 

cf I ere Ty 7
‘ r ol - . oa io re a
A 7 J v = a . e
a. es J Ye ; rf Pag a ler hal f r iad ‘ Pa" - ope
’ # « ven. ps4 > 7 are p 1 Pe aS), ee Se *
, [ p z e p ee i ie ryt foyer " 3 ne Tt °
‘ ‘ a ” ; i | 1 be a ’ i ; bn - 5 ' y
I r : ~ ° 4 - : * = hs - ’
¥ it yee f rl « , “ae > a Bt rs . 7 ’ : 4 R * le L 3 3
‘ Lh! ic « —_ m2 & PPG af “ £ ‘  - “
4 . 5
d s* " '
pl! ‘ :
“ ‘ +
+ og ,
‘9 * ~
7 — ae : - ;
— eee
ar a we . asd
7 ~ ee k = r - .
= y —
7 ‘
| .
|
ae
*
q

BY THE SEA”

 

Can

 

y ‘4% . a

y a — Vesa!
i iXXT _ HALIFAX, N: 8. OCTOBER 17, 1941

IG >

 

 

ERS MEET AXEMEN IN GRID CLASSIC.

DAL SPLITS WEEK-END TWIN BILL

 

 

+

GENERAL EXODUS
TO ACADIA PLANNED
DECISIVE CONTEST |

Tomorrow afternoon the Dal Tigers tangle with the Acadia |
Axemen at Kelly Field, in a game which, judging from all reports, should prove to be a gridiron classic. Each team goes
into the contest with one defeat. But, while Acadia has only
one victory to her credit, Dalhousie is the proud possessor of
two. The game is a decisive one with the winner taking over
possession of first place in League standing. The highly touted
Axemen suffered an upset at the hands of a powerful Saint
Mary’s squad last Saturday, whereas Dal met its Waterloo
against a strong Navy aggregation on Thanksgiving Day.

 

—© The Tigers possess a team on
paper that is potentially great
enough to win the City Rugby Title
without too much trouble, but te ;
date the performances turned in by
this squad has proven far from
satisfactory.

ni

Queen’s University
Celebrates
Centenary
C.U.P.—Queen’s University will

be the meeting place of men of international import as it celebrates its

j
> Te

STEUER ee ee

Ma - Over the Thanksgiving weekend the Tigers split even in
won and lost column, defeating Wanderers 8-3; then going
down to defeat 3-0 before the Navy. The above action took

place in the game with the Wanderers Saturday and shows
Forsyth being downed by Martel and Blackadar.

(Continued on Page Four)

 

 

 

 

Council Dance

_ Student Council Dance in the gym| 44. Dalhousians have responded R. C. N. V.R. COURSE | |iate Footbal! games will be ‘held.
next Thursday evening will set the, . : ich dial WATCH FOR Delegates from the various Dostage for the beginning of the So- PRC teR ek» ety Sb levod sein) MED BALL RUMORED minions of the Commonwealth, Uni
A little later this year than usual
but still better late than never, the

cial season at Dalhousie. The dance
will provide an opportunity for stu
' dents to let down their hair, or hairs

as the case may be, and forget all
about such gruesome things as war
and C.O.T.C., especially the latter.
At the helm as directors of the
affair will be Jack McKenzie, Louise
Bishop and Don Kirkpatrick. Dancing will be from 9 to 1 with Jerry
Naugler’s orchestra in attendance.

Students Donate
Blood

In answer to the appeal of the
Red Cross Blood Donors Service,

blood is not new to the University
students, particularly to those enrolled in medicine, for it has been
a regular practice for many of the
students to sell their blood for
regular hospital transfusions and in
this way, help to defray the costs
of their education.

It has been highly gratifying to

Centenary in gala Gaelic fashion.

Honoured

 

NO ACTION ON R.C.A.F.

TAKEN AT DALHOU

Men! Be on the lookout for
the Med Ball.
and is not an event to be overlooked. Get out that bib and
Be

It’s coming soon

tucker from the mothballs.
prepared!

 

SIE

*

No action has been taken as yet
at Dalhousie on the Air Training
scheme which the Hon C. G. Power
stated would go into force in Canadian Universities this fall.
Minister announced in September
that the universities would train air
crew up to a certain point in a way
similar to the military training

The Air |

 

Starting on Thursday, the sixteenth,
with a service of Remembrance and
Thanksgiving the celebration will
continue till Saturday night when a
dance reminiscent of those which
used to take place after Intercolleg
versities and numerous institutions
will all participate, each having
some particular function to perform.
| On Friday twenty-four Honorary
LI.D. and D.D. degrees will be conferred, with the Reverend Luther
Weigle, Dean, Divinity School, Yale
expressing for the D.D.’s; and Dr.
Camille Roy of Laval and the Hon.
J. L. Ralston for the L.D.’s_ their

 

 

Supper will be served in the lower those charged’ with the successful given by the C.O.T.C. appreciation for the general body. ce
; gym. Nothing unusual is planned, direction of the campaign and the Moot Court Finds Up to the present time Dalhousie In the evening a banquet will be held EN
a 3 but you had better be there because 5a agi a +g! a : han had‘ sib Getailed information on in the Pl ah. . eae “ M.A. STANLEY WaLKee
‘a e can ni et sone ol ee COM. tO 6Conave Ga the: scheme, -'T! ‘lit ducation | Kingston for the delegates an - 4. SLAL
‘ rey eee eer their blood to save lives in the war rdner Guilty er ee men Tae

   
  
   
   
 
 
   
    
   

these Freshettes may do. And boys,
if you are having any difficulty in
finding a date, here’s a tip. Perhaps this White Gal wears that red
coat because the hunting season is
in progress. Pretty feeble, isn’t it?
Blame it on Red Payne.


overseas. But their is a need for
even more volunteers to reach the
quota set for this campaign. Students are urged, if they feel able
to do so, to enroll as donors. The
next clinic will be held on Monday

 

This column ended last week with
the question, “What will happen to
Gardener?” Today, before Lord
Chief Justice A. J. MacLeod and
Lord Justices D. J. Chisholm and
A. J. Macdonald (the J’s Gardener

committee has made no official decision on the question. Dalhousie is
at present training all its male
students under the military training
scheme and it is felt that the introduction of other training programs would interfere seriously

President of King’s College, who receives the degree of Doctor of
Divinity (honoris causa) at the
Centenary of Queen’s Univetsity

today.

Specical Guests, amongst whom will |
be the Prime Minister and Hon, An- |
gus Macdonald. |

The following day will bring to a
close the Centenary Celebrations. It
will begin with a reunion of alumni
and students, and include greetings

 

The scene will next shift to Rich
might think stands for jobber-| with this established training pro-| by the two oldest alumni and by the 3 :
e : Mv a
mouth). Gardener was lightly | gram. Presidents of the Alumnae and | eroeon Ba ate tare ;
One Moment Please apenice: Rumors about the campus state| Alumni Associations. Afterwards Montreal Bulldogs wks Rodan oe

All those wishing to work on the Gazette this year are urged to
signify their intention to the News Eidtor as soon as possible.

x *

x *

President Stanley is at present visiting Victoria College in Toronto

where he is atending the investiture of a new president.

From there he

intends to journey to Queen’s University to witness Queen’s Centenary.

ma:

Bd *

* *

‘With the Freshie-Soph dance as a prelude of better things to come,

   
  

_ the campus social season was opened in grand style last Thursday evening. To the lilting strains of Jerry Naugler’s orchestra freshman met
_ freshette and vice-versa, while many an upperclassman took advantage

  
    
    
   
   
   
   
     
   
    
  
  
  
   
 
  
     

i:
a iw s

i

?
‘~.

of the event to bring their dancing legs from out the mothballs and trip

the light fantastic.

Chaperones for the evening were Major and Mrs.

R. V. Hogan and Mr. and Mrs. Burnette Ralston.

5 a Oe
a

 

*

x *

next Friday.

*  *

_ PROMOTIONS of Cadets F. H. Forbes and A. W. Gaudet to Corporals in the C.0.T.C. were posted-this week. Both men are in A Coy.
A meeting of the Student Council has been called for Monday eve_ fing. The business before the governing body will be that of budgets
__ and presentation of the report on the feasibility of an outdoor rink,

& _-‘Don’t forget about the Student Council Dance next Thursday night!

"en.
so
ly

* *

, Budgets for the forthcoming season were presented and discussed
; a meeting of the D.A.A.C. held last Sunday morning.

* *

_ Plans are being laid by the Freshmen class to conduct weekly dances
the Lower Gym every Friday night. It is hoped to start these funcgoing t Music will be supplied by a student orchestra

fee of fifty cents wil be charged to defray expenses.

* x * *

e ting of the Student Council executive was held on Tuesday
udgets for the forthcoming year were discussed preparatory

a “pre ele
al 1 é | aa

Ap

     

an ae
a 
a+. .
= al wat
2 yy ae ri
Ere Aas

  

ee

mted before the Student Council.

Charged with not being present |

the full time of the last session of
the Moot Court and making some
shameful if not immoral remarks
in contempt of the Moot Court, Gardener was found guilty on the first
charge and sentenced to appear as
junior counsel at the next session
of the Court. The second and more

vital charge will come up at the)

that the Navy would also like to
train some of the male students of

the campus as future officers in the
R.C.N.V.R.

The air training scheme as adopted at McGill will advance the
trainee past that stage of training
known in the Commonwealth Air
Training Plan as the Initial Training School and will prepare him for

 

honorary degrees will be conferred
on the Governor-General and Her
Royal Highness, Princess Alice, His
Excellency, the Earl of Athlone, as
Rector of Queen’s, will then deliver
his Rectorial address which will be
broadcast from 12,15-12.30.

| gonauts—will be held.

What a lively finale consisting of
a one-act play, fashion show—Hundred Years of Fashions at Queen's
and dance, Queen’s will enter its
101ist year.

 

 

next sitting. | Bombing and Gunnery school or

Again we will have to wait for | Elementary Flying Training School,
the answer to Gardener’s fate. The to train as air gunner or pilot.

&

DIrPO

ce

Dalhousie Institute of Public Opinion. ;

wheels of Justice grind exceedingly
slow. Will Gardener be coddled
again’? Is this a bit of fun indulged
in exclusively by third year students at the expense and naivity of
the freshman class.

The civil case was that of Mrs.
Nelson (Bette Davis) versus War
The qualifications set up at McGill and most of the other univer| sities giving the course are that the
‘student be over seventeen, be a
| British subject, is able to pass the
| RCAF Medical examination, and ex| press an honorable intention to join
the Air Force at the conclusion of

ner Brothers Pictures Incorporated.) his training period and university

The. facts were that Bette Davis
was held by a contract to make pictures for Warners alone. She tried
to make a picture in England and
Warners sued for an _ injunction.
The decision was for Miss Davis.
J. A. Lemoine, K.C., represented
Bette Davis, while A. MacIntosh
was the counsel for Warner Bros.
Like “Wild Bill” Ferguson, Chief
Sheriff and one source of amuse
ment in the Moot Court, would say,
“That’s all’.

a

year.

The R.C.A.F. training at McGill
will be carried on under and in conjunction with the C.O.T.C. In addition to the training received at the
university there will be two weeks
at Camp. The whole course is much
more intensive than the military
one and comprises 201 hours of
training. However, this will be cut
\down considerably if the candidate
has had military training and has
a fair knowledge of mathematics.

Priority of U. S. Supplies

The question was asked, “Should U. S. war supplies going
to England be given priority over those being sent to Russia?”
The consensus of opinion seems to be that Russia should get
supplies first, for 66 2-32% voted “No” to the above question.

Most Important Person in World Affairs Today?

In answering the question as to who is the most important
figure in world affairs at the present time, students voted 54%
for Winston Churchill, 27% for President Roosevelt, 14% for
Hitler, and 3% for Ernest Bevin. The remaining 2% is accounted for by a few individuals who suggested Red Payne.

Should “Lunatic Lobby” Be Continued?

On this question, 76% of the students quizzed voted that
“Lunatic Lobby”, the Gazette’s third page instalment nove!
featuring Major Hokum, Professor Binnet, and Rufus Ray’ «#
should be continued this year. 18% were non-committal ab
the entire matter, while the remaining 6%, being intellectun.,
did not read it anyway. Rufus Rayne himself, on being questioned, declared that Major Hokum and Professor Binnet were
getting too much publicity to suit him.

* ‘ —S- ee ie des
oh ate i = ae lt den
  
 
 
 
  
    
 

Oldest C
iy ter

  

THE GAZETTE those of
‘they represent the bpintee of

     

       

— — — = —. — = — ~~ = —

GALETTE STAFF ~

  

 
   


 

 
    

Bes
i} J *) a}
< The

___—- PHAT ARTS AND SCIENCE SOCIETY
a Ever since its organization a few years ago the Arts and

‘ its formation college spirit at Studley had sunk to what the
1d its of the time believed to be a new low, and it was hoped
: ya ke and some measure of enthusiasm might
? Nand: The ty has now been functioning for several
_years with no marked increase in what is vaguely termed “col— lege it’’. Now it is proposed that the society should be disaltogether. The Freshman class, or the more vocal
Mag en ‘of it, threatens to withdraw and claims that real spirit
ah must be looked | for in class organizations.

oh . gy at a8 undeniable that the history of the Arts and Science
_ Society is largely that of a failure. The very fact that several
_ classes have withdrawn support or are presently contemplating
' that move is sufficient proof that no great unity has been fostered among the various groups which constitute the faculty
_ of Arts and Science. Despite this failure, however, we cannot
_ see the proposal for a return to organization by classes alone
as anything but a backward step. It is not a solution of the
_ problem of disunity, but rather an admission that the problem
cannot be solved. Valueless as the Arts and Science Society
appears to be at present, it represents an idea which should
not be allowed to lapse—that of a Studley, united for action.

eae ‘Last year there was considerable agitation for a broader

Organization, which would take in not only the four Arts and
- Science classes, but also the Post-Graduate Society as well as
_ Commerce and Engineering. The scheme came to nothing,
_ largely on account of opposition from the latter-mentioned independent societies. This opposition, we believe, was derived
largely from a misunderstanding as to the nature of the pro' posed society. A survey conducted by “The Third Estate” revealed a startling variety of misconceptions, the commonest of
which was that the Commerce and Engineering Societies would
a be abolished altogether. Such was far from the purpose of the
J ACO Studley Society. The new organization was not in_ tended to supplant existing ones, but merely to supplement
_ them so as to weld several small groups into one large body
- eonscious of its substantial unity.

Be strategic moment for the inauguration of such a venAi ture as this may have passed. It may no longer be possible to
_ unite the various organizations at Studley. It is surely not
__ necessary, however, to scrap the one factor for unity remainoe ing. If there has been slackness in the leadership of the
society, that can be rectified. What is important is that Stud-|
ae ley should not dissolve once more into classes having no con' Nection with each other outside of membership in the same
university.

ee The sort of “unity” which gives rise to bloc voting and
has i - the maintenance of Students’ Council elections is worse than
Soe Rs at all, but the various classes and associations which

grouped at "Studley have enough common interests to merit
a common organization.

 
 

  

 

  
  

"1
fen q

 

?
ree t

Rec THOSE COMING BYE-ELECTIONS

be Se It has always been a difficult matter to arouse interest in
__ student elections at Dalhousie. To achieve that with regard to
@ _ bye-elections is just about an impossibility. The average turnbs ‘out. at opal is probably less than half of the eligible

 

 
  

on his campus to vote anny on any choice of

ag can aidates Tn an annual Students’ Council election there may,
hike ~ by some lucky chance, be one contest in which he can vote in
Be a reasonably intelligent way. With but two names on the
Rae pees his chances are considerably lessened.

it

Students should bear in mind, however, that they have a
RS dardeler stake in the Students’ Council, and that a candidate
elected by the vote of a few students amid general apathy is
Hs "seated « on the Council just as firmly as the one who gains office
_in @ campaign which arouses some interest and in which almost
@veryone votes.

© bye-elections are scheduled for the near future. One

"y is is for the Post-Graduate Society and interests but a small numFs of people who should be presumed by this time to be capable
é omer judgment. The other is in the Faculty of Arts and
| ence to select a successor to John Windebank, who has
_joined the ranks of the post-Grads. This faculty has the repu
| ation of being of all faculties the most difficult to interest in
- eampus affairs. It is also the faculty which has the greatest
\ Taeaaber of students with time to devote to student governPp ment, and the one whose courses might be expected to cultivate
the broadest interest in outside activities. It is to be hoped
oy a Arts and Science will belie its reputation for lethargy
: HS and show real interest in the administration of the business
. ae the student body. ‘There are students of great ability with- e = . bel If the student body constitutes a good democthe ablest of them will be selected for a berth on
‘Tf, on the other hand, personal considerations
sually called “playing politics” result in a poor
lec students are ee learning at university

 
    
  

eas:

Me | y

 

   

  
   
  
  
 
 
 
 
  

  
 
 
     
    
   
   
    

   

       
  
     
  
  
 
   
     
      
     

| well-known fact.

ence Society has been a subject of controversy. At the time

aT
ia

SS fw
:

_ The editor of the “Gazette” expressed the aspirations of Dalhousie’s
weekly publication last week when he wrote in his editorial, “The ‘Gazette’
hopes to be a vehicle for serious literary expression for the students of
Dalhousie.” Your Literary editor heartily endorses that statement and,
in applying it to this column, would delete only one word: serious.
There are many students at Dalhousie who write for amusement, because
they like to write. Some of them compose poetry, greater numbers write
verse, others express their views in essays, and a few with short stories.
These are the students whose cooperation is most valuable to a literary
editor; these are the men and women to whom this appeal is addressed.

A literary column is essentially cooperative. No editor can foist his
own ¢ompositions upon the student public for two consecutive weeks and
satisfy his readers or himself. His work is to read, correct and select
from the manuscripts submitted te him for publication. His work can be
accomplished only with the assistance of a large number of people who
contribute their compositions for publication.

That students are a modest, nay, even shy, group of people is a
The majority of them, regardless of their experience
with school publications, shrink at the word ‘author’, and slink away
from any suggestion that they write out and publish some of their pet
ideas. The most delicate appeals for contributions to the literary column
of the Gazette have been known to produce nothing more than selfconscious smiles and embarrassed denials of the offense of writing things.
That attitude is unhealthy, particularly in students at a university that
enjoys the reputation of having one of the finest English departments in
Canada. It is even more detrimental to the well-being ofa literary

column which requires well over a thousand words of English compositions each week.

  
     
     
  
  

“What's the most popular way to address an officer?”
“On a parcel of Sweet Caps!”

  

SWEET CAPORAL CIGARETTES

“The purest form in which tobacco can be smoked.”’

Many forms of literary expression are acceptable for publication in
this column, the essay, or article, being one of the commonest. Last
year’s literary editor adopted a topical scheme in planning this¢eolumn,
and solicited and published an article each week on one of the fine arts.
Contributions of the same kind will be most welcome again this year. If
you are especially interested in painting, music, sculpture, architecture,
or any other specific art or craft, write an essay on the subject and
submit it for publication in the literary column. Regardless of how little
you know about your subject, if it interests you then you must know a
little more about it than some other people. If another student is better
informed, let us hope that student will have the energy to answer your
article, and give us all an opportunity to profit thereby.

The subject matter for articles or essays is unlimited. The only
requirements are that it be within the limits of such censorship as is
imposed by a Canada at war, and that it be of a type that will not interfere or over-lap other features of the “Gazette’’.

The literary editor intends to provide at least one book review each
week. There is never a surplus to choose from though doubtless many
students complete each week the reading of books about which others
would like to hear. A book review is a short composition, requiring less
effort in writing than the longer essays and articles. It requires a skill
which can be developed by practice and observation and it occupies a very |
definite place in any literary publication.

The ability to write verse is a gift, yet it is not a rare gift, for many
people possess it. If you are one of these lucky people have the grace
to share your gift with others. Your opinion of your own compositions
may not be very high, since it is formed, no doubt, by comparison with
the works of the finest poets the English language can boast. It would
be strange and marvellous if Dalhousie campus should produce a poet to
rank with Shakespeare, Blake, Coleridge or T. S. Eliot, yet it would be
far stranger if there were none to surpass Edgar A. Guest. Poems are
always acceptable and your literary editor will be glad to receive as many
$ you may send.

A particular effort was made last year to foster the writing of short
stories. The effort met with some success and several stories were published in this column. The short story is the most popular of modern
literary achievements. It is the product of our modern world and the
abiding joy of popular periodicals. Short stories are read and enjoyed
by more people than any other form of literature.

The exercise of writing brings its own reward, but for those students
who are especially interested in winning gold “D’s” the literary column
| has an attractive lure. The articles, essays, poems, reviews and_ short
stories published here are judged by the editor in consultation with two
members of the English department and awarded points, to a maximum
of five for each single contribution. The points are given for literary
merit and thirty such points qualify the contributor to receive a gold
literary “D”. This is an award well worth winning.

Every year there are inquiries as to how one goes about contributing
material to the “Gazette”. Here are the directions your literary editor
wishes you to follow. Please write or type your contribution on one side
ot the paper only. Leave a margin on each side and at the bottom of
each sheet. If you wish to have your name-published with your contribution, simply sign it at the bottom of the last sheet. Your initials or a
pseudonym will be used if you prefer. In order to be eligible for the
points necessary to win a literary “D’”, the editor must know your name.
This information is strictly confidential.

Contributions may be given to the editor at any time, or mailed to
Shirreff Hall. For those who know where to find the “Gazette” room in

the Arts building there is a third way open: slip your contribution under
the door.

English Girl Looks at Dalhousie

As charming as she is pretty is Miss Margaret Siriol
Lewis, London, one of the English freshettes studying at Dalhousie this year. Her Welsh parentage, which accounts for
the name Siriol, which correctly enough means “happy’’. She
was one of the fifty Edgehill girls who came out to Canada

a year, and received previous schooling in Roedean Private
School.

She hales from Blackheath, which
was the stopping place for Wat
Tyler on his trip to London. She
had had no bombs dropped on her
before coming to Dalhousie, though
Blackheath had the first air raid
warning of the air raid on London.

When the war was declared she
had chickenpox, and listened to
Neville Chamberlain while confined;
happily, by the time Italy entered
the war, she was back at school.
She has visited Belgium, which is a
very low country (topographically,
and not Leopoldically), and saw
Dunkirk from the sea. At the time
of the magnificent evacuation, she
and her fellow-countrymen were on
‘tenter-hooks.”

She likes the movies, but has no

   
 

   
   
 
    
 

FARMERS’
CHOCOLATE MILK

Is Stimulating ... It Peps You Up!

  
  
  
    
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
   
   
  
 
    
   

“TASTE THE DIFFERENCE”

The Nova Scotia Technical College

Offers Engineering Courses in
CIVIL, ELECTRICAL, MECHANICAL and MINING
Twenty Free Scholarships of $75.00 each for Nova Scotia Students

To Dalhousie Students with Engineering Diplomas
Modern Equipment, Instructing Staff with Individual Experience
Write or call for Calendar or advice to

F, X. SEXTON, President

 

A Word of

Welcome

After any Show

Birks extends to new- pe) Se", I
comers and returning
students a cordial welcome to bring their

Before any Meal

gift problems to Birks.
Come and visit — even
if you have no problem.

Think of ...

The
GREEN LANTERN

Henry Birks & Sons
LIMITED
Registered Jewellers,
American Gem Society
Barrington St. - Halifax, N.S.

~~

 

 

Dalhousie Gnibersity

Halifax, Nova Scotia

Maintains a High Standard of Scholarship.
Includes all the principal Faculties of a University.
Largest Staff, Libraries, Laboratories in Eastern Canada.

Arts and Science Faculty

Degrees: B.A., B.Se., B.Com., B.Mus., Phm. B.
Diplomas: Music, Engineering, Pharmacy, Education.

Four Year Advanced Courses in Classics, Mathematics,
Modern Languages and History.

special favorites among the male or
female stars. British pictures are
preferable. She didn’t like cosmetics at first, and why should she,
for, like all English girls, she possesses a beautiful complexion. As
for the brand of her lipstick —
you'll have to find that out yourself.

Canadian boys she does not consider as well mannered as_ the
English.

Like all Englishmen, she is slightly tired of the song “There'll Always Be An England”.

She can speak Welsh, and left
your reporter with a Welsh name of
56 letters, which she reeled off just
as fast as a tobacco auctioneer, and
with the same amount of intelligibility.

Graduate Courses of recognized Sending,

leadi
of M.A. MSc, eading to degrees

Courses—preparatory to Professional Faculties.
Course in Public Administration.

Many valuable scholarships,

on entrance and through
the courses.

The Professional Faculties
in
Law, Medicine, Dentistry, enjoy an unexcelled reputation.

 

Inclusive Fees: in the B.A. course,

avera b
in the B.Sc. course, ge about $160 a year.

about $190 a year.

Residence
Shirreff Hall, residence for women.
Carefully supervised residential faculties for men.

   
  
 
  
   
 

  
      
  
     

 
 

  

ins

me _- HOW TO ACQUIRE TECHNIQUE ©
For the Frosh, one very important Aspect of College Life

the acquisition of Technique. This is, however, not what
_ you thought, but simply the Essentials of Laboratory Eti_ quette. This, for the Frosh, is revealing, but he will learn, in

* tin me that “Technique is Essential”. This is an Unassailable

   
    
    
   
 

  
  
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
   
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
  

ae To the uninitiated, a Laboratory is a thing of Glamor.
_ This is, however, merely the propaganda of various Motion
__ Picture Corporations. Do not be carried away by these False
Delusions. The Laboratory is primarily designed to Explode
_ Qutwards, and is thus Thoroughly Practical. So, also is the (glam- orous) assortment of Apparatus, being scientifically designed
to hold the heat, and never to stand up Unless Clamped. It is
ae a transparent, to enable one to see when things are ready

 

Sih
i
j

     
 
  
  
 
  
 
   
 
  
 

   
 

_ to simmer down, blow up, peter out, etc. You will presently
discover that everything Has its Use, if used properly. Thus
one must develop a high degree of skill in handling these
things. That is Technique. | _ In the Chemistry Laboratory, Technique is especially required. The most difficult to acquire is the Tap Technique. On
entering the Laboratory, one is confronted with a dazzling
array of Tape, Spigots, Faucets, etc. These are all intended
for a purpose. They are to give you a Thorough Training.

% Seize your Bunsen Burner by its rubber tube. Attach it
to the first Tap you see, and turn it on. If a lighted match
_ fails to produce any result, turn it off again. Try another Tap.
r If the same result occurs, you can safely assume you are on
| «the Water Line. (Note: Under no circumstances ‘invite the
instructor to examine the Burner, and turn on Tap. This is
| Bad Technique). Keep trying different Taps, until the desired
__ result is achieved. In time your experience will enable you to
| do this in Record Time. You are acquiring Technique.
Another important Technique taught in the Chemistry Lab
| is How to Heat Glass. After you have acquired sufficient
}. Tap Technique, you will be’ able light your Burner. Do this..
| =~ Now, take a short piece of Glass. By holding this in the flame,
|: you will presently discover it has softened. Keep holding it
there until it Melts. Take another piece, and proceed as before.
wa This time, however, remove it from the flame as it becomes
) red. Easy, isn’t it? Set it down on the bench, and, before the
smoke and fumes get too thick, pick it up again. It is unadvisable to hold it under the Tap to cool it. (Note: Do not pass
bs hot glass to the Instructor. This is not only Bad Technique,

but will create a Poor Impression).

Having reached this point, you are now ready to aspire to
other, more difficult Techniques. You will presently learn how
to spread all your apparatus in the Greatest Possible Space.

- This will take constant practice, and will evoke some argument
amongst your bench mates. Do not let them discourage you,
as this is a very important Technique to master. Be persistent,
it will pay. One advantage of this is that you will quickly learn
to distinguish your neighbor’s apparatus from your own, and
your own scratched or dirty Beakers as his....

The culmination of all Technique is in the art of Taking
Readings.. This is the highest form, and possibly the deadliest,
since you can Never Be Right. This seems to be a Foregone
Conclusion to the Instructor. To perform this, you fill your
(watertight) apparatus with water, and then guess how much
is in it. You then tabulate your results, show them to the
instructor, and do them over again. This is an Unavoidable
Laboratory Proceeding, and due to the Foul Eyesight of the
instructor.

In taking readings, you must, at all cost, avoid Parallex
Error, Perilous Udder, and, above all, Previous Ether, which
emits harmful Fumes... These often cause that Uncomfortable
Laboratory complaint, Beaker’s Disease, which causes you to
mutilate everyone’s apparatus other than your own. This is
not only Contagious, but costly.

As your time in the Laboratory increases, so will your
Technique. By degrees you will learn not to swallow what you
get in your mouth while using the Pipette, and to point a Test
Tube at someone else while you heat it. Thus will you become
a Complete Technician, to your everlasting credit.

  

    

  

  

  
    
   
   
  
   

     

  
  
 
   
   
    
    
   
  
    
   
 
   

 

What Do You Think
of the Mentor?

Cyril King, 3rd Year Arts:
“Tt tends to make the Freshmen

3° _ © Jean Weinstein, 2nd Year Science: a roan ay Tome. “At seems like S
Wig: eR seiiiea tae Td ike. to | SDS hand Meewn out ito them.
_~-* write it myself, but on the whole I + oe 2
think it’s pretty corny, and I think| Ro) Wickwire, 3rd Yr. Engineering:
“a that the March of Grime, like the) “J wouldn’t know. I haven’t had
s Pig Sty of last year, is concerned | that much time to waste.”

too much with one clique.” (The x +

' reason should be obvious.—Ed.)
* * %

4 Bob McCleave, 3rd Year Arts:

ss #What is the Mentor—that damn
Deel thine about the College professors

eS and the Students? If you’re quoting

~ me fully, I think it’s swell, if not the

original opinion still stands.”

: * * *

\%

Jack MacNamara, 2nd Year Arts:

The which? Indeed, there is
much to be said for it, though I’m
afraid it isn’t printable. I never
was any good in Greek.

* a *

Joe Froschkonig, Ist year Pre-Med:

Ya, alles ist vom schnee bedeckt.

. : ‘ (Which, in a literal translation,
- Josie Freshette, Ist Year Arts: meaaak ties Wigan) ots a dataegial

I don’t think it’s so hot. I tried thi
| ing).

some of the suggestions out on Pro- eae lg

fessor Jewitt, and the nasty old) 42,01 Herrinbon, Ph.D.:

thing gave me an E on my very first) |, my estimation, this master
theme. 8 piece of English composition deHe apie ewes serves much credit. It will be read

John Rogers, 1 1-3 Yrs Engineering:| .ith interest by future generations,

“Are you going to quote me. It) 414 probably Binnet will give a

: _ stinks.” . , class in it next year. ;

 

press.

7]; who caught a bucket of water—just
the water, of course—? We bet that
Dave Burgoyne won’t try to teach
anyone to play poker again. Finally
we'll remember F. M. MacKay, who
is always there when the bell rings
—yes! we mean the dinner bell.
Oops!—we almost missed something
—all thanks to Ralph Lewis who
worked SO hard as our instructor.
Around the Drafting-Room.

_ We think we know why Joe Louis
is retiring—you should see Rus
Webber’s right.

   
   

No one knows what the short
skirt will be up to next. —

 
 
  
   
   
  

Angry Pa: “What do you mean
by bringing my daughter in at this
hour of the morning?”

Gay Blade: “Had to be at work
at 7.

CASINO

Deanna DURBIN

Well boys (and girls), here we

are late as usual. Our humblest
apologies, but we just realized that
the summer was over—so let’s go to

    
 

Highlights and Lowdowns
On Survey-Camps.

Gee! it must be great to be a lover
—ask MacKenzie and Mussett—the

   
  
 
    

girls in Truro still remember them.| Does anyone know WHY? ? ? and

Altho’ we think the Dal crowd is| MacKenzie sings “I only want to Charles LAUGHTON
pretty quiet this year, two people|start a flame in your heart?” A with

tried to liven it up. Cupid fanned] certain freshman didn’t get home Robert CUMMINGS
Wiswell completely while Webber|from the Freshie-Soph dance until —in—

tried to eae his aa and still| the wee hours weren’t so wee—how “IT STARTED
feels a bit sprucy. Then there’s Bob| about it Gerald? The airport seems ee

 
 

NOW PLAYING

OXFORD

Friday and Saturday

MARX BROTHERS in
“THE BIG STORE”

’eause the beard used to scare every-|. Till next time, don’t be too good,

—poor Wick had to stay in ten interest Mac Campbell so much.
And who was the innocent guy | for we’ll get you anyway.

one,

       
 
    
    
      

 

 

The March of Grime

Jack MacKenzie (erstwhile
(“Lightning”) is doing his traditional bit by the freshettes. Let’s see
now, two years ago we seem to remember a certain Moncton incident,
and then “Gummy”, and Kate.
“Lightning” is sure striking in the
same place this time.

% * 3% a ae *

And there’s Charlie. We hear that
he is again one of the brotherhood
of Freelancers. This only goes to
show that you aren’t a married man

until you’re married, after all.
* * 2

Lex Roy may have had a qualm
or two on Monday, during the game.
The arrival of our Serg. Howard)
almost threw a monkey wrench in
the glue-pot. Norrie was having
difficulties locating her escort. May
be he’s getting smarter, too.
* * BS

This correspondent wonders what
was being celebrated in that meeting
place of the elite “Frank’s”, last
Tuesday night. This is the first sign
of homesickness, or something, we’ve

seen so far. ee ee

Why is it that Don K. has finally
made an impression on a freshette?
Could it be that Don knows a certain redhead?

He * 4

—aAnd, talking about colours, we
wonder if Doug Robertson has discovered why the girls wear dark

glasses when he is around!
7 ii

Advice to Fred Russell: An
alarm clock would be useful when
you spend the evenings at Shirreff
Hall.

    

Monday and Tuesday

“RINGSIDE MAISIE”
and
“Angels With Broken Wings”

Wednesday and Thursday
“MILLION DOLLAR BABY”

an
“WAGONS ROLL AT NIGHT’

ORPHEUS

Mon., Wed. Oct. 20-22 inc. |
“DEADLY GAME”
“DOWN IN SAN DIEGO”

In talking about Gum last week,
it seems that we missed the most
important point of all. Revolting
as the spectacle of the vibrating jaw
is at the best of times, the sight of
matted hair was almost more than
we could Stand. And we can stand
plenty.

Currently popular seem to be
these affairs at Sunnyside. . Our
Power’s girl, Frau White sure gets
around. And did’ja see those green
felt pants at the football game,

* Be ae

We wish to apologize to Kissy, for
even mentioning her in last week’s
March of Grime. After all, she tried
pretty hard, but henceforth she, and
other unmentionables shall not grace
these columns, unless we have the
space.

Thursday, Friday, Saturday
Oct. 23 to 25 ine.
“GERAT GUNS”

“LAST OF DUANES”
Monday, Tuesday, Wednes.
Oct. 27 to 29 ine.
“ICE COPADES”
“NIAGARA FALLS”

Four Expert Barbers to Improve
Your Appearance and no
long waiting at
JACK MITCHELL’S
BARBER SHOP
41 SPRING GARDEN ROAD

oe Ed %

Some consternation seems to have |
been caused at the Pi Phi formal on
Wednesday nite. The sudden appearance of a “skeleton at the feast” accounted for much confusion, . We
pause to reflect on the connotation
of the word “Social” when used im |
connection with certain female organizations. Maybe they try too |
hard.

 

“IF YOU WANT TO SEE
WELL, SEE WALLACE”

THOMAS WALLACE
SONS AND DAUGHTERS
SIGHT SPECIALISTS

Y.M.C. A. Building Halifax
Phone B-6881

———————

* * *

The freshmen still have the timerity to complain about the general inefficency of their initiation, and the
initiation committee. It is to be
hoped that they will benefit from
their lack to aspire to better things
themselves. D. G. please note.

 

 

 

Grime marches on.

 

    

 

» Rufus Rayne From Rangoon «

 

Episode 1—The Year of Jubila, , when it was discovered that the
or, That Man’s Here Again! dummy was none other than Rayne
The shades of night were FAS! himself. The everlasting dummy
fast, the rain was gently tittering| had been framed by the malignant
down the window shades, the Rayne! de Pester, his bosom yet burning
was recouched in dignified solitude) with hate which could be put into
in Lester de Pester’s waste-basket,| words even by Prof. Binnit.
while frenzied freshmen were read- Another and even more grating
ing copies ef immeral magazines sound could be heard as Doc Howland receiving tearful advice from) ing was driving stethoscopes into
Wilbur P. Fizzleque, the eternal. 'the breasts of yet more freshmen
Said Fizzleque: “But for the Gazoot| and turned cruel and_ burning
I never could have lived through| fil....s upon them, so that they
my college career .. .” said “99” in disgust, while Mar—it
Just then could be heard the| drove crushing mallets against their
sound of trampling hoofs, the, psychological reactions (i.e. their
mournful soliloquy of companies of, knees).

 

  

     
       
   
      
   
  
     
     
     

A.T.C.ers cursing under their; A whole gang of experts could be
breaths. | observed in the clinic dissecting
eee | rabbits, formulating the results of

|

The whip descended yet again as_
Major Hokum gleefully prodded the
Sarjeants, major and minor, the
Corporals, acting and lance, with
wild shouts of hypocritical glee. A
vapour floated around, rivalling in
intensity that from Attwood’s
BOILING ESSENCE, but it was
not that of BOILING ESSENCE.

The dummy recoiled in horror as
he was bayoneted by a wild Cape
Bretoner being left-turned by Sargeant-Major Balaam. The horror of
Balaam and Hokum was increased

certain delicate human tests, raising blood-pressures, while outside
could be heard the gentle murmur
of a thousand hearts. These persons,
looking so genial, are actually
friends known as “medstudents’’,
some of them human, some of them
in the 8rd and 4th years. O death,
where is thy stiff? O grave, where
is the cadaver?

oso
Is Wilbur P. Fizzleque in Class

E? Will Rufus ever appear in the
Gazette again? Wait and see.

a ok
ot Uy ?

=o iy

5 sole Pe

Starting Friday, October 17
for Six Days

TYRONE POWER
BETTY GRABLE

cdr HED as
A Yank in The R. A. F.
“DUNKIRK RELIVED”

  
 
    
  
  
  
   
   
  
  
   
  
  

Friday — Saturday — Monday
October 24, 25, 27

SONJA HENIE
JOHN PAYNE

Glen Miller and his Orchestra
—in— .

Sun Valley Serenade

Carrick

A Famous Alayers Theatre

Tomorrow — Monday — Tuesday
“BELLE STARR”
in Technicolor
Randolph Scott & Gene Tierney

and
“HARMON OF MICHIGAN”
Tom Harmon — Anita Louise

Wednes. — Thurs. — Friday
“THE SMILING GHOST”

Wayne Morris — Brenda Marshall
and
“BUY ME THAT TOWN”
Lloyd Nolan - Constance Moore

THE

ROSEDALE NURSERIES
Y.M.C.A. Building — B-7530
381 Barrington Street
31 Spring Garden Rd. — B-6440

We Specialize in CORSAGES
and All Kinds of Design Work

MacLeod - Balcom
LIMITED
O
DRUGGISTS

Headquarters for Students
Requirements

LJ

HALIFAX - SHEET HARBOUR
KENTVILLE, N. S.

 

FOLLOW THE REST OF
THE BOYS
FOR YOUR FOOTWEAR
TO
SHANE’S SHOE STORE
Special Discount to Students
397 BARRINGTON ST. B9144

 

  

 
  
 
   
  

  
    

 
  
   
      
 
  
  
   
   
  

 

 
    

 

  
    
    
   
    
  
   

 

 
NAVY GAME
Playing on the home field on Monday, Thanksgiving Day, the Tigers

found little to be thankful about. By
falling before the Navy to the tune

s| of a 3-0 score (English I students

er: when Martell of
ee 7 the Dal

please note example of mixed met
aphor) Dalhousie gave every team
in the league a chance to win the
| championship.

Good football was not in evidence
as the Dal squad passed up chance
after chance to enter the scoring
column and sew up the match. Students of the game, in post-mortems,
have pointed out a number of errors
by the Dalhousians which proved

costly. Some say that the three
quarter line was playing straightway across the field, and not at an
angle as they should have. Others
say that the Dal backfield had ‘“‘jitters”, and that kicks were too late

,| and too few. Whatever the trouble,

¢ = trips to the shad> _ Wanderers’ goalposts.
were: added uy McLean’s

aa Camp at Seabright Hotel
n€ _ week-end of October 25-26.
ig to present plans, cars
| ve Halifax as soon after

z Fe wiicla hi in the middle of
open ioon. The afternoon and
-evenin; ; will be occupied in getting
eksinks d, games and then discus
s to ‘be led by Mr. Bilheimer on
su ject of Christian leadership
ad out of the universities, under
itle les Sal for Whom,
the item, talking,

. and = ne

ee _and occupy an
e for desertion, cars will

the e two o’clock parade.
ae will end by the

_ taking charge of the evenservice in St. Andrew’s United

as interested in the S.

1ow Rev. Hugh MacMillan,

ominion Secretary, who will |.
br ight and also at several
on the campus.

ossibilities of a larger

in usual, the camp promly successful.

‘th ‘you must

the gold and black fifteen were unable to match the first-half try tallied by Blades of the Navy, and the
final 3-0 score was more or less representative of the play: Navy not
too good, and Dal not quite as good.

i Players
ene by Dal

A badminton team from H.M.C.
S. Kings was defeated by Dalhousie
in a game played at Studley last
evening 11-6. The Navy training
school team was augmented by lady
players from Dalhousie Alumnae
Badminton Club. A number of other
exhibition games will be played by
the two teams during the winter
months.

Men’s Doubles: L. Hannon and C.
Myers (D) d. E. Colquhoun and J.
Humphries, 15-5, 15-12; O. Chapman
and R. Lewis (K) d. K. Boite and
Ts Matthews, 15-6, 18-13; C. Myers
and G. Smith (D) d. 0. Chapman
and R. Lewis, 15-10, 15-12; D. Gibson and F. Mountain (D) d. J. M.
Tessier and partner, 15-6, 15-10.

Mixed Doubles: J. M. Tessier and
A. Longard (K) d. B. Coombes and
3B. Hartling, 15-8, 17-15; G. Smith
and G. Longard (D) d. Latier and
D. Zwicker, 15-4, 15-10; D. Coombes
and E. Parker (D) d. E. Colquhoun
and D Zwicker, 15-8, 15-10; D.
Large and D. MacDonald (D) d. A.
Black and Z. Horsfall, 15-10, 12-15,
15-5; Prof. C. Wamsley and M. Remillard (D) d. I. Williams and partner, 15-7, 15-6; J. T. Humphries and
E. Burns (K) d. G. Mosher and M.

Moore, 15-7, 15-0; G. Teasdale and |
M. Parkes (D) d. B. Latier and G.
Longard, 15-2, 6-15, 15-11; J. M.
Tessier and A. Longard (K) d. D.
Gibson and B. Hartling, 15-12, 1814; L. Hannon and M. Remillard
(D) d. I, Williams and partner 1512, 15-8; J. Humphries and Z. Horsfall (K) d. K.Boite and D. MacDonald, 15-17, 15-3; G. Teasdale and
M. Parkes (D) d. D. Latier and G.
Longard, 15-2, 6-15, 15-2; D. Large
and Z. Horsfall (D) d. Mosher and
E. Burns, 15-10, 6-15, 15-7.

* Our Definition

Bachelor: A man who didn’t have
a car when he went to college.

First Freshie: “Back from your
holiday, eh? Feel any change?”

Second Ditto: “Not a penny!”

Regarding women’s styles: the
girl of yesteryear had less resistance but more insulation!

Do you neck? ;
That’s my business!
Oh, a professional.

She: “Doctor, what’s the best way
rere. get a wart off my hands?”
He: “Shoot him or marry him.”

. SB 8 _ ARE
SPORT re

a AL. MacLEOD

Aren’t we the happy college students! Shucks, who

wouldn’t be happy with the Tigers tied for first place in the
City Rugby League, and the big Acadia game coming up this
Saturday? Yes, sir, the happy old gold and black have won
two of the three games they’ve played. And not only that—
they’ve scored fourteen whole points in those three games and
have only had a mere nine chalked up against them. And
what’s more—they’ve kicked one convert—and that’s really
something to sit up and talk about. Of course they’ve tried
quite a few field goals, and haven’t managed to get the ball
between the bars yet, but, after all, who wants to mess around
with field goals and penalty kicks? That’s kid stuff. But
there’s always a great turnout for practices. Pretty good, anyway. On Wednesday half the squad was out, and even if most
of them were intermediates—no matter.
team.

A bit more practice might help a lot, though. It’s tough
when you see a team that you know is capable of really great
football get out there dropping passes, muffing kicks, and, instead of winning by a landslide score, barely manage to scrape
through with a win. It has been said (but we don’t vouch for
the truth of this one) that shortly after a practice scrimmage
began the other day, half a dozen chaps panted over to Burney
and chanted poetically:

“But wait a bit, one moment, please,”’

And quickly down they sat)
“For some of us are out of breath,
And all of us are fat.”

As we go into the Acadia game, Dal and Navy have each
won two games and lost one. St. Mary’s has won two and lost
two. Acadia has won one and lost one. And Wanderers have
won none and lost two. For us, this game on Saturday is what
might be termed “crucial”. But, win or lose, the League will
not be decided until the last shin is kicked, and it rather behooves the Tiger to get out there and snarl six days a week,
and not only on Saturdays.

* % * ok
In the realm of interfaculty sports there seems to be little
or nothing doing. Some people think that the average undergraduate doesn’t have the time or the inclination for rugby.
Further, it seems that the gridiron is being occupied so much
with Varsity rugby, St. Mary’s practices, and Dal C.0.T.C.,
that there wouldn’t be time for interfaculty or intramural
rugby. But even if it is found inadvisable to operate a schedule, the D.A.A.C. might investigate the possibility of staging
a few “grudge” games between Law and Medicine, Arts and
Engineers, or what have you. (We daren’t say “Arts and
Science’).
* oe * Ke
“Intellectual Snobbery” Department: Have you heard of
the Cape Breton sportswriter who said that after last year’s
hockey season the Glace Bay team’s debts were ‘magnanimous”? Don’t be surprised if you learn that anybody who

wears glasses is “bespeckled”’.

* * * *

Corn Department (fresh from the cob and straight from
the elbow): “Thumbs up” is the slogan for this Saturday. (The
better for hiteh-hiking, my dears.) Until then, we'll be C.O.
T.C.-ing you.

(Continued from page one)

We've got quite a/|

ey
ia oe

s U N
Cétipes Rink
Is Mooted

In recent years there has been a

great deal of agitation for the establishment of an outdoor rink on
the Southern edge of the football
field. With the advent of the new
Student Council President, this oftmooted scheme seemed destined to
attain fruition. Recently, however,
when the plan was placed before the
Student Council it met with the approval of only a small majority of
the student representatives. The
supporters of the scheme proposed
that a committee be designated to
investigate its possibilities which
they claim will by far outweigh, the
inconveniences attendant upon the
system now in operation whereby all
skating sessions, hockey practices
and Interfaculty games must be
held at one or the other of the local
arenas where exorbitant prices are
charged for only short periods of
time. In support of the scheme, it
is declared that expenses incurred
by the hockey teams and in Interfaculty hockey games would be cut
to a minimum, while the upkeep
and original outlay of the proposed
rink would not be excessive. <According to President MacDonald, the
advantages of the scheme would be
numerous. Skating sessions for the
students would be posible much
more frequently than has been the
custom. Attendance at hockey practices would be increased because of
the close proximity of the gymnasium and locker facilities and keener
interest would be displayed in Interfaculty hockey. The time factor is
an element that must also be con
sidered and has been one of the.

principal obstacles with which Dal
housie hockey enthusiasts have had
to contend. With a rink close to
home, however, it is declared that
more students than ever before will
have the opportunities to participate
in this truly Canadian sport. According to MacDonald, the Student
Council is out to give the students
their ten dollars worth this year and
he considers the erection of such an
outdoor rink as a movement which
would meet with the approval of
the great majority of those on the
campus.

After prolonged discussion the
Council selected a Committee to Investigate the feasability of the proposed rink in regard to original expenditure and maintenance. The
report of the Committee is to be
read at the next meeting of the
Council to be held this coming
Monday and upon its findings the
success of winter sport at Dal depends.

I

of the oportunity to make the trip.
A dance is to be held after the game

Dre e Oct tober 17

K BY TARS”

Cubs Play Navy

The. Dalhousie Cubs played a
double-header with the Navy intermediates, losing 6-0 on Saturday and
winning 3-0 on Monday. By Monday the Cubs had recovered from
their stage fright which cost them
Saturday’s game, and with Wiswell
and Rogers leading the way, the
junior squad turned the tables on
the tars.

Intermediate line-up for the two
games was: Zatzman, Rogers, Wiswell, McLellan, Robertson, Bauld,
Bagnall, Smith, Mercer, McLean,
Hanna, Dunsmore, Cox, Roy, Fetterley.

Meeting war-time needs

The new

“VICTORY
POLICY”

Patriotism demands that you in.
vest regularly in War Savings ~
Certificates. Yet you need insurance protection too—at an
age when rates are still conveniently low.

The new “Victory Policy” developed by The Mutual Life of
Canada enables you to meet both
these essential needs. Premiums
are exceedingly low for a fixed
period of years, while you are
investing in War Savings Certificates. And even at the end of
this period, when the rate is
adjusted, the premium is still
lower than you would normally
pay. You will be able to use the
proceeds of your War Savings
Certificates as they mature to
pay the premiums.

Permanent protection

The “Victory Policy” is a permanent plan of life insurance.
It has been specially prepared
to meet your ieamedinee needs
and to provide future protection as
well, The new “Victory Policy”
is available to every adult who
is insurable... and is especially.
attractive to students.

Ask your nearest Mutual Life rep
resentative for complete details of

this plan. Or write to The Mutual

Life of Canada, Waterloo, Ont.
THE

MUTUAL [IFE

ESTABLISHED 1869
“Owned by the Policyholders”

135 HOLLIS STREET
29 COBURG ROAD

Faders Drug Stores Drug Stores

This third week slipping by, we)

see a slight lull in girls’ sports, but
that won’t last.

Our tennis tournaments are in
progress, and we will be seeing the

‘results posted in the Gym in the

very near future.

Although D.G.A.C. night did not
get started last week, the floor is
open to any of us on Tuesday evening, so next week take your
friends up for a game of something. Badminton it is at present.
Time—7.30.

Is anyone interested in apparatus
work? Surely there are several!
Phyl Barratt informs us that at 2.45
each Tuesday afternoon, any coed
on the Campus is especially invited.
Can you make it?

Special Note to Upper Class Coeds:

Are you hoping to attend a gym
class this year at some convenient
time? We would very much like to
see such a class, so all interested
acquaint Phyl Barratt with your
time-table.

This column can not, as yet, offer
any further information on the Athletic clubs, but hopes to soon. It
also hopes in future to be able to
state instead of question; so come
on girls and help us out!

 

Because of the fact that Dal is
playing Acadia only as a concession
by President Ctanley, whose main
objection was that such trips used
up gasoline and thus were unwittingly crippling the war effort to
some extent, small as it might be,
no special buses will be chartered
by the Student Council to take up
rooters to the Acadia game to be
played tomorrow afternoon at Wolfville.. All energy will be exerted,
however, to make the return game
to be played on Studley, Nov. 1, a
really bangup affair. Plans are already being made to hold a pep
rally the night before the game and
a tea dance in the gym after the
game. Meanwhile enthusiasm for
football is being whipped up to a
new high as prospects of a City
League Title for Dal appear bright. |

The game with Acadia will provide a formidable test for the Tigers
but a victory would secure Dal’s
position at the top of the League
standing. It will be the first time
that either team has met the other
in any sport since the Intercollegiate
agreement was made last Summer.
The Acadia games have always
proved the Hightlight of the Dal
schedule and when such matches
were cancelled, much of the interest
in sport around the University
slackened off. Players are looking
forward expectantly to the match
and it is hoped that some supportres with cars will avail themselves

&
to which Dalhousians will undoubt-| | HALIFAX Nova mosis nn st
edly be welcomed. The Intermediate game is to be played at 2 o’clock
with the Senior match scheduled for

8 o’clock.

ASK FOR

DONOVAN’S
BEVERAGES
at DAL CANTEEN

46 Granville St. Halifax, N.

The Line-up for Saturday’s game
against Acadia:

Fullback: Webber.
Three-quarters: Jo-Jo Fiendel,
Jack MacKenzie, Marty McDonald,
Don McLean. |
Halves: “Yank” Forsythe, John
McCormack, “Dooley” McIntosh. |
Forwards: MclIvor, Ian McGregor,
Ron Ideson, Anderson, Wilson, Web
McDonald. |

p

[

THE

The NATIONAL FISH CO.
LIMITED

FRESH FISH SPECIALISTS
HALIFAX NOVA SCOTIA

DAL OFF HOURS
Can Be Very Profitably Spent at the

MARITIME BUSINESS COLLEGE

73 COLLEGE STREET

Students who not desire a complete course in any of the
Seven Courses are admitted as General Students.

The Evening Classes are held on MONDAY and THURSDAY
7.30 to 9.30 Tuition $5 per month

SHORTHAND and TYPEWRITING
will be valuable aid in future years,

Enter Any Day Tuition counts from date of Registration 
 
