 

x * %

 

 

 

  

HALIFAX, N. S.. NOVEMBER 28, 1941 g

 

No. 9

New Student Solons

 

VOTERS ATTEND POLLS

ae GIR 7 S D OW N MT. i DE E B A T E R S SMALL MINORITY OF ELIGIBLE

  

f 4 "Hyland Argue for Dal

‘Mount: Saint Vincent girls turned
ah en masse to support the Dal
girls team as it triumphed over
_ Mount Allison in a debate at the

Arts building Wednesday. Eight
- girls from the Mount came compared
i - to the Dal Crowd of three, and witoe » _ nessed the return of Dal prestige by
h, Fa ‘the united efforts of Dal debaters

Peggy Hyland and Kay Martin (who
| = performed well despite the Finlay
' + _ absence). Representing Mount Ala ~~ lison. were Captain Barbara Wagtf staff, Port Greville, and Ruth Sch_--wartz, pretty brunette who hales

from New Waterford. Vivacious,
i with excellent poise, and with little
need for réference to her notes, she |
was by far the nost striking personality on the floor. But she dwelt
on triviality, and so Kay Martin,
who had the better analysis of the
_ subject, proved to be the most solid
speaker,
wee Miss ‘Hyland, Dal captain, showed
good poise, and made the least reference to her notes, while Miss Wagstaff had the best affirmative argument. ~
- Judges Rev. Dr. MacKeigan, lawr -- yer T. D. MacDonald, and Lieut.
ie Piercey, awarded the decision

} + Miss Wagstaff in opening the de‘thts pointed out the unnecessary

} cost of advertising, and showed that
~~ during the last year $3,000,000 was
|. spent in the United States unneces; 4 sarily, and also the smaller sum
which alone could be used for the
Sy legitimate purposes of advertising.
- Continuing her attack from the
economic point of view, she pointed
out that real quality and not highpressure salesmanship sold articles,
| §. and that shoddy clothing and poison: ous foods could then get off the mar
ket.

=

geet
= re ‘

==
om, Se
<5 ~
—

ha
“fi

eure

hee
en

ak

ae

at ge
+

Zz

and Ruth Swartz, Mount A.

Miss Hyland spoke first as the
representative of the “unteachables”

and pointed out that new enterprises
could only benefit by advertising.
She went into the aesthetic sense of
advertising, and pointed out the
beautiful programs that were needed
by big-time sponsors to sell their
products. She mentioned the new
Disney short which shows all the
huff and puff of the big bad wolf
impotent against the house of the
little pig made of War Savings
Stamps. Thus advertising was used
for legitimate government purposes.
The fact that Mount Allison had

be,
ei

7 “wae

 

RINK SCHEME BLOCKED
| BY COUNCIL VOTE

ye At an important session of the Students’ Council, held last
‘Sunday, an exhaustive report on the proposed campus rink was
% Wer placed before the student solons and subjected a lengthy discussion. Compiled by Vice-President Bernie Graham and Ben
. Wilson, the report covered practically every conceivable angle
on the much-mooted skating rink. Opinions from the Metero, _ logical Bureau and from men experienced with outdoor arenas

» . were obtained.

4 After a thorough investigation of

__. the data placed before them, the

+ “ councillors came to the conclusion

that such an outdoor rink would not

rf - be feasible for Dalhousie to attempt

b. =ss this’ year with the finances sadly de
, x pleted and with the uncertainties of
the future facing the Council.

_  Aecording to the Meteorological
_ Report an outdoor rink would be a
fair gamble from January to March
oe if the temperature was the only deciding factor. But the success of
m ‘the rink would also be dependent
: upon the amount of precipitation
and numerous other factors which|much more certain and predictable
cannot be accurately determined or|than that of an outdoor rink.
- a forecast beforehand. Expert opin-| A letter from Professor Theaks7 ts hy ns those who had charge of*\ton recommending that the Munro
_ _ the outdoor rink which was run by|Day show be restricted somewhat
rf ie? real ocr years ago tended this year was discussed and it was
, 3 r ieee that one of the dances would
|be eliminated.
_ A request by the D. G. A. A. C.
for a grant of $26 to enable the
Girl’ ; basketball team to carry on

to act as watchman and to do the
required labor. Student labor,
which was suggested as an answer
to this, was overruled as being too
undependable and also impractical.

In the alternative to a skating
rink, it was decided that a committee composed of MacDonald, Bob
Blois, Scrymgeour and Murray Rankin should investigate the possibilities of obtaining the Arena for student skating sessions throughout the
winter. It was decided that this arrangement would not only be much
less expensive, but would also be

1
He
i
‘

 
     
      
 
 
   
  
 
  
   

ae

      

   

t
te

be |home and hame games with Acadia

3 ene: ae. te the Council.

 

Dal Debating Captain Peggy Hylands recei ves congratulations from Mount A. Captain
Barbara Wagstaff. Above (I. to r.) are: Anita Rosenbloom, Kay Martin, Hylands, Wagstaff,

distinguished between advertising
and propaganda availed no more
than a puff of wind against the rock
of ages. In closing she summed up:
Advertising helps government, home
life, and will do away with unemployment.

Miss Schwartz started off in Timelike style: “Gigantic indeed.” By
the time we recovered she was well
on the way into the foibles of the

about the immorality of going into
a’ strange bathroom through the
medium of the modern magazine
advertisements. Uncleansed teeth
labelled the owner eccentric. There
was the Renaissance of the “Why
doesn’t Harry Love Me Anymore”?
Are men successful because they
drink orange juice?

Kay Martin brought up the procession, and argued brilliantly, and

evils of the “liquor cure”, and the | analytically. Advertisement is a
sale of false teeth to the poor, which! protection against fraud. It proteeth later decayed after the guar-|duces price. The country person

antee had expired. Cosmetic in-|can use the mail order catalogue to
spired radiculous claims and mis-|good advantage, and finally it boljleading statements. She spoke|sters the war effort.

 

University of Toronto To Stage

March of Dimes Campaign

Students of the University of Toronto will stage a March
of Dimes campaign on their campus on Wednesday, Dec. 3, with
an objective of nearly a thousand dollars, to be devoted to International Students’ Service, according to an announcement
made this week by the Students’ Administrative Council, sponsors of the all-University drive.

DIRECTORY OUT!
After a considerable delay attri- |
butable to a surplus of work at the
printers, editor Jack “never give a
sucker a break” Matthews has announced that the Student Directory
is at last obtainable. Copies are being distributed by the following:
Law—Sandy MacDonald.
Medicine—President of each class.
Commerce—Matthews or Blois.
Arts-and Science—President Inez)
Smith.

S. A. C. officials said the drive
| would be merely the first item in a
|program of spectacular efforts to
| raise money for the I. S. S. during
| the present school year. The tencent-pieces, estimated at a  probable total of 9,599, will form a 380foot silver ribbon which students,
staff and public will lay down from
| curb to curb along the sidewalk behind the old Observatory building
facing Hart House.

Colorful plans for the ceremony

Engineers—Professor ‘Theakston. have not yet been completed, but

Dentistry—Andy Anderson. are at present under consideration of

The book, similar in form and|# committee which plans to make
content to last year’s edition con- | “°° of as much, appointed by the
tataw!) conatitation’: Of -campes . or Students’ Council, University talent
ganizations, slates of officers, and | °° possible. in outdoor demonstratelephone numbers of faculty and /| |tions encouraging students to constudents. Also included are a num- tribute to the length of the line.
ber of the Dal cheers and songs. Ap-| Secking to co-ordinate all campus
proximately the same amount of ad-| drives for funds by amalgamationg
vertising as was collected last year them in the project, the committee
has been obtained, thus assuring a) is on the alert forall new possibiligood profit for the Student Council. | ties which will bring the first leg of
Because the Directory is only made its drive to a successful conclusion.
possible through the advertisers, the! Dance committees have been  re
 

 

 

editor urges that all students pat- quested by the Students’ Council to
devote their proceeds to the I. S. S.

ronize them.

Junior Prom Date

came under discussion at a meeting

Windebank’s Election Unconstitutional

With the election of Andy Dunn as Arts and Science
representative and Bruce Campbell as Post-Grad representative
the oft advertised and long planned for bye-election came to an
end Tuesday evening at six o’clock sharp after being open for
exactly nine hours.

A grand total of — no, we're
ashamed to publish the precise
figures; better figure them out for
yourselves — approximately 1/13 of
those entitled to vote took advan| tage of the opportunity presented to

them.

Andy Dunn nosed out Alec MacIntosh for the Arts and Science seat,
while Windebank was defeated by
Bruce Murray. Dunn, a brilliant
science student, takes the position
vacated by John Windebank at the
opening of the term; the later, having been elevated to the Post-Grads
ranks. was no longer eligible to hold
the post.

On behalf of the Dalhousie
Student Body, the Gazette wishes
to extend its deepest sympathies
to Dave and Bob Webster on
Their

 

their recent bereavement.
father, Dr. Webster, died early
this week.

 

Nationwide Student
Dances For Red Cross

According to advice received from
the Universiay of British Columbia
by the Student’s Council, plans are
underway for the promotion of na
tionwide Red Cross Balls to bbe held ing of the Post-Grads held several
at all Canadian Universities on

weeks ago that Windebank had been
January 23. Arrangements are be-| poturned to the Council as Post-Grad
ing made to have the C.B.C. extend | »oyresentative. Apparently, however
radio time for a Trans-Canada / that election was not held in accordbroadcast picking up the various| ance with the Constitution reguladances across the country in much

tions and it was declared illegal. In
the same manner as is done with the

: p : the re-elections only a few PostPresident’s Birthday Balls in the} Grads saw fit to cast their votes and
United States.

Bruce Campbell nosed out WindeReliable sources here at Dalhousie

bank for the Council post.
indicate that if the plans are carried| |
into fruition, Dalhousie will be willing to extend its fullest cooperation
to aid in the success of the scheme; |
the Student’s Council is already in
communication with the Chairman
of the Red Cross Ball Committee in
an endeavor to obtain more complete information. All proceeds from
the dance would, of course be turned
over to the Red Cross to help in the
war work abroad.

Word was received from a meet
AMPUS

LIPPINGS

by DON BLACK

 

A writer in the Brunswickan has
actually appropriated the title to
this column. Naughty, naughty.
But then we’ve no copyright, so why

Millionaires Plan Dance, _| kick.

Choose Sport Managers

A meeting of the Commerce Society was held on Thursday, Nov.
27th. in Room 4 of the Arts Building. The chief topic discussed was
the Commerce Ball. a tentative date |
for which was set as Jan. 6th, right |
after the return from the Christmas |
holidays. A committee consisting of
Dot Graham, Jack Matthew and Len
Mitchell was elected to look into all
matters pertaining to the dance, and
it was also moved that president
of the Commerce Society, Bob Blois,
should sit on this committee as an

 

This week being poetry week:
Mary had a little lamb,
Some salad and dessert.
And then she gave the wrong
address,
The wicked little flirt.

 

 

Sadie Hawkins visits Queen’s this
week, They have a whole week-end
of festivities “a la Al Capp.”

 

Ships of state for even keel,
Need tons and tons of corset steel:
The die is cast, the fate is written,

 

3 Women now must bulge for
ex-officio member. uibuiy,

Managers for the different teams
to take part in _ intercollegiate

Sport Note: St. F. X. boils with
indignation on every page at Caledonia’s assertion that they can’t
have the McCurdy Cup unless they
defeat the non-existant Cape Breton
team. Incidentally thanks to Acadia
for giving us a shot at the Maritime
title.

 

sports after Christmas were also

chosen. They are as follows:
Basketball—Cyril King
Hockey—Len Mitchell

Softball—Jack Matthew

 

 

Set By Class ’

Plans for the annual Junior Prom

Envy the happy moron
Who doesn’t give a damn.
I wish I were a moron,
My gosh, perhaps I am!
—The Author of this Column.
DRIP. DRIP.

of the class of 743 held at the Arts
Building on Tuesday at noon, Disappointment as to the small number
of the class in attendance was evinced by President Bill Hagen. Those
present, however, set to work and
appointed a committee to take care
of the Dance arrangements. The
committee is to consist of Helen
MacKay, Mary Johnson, Blanchard
Wiswell and JJack MacKenzie with
Bill Hagen as Chairman,

The date for the grand event has
been set for Thursday, February 12,
at the Lord Nelson Hotel.

 

Then there was the Scotsman who
fried his bacon
from shrinking.

 

The Manitoban tells of a visit U.
of M. had from MacAlester, a college in the U. S. A. recently. <A
joint conference of students was
headed by A. R. M. Lower, former
Department.

a a Po i. A ale

in Lux to keep it

ly at Dal in the Poliiteal Science

ys

 

ee

   
    
1869—“The Oldest College Paper in America”
Eevee: a Alsat that they rertatat the apiece
it cannot 1 t they represen opinion o
ont Body. Ee

by McCurdy Printing Co., Limited, 64 Argyle St, Halifax

GAZETTE STAFF

S. FORSYTH

es Editor: JOHN TASMAN
Editor: LOUISE BISHOP >; and Exchange: DON BLACK
f Editor: DAVID COLDWELL pag klik BOB McCLEAVE
ation i | F
ss Manager: WEBSTER MACDONALD
pher: DON OLAND - -_ 
a Oe ee CE as
a Oe oA Se Opal peak
Fy tag a pe ps
POS UE ee igs oe

B-9311

Sa

= = = = = ~—

yj

ae 9% “LAW AND ORDER”
‘One of the more puzzling features of the world situation
years has been the increasing difficulty in recognizing
s as they are used by prominent public men. Adolf
has given to the word “friendship” meanings which it
rtainly never had before, while “protection” has suffered a
ce tre atment. Canadians are now being puzzled in a similar
uy by the use of the term “law and order” by our budding
ist , Mitchell Hepburn.
The students may know, a strike has been going on at
land Lake for some time. As is natural, feelings have been
ed to some degree, and a few unpleasant incidents have
|place. R. J. Carter, the Reeve of Teck township, in which
and Lake is located, asked the provincial government for
r special police to maintain order. For this he was
ured by the Township Council, which thought that no such
orcement was necessary. The Ontario government, which
mostly Mitchell Hepburn, replied by sending 60 men one day
20 the next. Objection was raised to this procedure not
y by the Township Council and the President of the union,
also by the Reeve who had requested the police in the
oe. Thus no responsible authority in Kirkland Lake
ght that 180 special police were necessary. Mr. Hepburn,
e other hand, was quite excited about the whole matter.
and order’, he declared, “will be maintained at all costs
if we have to recruit an army”. Anyone acquainted with
Hepburn’s record on labour questions will suspect that “law
| order” has not quite the same meaning for Mr. Hepburn
t has for the average man on the street. One suspects
he would not consider peaceful picketing to come within
2 term. Evidently he does not consider international
ionism to come within it. His words are eloquent: “Some of
r jails and reformatories are yawning for some of John L.
is’ paid organizers, who have no interest in the miners
apt to get their greedy hands on the pay envelopes of the
cers. ;
Such statements, unless they are backed by definite
irges, are badly in accordance with traditions of British juse which assure to everyone a fair trial. That the head of
_ the government of a province with more than three million
people should be so carried away as to threaten with imprison-ment men against whom nothing specific is charged, is distinctly
alarming. The Canadian Immigration Act has a section per_ mitting the free passage of union officers back and forth across
u Canadian-American border. It cannot be to this law that
he is referring. The Board of Conciliation appointed by the
tederal government to investigate the Kirkland Lake dispute
Was even more specific on the point of international unionism.
The operators had declared their unalterable opposition to
recognition of the Kirkland Lake Union (Local 240 International Union of Mine, Mill, and Smelter Workers). To this the
_ Board replied:
__ “There is no law that we know of that prevents any group
rorkers from joining an international union and consituting
eir bargaining agent. In fact it seems to have been recog
an aS
«
a

ed policy for a great number of years to encourage the

_ activities of international unions in Canada”.
_ ___ If this is the official meaning of “order”, then one would
sect governmental authorities to act on it. In this regard
2 Ontario government has not been alone in delinquency. It
uld seem to be the duty of the federal government to ensure
ne workers an adequate opportunity to join a union of their
noice, and to make sure that recognition was accorded to that
inion. This policy is expressed in an order in council, P.C. 2685,
uaranteeing workers the right to organize freely in unions of
r own choice (made mandatory by P.C. 7440). It was not
to action at Kirkland Lake, for the company was not

ced to recognize the union.
‘ - Upon the refusal of the company to deal with the union,
_ the workers at Kirkland Lake voted upon the question of going
strike. The whole machinery of that vote was designed to
wart the union. Hundreds of salaried. employees were allowed
_ to vote, contrary to usual practice. A clear majority of all
_ workers not merely of those voting was required for a strike.
_ Finally the ballot was imprinted with this notice: “Your em_ ployer agrees to negotiate with a Committee elected by the
_ employees of the coo but not with Local 240 of the Mine,
_ Mill and Smelter Workers Union. This could hardly be called
a free vote. It was the declared policy of the government,
unciated in several orders in council, to assure recognition
of unions chosen by the workers, but no machinery was put in
operation in this case to compel the cooperation of the com‘panies involved. In all the large mines the strike vote carried,
7o of the employees of all the mines voting in favour. In
r mines where the vote was defeated more than half

lose actually voting had been in favour.
___ The strike vote should not have been necessary at all. The
ps. SC e issue was union recognition, which the Board of Conciliation
had recommended but which the government declined to enje )

5 That police are sometimes necessary in a strike area goes
—et saying. But that the government of a country at war
shoul be so little concerned with the carrying out of its de
0

d policies as to give opportunity to a known labour-baiter
ng in hundreds of police, perhaps “to recruit an army”
extremely ominous thing,

> .
oat ea ¥
ay i=. %

Music and You

How in the world does anyone
write an article on music? The
more you think about music, the less
you want to write about it. As a
matter of fact music often makes
me want to rush to my desk and
write somthing, but never anything
“about” music. I take it that an
article, such as I have been asked
to write, is supposed to explain
some feature of music to those who
are in the dark about what music is
all about. That means that I should
Say some very general things about
such problems as, “what should the
listener try to hearin a symphony ?”,
or, “should the listener try to hear
the music in terms of pictures, stories, or what?”

The reason why so many people,
in this part of the country particularly, fail to enter naturally and
without bothersome questions about
“meaning”, into the world of music,
is chiefly because they hear so little
music. They don’t go around themselves singing tunes of their own invention, nor do they hear professionals putting forth the music of
the great inventors of tunes. Until
we learn to realize that music is
an every-day thing, that it is something arising from the movement
and feeling of ordinary life, we will
remain in the dark about the nature
of music. Someone has said that
the only way to get artists is forbid
the habit of listening to music, and
that of looking at paintings, because
those habits lead people to put the
emphasis upon contemplation of
beauty rather than upon the creation of it. Hence it is no wonder
that most people, after listening for
an hour to music, say in rather
shame-faced manner that they “enjoyed it” but that they did “understand” it. Learn, then, to see that
the “dum-dum-de-dums” of Beethoven are of the same essential nature
as the “dum-de-dums” that accompany you wherever you go. Don’t
reply that you are never accompanied by anything of the sort, because

I can’t believe it; no human being |

can walk about the Dalhousie campus on a bright autumn day without
hearing inside himself some faint
surges of music.

But there another point to keep
in mind in regard to listening to
music. Although there is something
of Beethoven in us, there is far
more of him that is not in us. Unfortunately for us poor ignorant
mortals of 1941, music is an old art.
Countless centuries ago men began
writing down the little ditties that
filled their heads. They were not
content with leaving them in the
simple form of folk-songs, but were

possessed with the desire to draw
out of a simple musical idea all the
possibilities inherent in it. Those
who were so rich in musical ideas
that they could spend their whole
lives in expressing themselves
through these ideas, devolped the
art of music into a very complex
thing. The history of music is the
history of the development of harmony and counterpoint, of many
kinds of musical intsruments, of
sonata-form, of variations, and of
many other branches of the art. It
is little wonder, then, that the first
hearing of a modern symphony
should leave us with the impression
that the experience of the composer
is far removed from our experience.
We find it extremely difficult to enter into the world of feeling that
his music creates for us.

As I said at the beginning, I don’t
know whether I am supposed to
elucidate or not, or whether the
purpose of a musical article is to
offer advice to the troubled. From
what I have said, however, there
does seem to be two points that
should be stressed. Whether you
feel that you are an old hand and
past taking advice on how to listen
to music, or whether you are just
beginning to be interested, you
should try to be a musician yourself, in the sense of expressing your
consciousness of the beauty around
you in musical ideas, be they ever so
feeble. And secondly, you should
listen to the music that is closer to
your own musical experience, before
going on to the works of those
whose language is not your language.

“Peace that Passeth
Understanding”

A mist comes stealing off the lake—
A dusky, drifting fog—
Afar in the whispering rushes
A deep croak burst from a lone
bullfrog.

The burning rays of the setting sun
Slip fast behind the hill;
The sable cloak of night
Slips o’er the land, dark, hushed
and still;

The sweet, close folds of it settle
down
On the whispering, rippling lake;
Out from the twisted shoreline
Sounds the farewell of a bluewinged drake.

There’s infinite peace and rest in the
dark—

There’s peace in that last far cry,

Which, if ever a man could catch
And hold—that peace in his heart
would lie.

BYE-ELECTIONS ISSUE IN FIASCO

A more outstanding example of muddling and mishandling
could scarcely be found than the recent bye-elections conducted
by the Students’ Council. The first classic was the now notorious

“Tnelection.”

was called for a week ago Tuesday.

A bye-election in the faculty of Arts and Science

All arrangements were

made for the election—except that no voter’s list had been
made, no ballot boxes had been arranged for, no room had been
secured, and someone discovered that the required two weeks

notice had not been civen.

Tinder the circumstances it was

deemed prudent to postnone the election for a week.

Worse still was the handling of the post-graduate byeelection. Several weeks ago, it was confidently announced that

the post-graduate societv would choose-its own member.

The

society met, and John Windebank was unanimously elected. His
name apneared.in a sub-headinge of the Gazette and he narrowlv

escaped having his picture on the front page.

trumpets!

Sounds of

Soon, however, some stubborn constitutionalist discovered
that this action was against the law. The constitution declares
that there must, be an election for every office, so an election

there had to be.

Apparently some sort of meeting was called

to select candidates, althoucwh we have been unable to discover

anyone who was there.

was there or knew of the meetine).

(Certainly neither of the candidates

Ahout the dav before the

election several notices were posted informing students of the

two bye-elections.

(The previous Gazette had hinted at two

elections but had given no indication that any new election was

required).

The notices mentioned no names, so the average

post-grad could assume that there would be but one name to

vote on.

Tuesdav the election took place.

There was still no list of

those eligible to vote. and it would have heen of little nse in
‘any case. The final vote was: Bruce Campbell, 3: John Windebank, 0. Mr. Camnbell. informed the next day of his election.
was greatlv surprised to learn that he had been nominated and
that an election had taken place. The average post-grad was

just as surprised.

Post-grads may be notoriously slothful about voting. But
could this be considered two weeks notice? The names of the
candidates were, so far as can be learned, published nowhere.
The result is the fiasco which has taken place.

Li ae
: F ' Oe i
* - , o's
MT iF ‘ i i e' : * py ’ :
% ai. , . » a eee
1 i . 4; i” . Fs.

oo no
i

rr
:

a 4
eo ee a
f

"The purest form
in which tobacco
can be smoked,”

FARMERS’
CHOCOLATE MILK

Is Stimulating .. . It Peps You Up!

“TASTE THE DIFFERENCE”

Faders Drug Stores

135 HOLLIS STREET
29 COBURG ROAD
©

HALIFAX Nova Scotia

ASK FOR

DONOVAN’S
BEVERAGES
at DAL CANTEEN

46 Granville St. Halifax, N. S.

Writing Equipment

Good writing equipment
makes for better notes in
classes.

Birks have good assortments in the popular lines
Sheaffer, Parker, Waterman and Wahl.

Henry Birks & Sons
LIMITED

Registered Jewellers,
American Gem Society

Barrington St. - Halifax, N.S.

MacLeod - Balcom

LIMITED

O

DRUGGISTS

Headquarters for Students
Requirements

O

HALIFAX - SHEET HARBOUR
KENTVILLE, N. 8.

After any Show

or a

Before any Meal

Think of ...

The
GREEN LANTERN

Dalhousie Gniversity

Halifax, Nova Scotia

Maintains a High Standard of Scholarship.
Includes all the principal Faculties of a University.
Largest Staff, Libraries, Laboratories in Eastern Canada.

Arts and Science Faculty
Degrees: B.A., B.Sc., B.Com., B. Mus., Phm. B.
Diplomas: Music, Engineering, Pharmacy, Education.

Four Year Advanced Courses ir. Classics, Mathematics,
Modern Languages and History.

Graduate Courses of recognized standing, leading to degrees

of M.A., M.Se

Courses—preparatory to Professional Faculties.
Course in Public Administration.

Many valuable scholarships,

the courses.

on entrance and through

The Professional Faculties

it ; a)
Law, Medicine, Dentistry, enjoy an unexcelled reputation,

Inclusive Fees: in the B.A. course, average about
in the B.Sc. course,

$160 a year.
about $190 a year, .

Residence
Shirreff Hall, residence for women.
Carefully supervised residential faculties for men.

a
Te fl : Pat a
Sn ae
va ‘ Te j . Wl
28, 1941 —
Sal ee fee fw

:

i ie f " J
i e - Pan

4
}

-—

1

 
   

,

 

   
     
   

   
   

Tt M

 
 
  
 
   

ENTOR

- €he Practice And Fury of Military Training
__ Although only given Brief Consideration in the Official Calendar,
ersity Military Training is an Integral Part of the development of

v th — plete College Man. Everyone enrolled at a University, and who

Fit (P.F.) must take Military Training, unless he can proa Death Certificate to prove that he is Physically Unfit (P.U. or

; = ; os E). The many Advantages to be gained from this interesting and

   
  
  
   
   
  

Siar

 Militaristically speaking.

me
a

Besides learning how to March while on the move, etc.,

ult Phase of University Life cannot be too Highly Extolled, for it
"enables the Student to establish Esprit de Corps, Save his own Clothes,
and, above all, to speak Alphabetically. This is of Supreme Importance,

there are

several Essential Courses included in the training. Of ‘anes the most
-_ important is Map Marking, (M.M.), which all Military Men (M.M.) are

- supposed to know. Everyone must be able to Mark a Map, and in order
Bey to do this, close examination of the Map is imperative.

: Take a Map, and examine it thoroughly. On the upper Left Hand
corner you will find the R.F. Examine this carefully. and wipe that silly
_ Grid off your face. The R.F. in non-Military language means Royal Fusi
- liers, who use the Map exclusively,

around Some more. On the bottom

and who probably drew it. Look
of the Map you will find a Scale.

This is used for measuring the lines on a Scale-card, to see if they are

right. This is Extremely Significant.

The Map itself is merely a series of Conventional Signs, drawn to
show the distance from place to place, estuary to estuary, etc., and

colored with different Trees, so you can tell Land from Water.

One must

be able to do this at a glance, so that large bodies of men will not have
to move through lakes, and other Hazardous Obstacles.

Let us take a simple problem in Map Marking, to illustrate the varied
uses of a Map. Suppose the R.F. is 1/25638; the H.E. is 30”; the V.I. is
25; the Cheese Factory at 96843597 has recently been visited by the A.A.

Q.M.G., and the R.Q.M.S. has the D.T’s.
Level (S.L.) of the contour marked 250?

What is the height above Sea
(This problem is quite simple to

solve, by merely taking an angle, and dividing it into five equal parts.)

Next to Map Marking, the most important study in Military Training
is the Organization of an Infantry Battalion (Inf. Bn.) This is a Chart,
composed of straight lines, invented by the Orderly Room Sergeant.

(O.R.S.).

It must be always remembered that the Inf. Bn. contains in
numerabie Headquarters, Hindquarters, and Forequarters ($1.00) etc., all
composed of Mortars and Pestles, Pigeons and Pioneers, and any number
_L.M.G’s (Lance Major Generals) who look -after things in a very Con
soling Way.

The btudy of the Rifle (R.) is also essential, and since the Rifle is
the Soldiers most Intimate Friend, its mechanism must be thoroughly
understood. It is composed of a Bore, a Line of Flight, and the Culmination Point, which ignites the powder in the bullet. The Rifle, when fired,

will carry 1000 yds. (Yds.), and on a Fine Day, even further.

When firing

the Rifle, remember that there is a right end and a wrong end to hold.

Test each rifle carefully before using.

(Note: The rifle is Useless for

Duck Hunting, due to a pecularity of structure which causes it to aim

ahead of the Duck.

When you have mastered these Intracacies, you are well on the way

to Military Success.

If you are under 4% feet, or over 6, and are versed
in the matters here mentioned, possessing beside these a sound basic

knowledge of Ground Hockey, promotion (S.H.) is assured. Your Military

Career is well begun. Carry On.

ee

JS *

Norrie is certainly going after the
“Big Game” in Mike Smith. He
must have made a profound impression at the Ground Hockey game.
Maybe Blois’ ties were too much for
her.

*

Intelligence reaches us that Inez
enjoyed Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde
in the company of none other than
eur demon Reporter, McCleave.
What happened to Webby, is he
running too fast?

ok * *

It must be convenient for Doig
and Mountain that their friends are
friends. ~The Lobster season is
closed boys, but don’t let that bother
you.

=

ee tae

We understand that our Jafsie is
up to his old tricks again. Gracing
the Supper Dance on Saturday last,
he exhibited rare form, we are told.

* **

Can Marg. Parkes inquiry as to
wether “Red” had a girl friend
mean that she is interested, or just
preparing the way for Sadie Hawkins. How are you on fruitcake,
Marg. ;

a ee

What has Claude Leighton got
that “Birdlegs” hasn’t, What about
that certain somebody at U. N. B.
Claude.

* *

That Strategic Possibilities of Ol_land’s Factory were not overlooked
in Sunday’s manoeuvres by certain
' members of the 0.T.C. We were
fi given to understand that special
_ Reeonnaisance was carried out to
_ everyone’s” satisfaction.
x * *
Ps Flash—Grime Wave Sweeps Camee ery the person of none other than

cd

GLE § 5 %

Johnny McLellan. First the Hi-Y
affair with Lynn, and then the Community Chest affair with a Fair City
Charmer, and now away to a good
start with our Powers Girl, Miss
White. Hennigar and Robertson
had better keep an eye on this Triple
Threat man.

 

*

a

Mystery of the week. Who is Dot
Rose? We know an Airforce who
would like to know. Is Allison’s
middle name Dot? Any imformation leading to the identification of
this Dual Personality will be appreciated.
e Kay has cut another notch in her
knitting needles. We are wondering who will be lucky enough to be
around when that Scarf is finally
finished.

* %* *

et Me

Is “Lightning” Forbes trying to
do a little musceling, or does he
fancy his chances. Bridge is much
more alluring. “Mac” Murray’s date
Bureau is functioning all right, so
the evening wasn’t wasted.

* * *

GRIME MARCHES ON

Frosh: Howsit for a date, sister?

Co-ed: My dear fellow. I won’t
go out with a baby.

Frosh: I’m sorry; I didn’t know.

Only 29 more shop-lifting days, or
shoot the Quiz to me—Diz!

Various member of the Investive
Shrieking Club stood around on yellow soap boxes inveighing against
the weather and the O-Pee-Chee,
fearing they would be called upon
to arrest the deadly PROKOV,
crowded into the orderly room singing “What a Friend We Have in
Hokum.”

Meanwhile John Gaunt, arm in
arm with fiery Rufus Rayne, was
methodically preceeding about the
campus getting signatures on a petition appointing himself as Prexy
Protem, while John Fastman, crackling wierdly, sped up and down the
roof of the Science Shed painting
D-O-O-M in large red letters.

Over at the entrance to King
Karl’s office another frightful scene
was being enacted. Ignatz Schmidt,
supported to left and right by
sweater-boys Smackindash and McLemon and in back by whirling dervishes Nneeda Weed and Luring
Harpy was advancing on the main
door, hoping to scare off Provok by
main might of commotion and occupy the presidential chair by a
coop-de-tat, when the door opened
silently revealing seated behind King
Karl’s desk, not Provok, but com
 

pEAR DIARY

EXTRACTS RROM THE
DAIRY OF A HALL GIRL

Tuesday

Fudge! its difficult to talk about
a picture like “Major Barbara” with
a boy after you’ve seen it together,
I can’t enthuse properly about the
hero — makes me feel repressed.
Don’t get me wrong, diary, I love
going out with boys, especially to
movies.

Wednesday
I wish I had a room-mate. It
must be such fun—they laugh and
talk way after everyone else goes to
bed. (Next time I hear them I'll
bang on the floor or something!)

Thursday
I don’t dare go into second wing
sitting-room any more after the way
they “Conga’d” at me tonight.

Friday

Who was calling for whom (to
use my best english) and which was
the sober one? So confoosin’ and
really quite amoosin’ too. Not so
the impromptu concert they tell me
there are people who actually enjoy
these exhibitions must be freshettes.

Saturday

Did Moose keep his fair damsel
from C.B. late or why was Jane
Kelly on House Committee list?

Too bad Babe missed the dance—
it was such fun and now I’ve learned to Conga I’m not scared any
more. Funny there was only one
committee member present, isn’t it?

Sunday

Guess who I saw in church today!
The boy who used to sit in front of
me in English 2, has he changed! he
used to be an awful drip but that
uniform gets me every time. I wonder if the Air Force will ever take
the place of the navy in our hearts.

Monday
(After slaving all night on that
dumb freshette’s Theme) I saw this
in a paper and wanted to record it
for posterity; |

BOOK REVIEW
Literary tastes run high
To judge by
The price
Of best-sellers; but I
Saw Milton many a time
Sold second-hand for a dime.
Goodnight!

 

Love Story

Somebody stole the bee’s honey
and nectar.

placently smiling at the astonished
assemblage, none other than
WILBUR P. reas

Sy
ee

 

An added interest was imparted
to the scene by the sudden arrival
of Brush Camel dragging after him
in triumph the sad remains of J.
Windebag, his three aiders and abbettors shouting, “Long live. the
choice of the people! Hail the compact majority!” Despite his triumph,
Camel was barely able to stand up
under the weight of public opinion,
symbolized by Sammy Skunk, who
sat gredily upon the triumphial arch
munching Polar Pies, muttering to
himself, “It’s amoosin’ but confoosin!”

Just then a pitiful cry was heard
and Dash Pink could be seen pointing frantically to the top of the Studley flag-pole, where a hooded (or
perhaps sweatered) figure could be
seen perched on one foot. Great excitement was caused among the assembled throngs, who supposed that
the hooded (or sweatered) figure
must be King Karl. After some discusion Bile Rennan and Dooley
Mouthinwash set forth flapping their
erutches. Shortly they flapped back,
however, grumbling, “It can fly. It
is only ‘Birdlegs’.”

 

What does Wilbur P. know about
Provok? What does King Karl
know about you? What do you
know about that? Well!!

T-SQUARE)

We hope nobody felt too badly
about not being mentioned last week,
We were just pressed for space, and |
only the favored few were noted.

Our sympathies to Chas. Fowler |
—we all think its too bad, that is
everyone except Johnny MacLean.
(New Glasgow papers please copy).
Why has Hagen suddenly lost his
interest in a certain freshette—we
know its not because its so close to
exams—how about it Bill?

We never thought of Large and
Winterbourne as Drug-store cowboys, but they sure can corral some
beautiful girls.

/ A
0 /, oe
¢ 4 oo or
a > 7
~~
ty
> ° =
LP <
a
~s
S ar
A vs
et
\
“
yw
> MS
\ ~
~
SSS
~~ ™
‘
2 eC3r—ere eee — LLL

   

 

We wish to warn several people |

that its not wise to “study” at the
Hall. MacKenzie says, “Heck! I
haven’t been there for ages — not
since the night before last.”

Why does Fred Russell find the
task of moving so delightful—could
be because he will now live just
across the street from the Hall.

Advertisment—Lost.—One fraternity pin, at Law Ball or afterward
(tsk-tsk). Anyone knowing whereabout of same please get in touch
with, Bob Mussett.

Russ Webber doesn’t believe advertising pays, he says that he only
got one reply and she thought he
was serious about tutoring in Latin!
No! you don’t look like that kind
Russ!

 
 
  
 

Our deepest sympathy to David
Webster on his recent bereavement.

  

OXFORD

Friday - Saturday

“MANPOWER”
‘HURRY, CHARLIE, HURRY’

Monday and Tuesday
‘MY LIFE WITH CAROLINE’
‘THEY MEET AGAIN’

Wednesday and Thursday

“SHINING VICTORY
“3 SONS OF GUNS”

 

|

Py ee Mee Rae gee mes eee
z = “ i

———— ee

  
 
 
 
 
   
 
   
  
   
   
    
   
  
 
 
   
    
    
   
   

Wallace Shoes

 

Now is the time to Buy
Boots and Shoes for
Men and Women.

  
    
  

 
  
  
   
  

  
  
   
 
  

Wallace Bros.

Limited

  
 
  

    
  

   

415 BARRINGTON ST.
Halifax, N. S.

    

   
       
   
  
   
   
 

For Throat Easy
Mildness — Smoke

Buckingham
Cigarettes

Garrick

A Famous Players Theatr
Saturay - Monday - Tuesday
“GLAMOUR BOY”
RAIDERS OF THE DESERT”

    
  
 

 

THE

The NATIONAL FISH CO.
LIMITED

FRESH FISH SPECIALISTS
HALIFAX NOVA SCOTIA

   
 

 
  

ORPHEUS

Dec. 1-3—‘The Show Goes On’
‘Saloon Bar’

Dec. 4-6—‘Let’s Go Collegiate’
‘Triple Justice’

Wednes. - Thursday - Friday
“THE BAKER’S WIFE”
“NIGHT OF JAN. 16th”

Dec. 8-10—‘Stork Pays Off’

‘Secrets of Lone
Wolf’

The New
Samous Players Sheatre

Friday and Saturday

CASINO

*

“SKYLARK”

CLAUDETTE COLBERT
RAY MILLARD NOW PLAYING

oie Abbott and Costello |

in
Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday

Keep ’em Flying
“LADY BE GOOD” a

ELEANOR POWELL
ANN SOUTHERN

AS CO-PILOTS THEY’RE
CO-RIOTS!

 

\

 

» Between games
ese pause and

Drink

Delicious and

eget bets

    
 

Here’s a drink that is
unique. It never loses the
freshness of appeal that
first charmed you. So
when you pause throughout the day, make it the
pause that refreshes with
ice-cold “Coca-Cola”,

YOU TASTE ITS QUALITY

THE COCA-COLA COMPANY OF CANADA, LIMITED
HALIFAX

 
' . = ; f —s- s\. 5 : ees eet? take
FOL ae Teer 4 TA Med . ose ia A oy AR aes | oe" i. es: y £ ‘ee? ae a

. AS eg r*

November 28, 1941 «

 

  

 

rs
io

ih

DLs | Saas
a

: 9 ¢ win =
’ vs - ‘ ar z
P r : ae a D ate ri eS ad, ee ery” at ey Soe) AP wee ae % gy if F 4 he ,
a} } : iy he ee ot. f wags iow sehen * > : ty i oi at ; aes z *
: Se iy Pe setiyt 44s, P f “ +:
- ae : tnd pins " ; , 2 1 7
- . e reo ; .
ite Aye; nN A, ‘ 4 . : 1
‘ os iets 2) 7 . ‘ 3 4 . ai : “
i) 2 = i — , = . : ~<a!
oe i : , r , :
= ba) as, as t Pe F \ ry ; : * : '
A) ane) . == ; - Pi _ ' ‘
ae os oy om ei ftat .
| " ay = “ bh * 3 =
: re ; 5 ‘ ‘
+ yal Paes ot id
i 7 : - >
: ¢ .

 

 

“” WASN'T THIS THE HAPPY?”

    

 

Core JZ:
| ep The team that Dalhousie will enter in the Halifax City Basketball
- League made an auspicious begin
 
  
    
 

  

ng of the new season on Tuesday
night when they trounced a highly‘touted Navy quintet to the tune of
_-$2-27 in a close-checking, hard-. fought exhibition game.
‘< a Navy’s: line-up included several
ager - members of last year’s sailor squad
__—-which won the City League and was
es eliminated from national competi_ tion by a Montreal team.
The Dal team, led by Mike Smith,
Ben Wilson and MacLeod ran up
quick scores in the opening minutes
as their plays clicked with telling
effect. The result was that the
_ ‘Tigers led 22-15 at half-time.
_-‘With the opening of the second
half, both teams missed easy
__ chances to score when they failed to
find the basket on so-called “sucker
2 Sehots”, :

The sailors had seen little previous action as a unit, and in the
face of the collegians’ close-checking tacties, resorted to the individualistic style of play which generally
looks very effective, but often isn’t.

The Tigers’ advantage in physical
stature over their opponents was
__ apparent from the first, and the col___ legians exploited it to negative the
-_——— gerial attack of the “middies”. As
_--—s @ consequence, Navy points were
_—s-« geored on quick breakaways by
__-Naismith and Mitchell, and by long
_ “loopers” tossed from almost midfloor by Bates. 
: Dal concentrated for the greater
_ part of the game on clever plays

 
        
   
  
 

  
    
     
     
     
 

     
 
     
 

     
       
     
   
   
   
     
 
    
 

 

   

This week the Sport Page is sorely pressed for copy; but that
was only one of the reasons for printing the above cut of the Dalhousie Tigers’ ruby team in action, The other reason was that it Hockey Scene Muddle
might take the student mind back to those happy days when exams
were far in the future, and books were used primarily to hold up
windows. Those were the days when the’sun shone brightly on the
days when it wasn’t raining, whereas now the situation is reversed,
and the prospect is dark with foreboding: now it is raining on the
days when the sun isn’t shining brightly.

But to get back to the cut. It is a pictorial representation of

    
    
 

In last week’s Sport Spice there
appeared a note to the effect that
the Dal Hockey squad would begin
practices early this week. Apparently our informer (no less a man than
Serymgeour, this year’s hockey man
  

  
 

  
   
    
 
   
  
  

. Set up by the hard-working guards,| what proved to be the winning score in the game which Dalhousie | 22°") had been undone at the last Brief Cases and Paper Cases
fe j Smith and Wilson, and fast breaks| played against Acadia on the Studley field. “Dooley” MacIntosh has | ™oment _by the anne ope of All Kinds At Reduced
___ by the sharpshooting forwards. plunged across the line with half the Acadia team in front of him, |4"e"a Rink, and it devevloped that ; ue

 

by ___ In the middle of the second half| and all the Dalhousie team behind him. The score at this point is | "0 practice sessions would be held Prices.

fir Navy made a strong bid, and at one| Dal 9, Acadia 3, and from this point onward the Wolfvillains were | Until the New Year.

ie e were leading the homesters by| out of the picture (literally and figuratively). But on the heels of this announce
Bie’ Gen point. This lead was short- ment came news of a more ominous KELLY’S LIMITED

is lived, however, as Forsyth and Mil- nature. At a meeting of the College ;

bp ligan came through for scores to put Service League held this week, it 118 Gr anville St. B-6902
Us the Tigers in the lead for keeps. was learned that N. S. Tech, prob
ably the strongest entry in last
year’s loop would not participate
this year. Dalhousie representatives
at the meeting, Sandy “The People’s
Choice” MacDonald, and “Arkey”

ae The later part of the game saw the

_ gailors tighten up defensively to

prevént further Dal scores, while in

_ the last minute the gold and black

_» quintet “froze” the ball until the |

| whistle blew to end the contest. Before the student body takes on that dull, glazed, glassy stare that Vaughan immediately assumed a

__». Dal’s lack of conditioning was 4P-| seems to be the concomitant of examination fever. we’d like to find out “you can’t do this to us” attitude,

‘parent as the Same entered its| what people are intending to do about the sport situation in the New| put it was of no avail. Tech was

| dying “minutes, but this was to be| Year. The response to our frenzied appeals for support for the football dak? deat Hhat--was ll Phot ead ts
expected in view of the short time | team during its successful fall campaign was relatively gratifying. But/it. With only Dal and Saint Mary’s P

_ the team has been working out. rugby is a dead issue, now that winter winds are blowing and winter snow | jet. the mitonk a : with that Professional touch sO admired

. ; ; ; ; : ; , ppeared to be a Ir

_ McLeod of Dal and Bates of the| js Snowing. Basketball and hockey take over at this point, and it remains shade darker than black There b

to be seen whether Dalhousie students will rally round the hoopsters and |. onid a narentid e t q y College Men —

the pucksters in approved style ee ee eee

: ; the D. A. A. C.’s hockey appropri
In past years, when two or three have. gathered together in the S¥50 | ation: But?it seems that now tens

to see the Tiger quintet strut their stuff, they constituted a “crowd”. < ay Ossibbility of onwanis; 4

Upon investigation it often developed that most of the spectators were eee y RANE AG

Intermediate League (so-called)

“Joe’s” who were merely seeking cover from the winter weather. Dal- which would include the two college SHANE’S MEN’S SHOP

housians have always been conspicuous by their absence. And why? |. :

Basketball is a fast, clean sport. There is action a-plenty. The onlooker “as as well as entries from the 30 SPRING GARDEN ROA
doesn’t have to stamp his feet and muffle his ears to keep warm. In fact, Navy and Army. ohn
the more one considers it, the more diffeulty one has in thinking of even Until the Yuletide session has
one good reason why the hoop game hasn’t “clicked” as a spectator sport | Passed, however, there seems to be
on the campus. Can it be that the “dry rot” of disinterest is at fault? | nothing to report. And so with high |
Or do people have too many other things to do? hopes for a successful hockey season |

The hockey squads of past years have been in an even worse position.|and with very best wishes for this)

If any Dalhousie sport has received less support than basketball, it has|and that, ‘we give you the “Hockey t
2
The Nova Scotia Technical College

been the ice game. Generally the only person who knows anything about | Situation”... You can have it. We
Offers Engineering Courses in

SPORT Spice

by AL. MacLEOD

i i i a a Sa ~~ ~— — — SS a oS Sa

   
 
 
  
  
  
    
  
  

    

SMART CLOTHES

THE STORE PREFERRED BY STUDENTS

_ for the contest in the persons of
_ -*¥Yank” Forsyth, who performed for
Kings last year, Doug Hicks and
; hie Dawson McDonald, erstwhile Mount
_ Allison hoopsters, and John “Rufe”
Fraser of Dal.
i: The Tigers’ performance augurs
well for a very successful season
_ this coming winter. They showed
plenty of spirit and aggressiveness,
and with the conditioning that will
come with regular practice, will be
strong contenders for the title which
_ they so narrowly missed last year.

       
   
   
  

 

A Discount of 10% to Students

 

the Dal ice sextet is the little man at the door who in theory is there to| don’t want it.
mis i take tickets. Of course the hockey team gets its picture published in the | — ro eae oes
e line-ups: Year Book, but even there it seems they’ve often not had a “break”. It| it is a hoax, or put-up-job, but real
Dal: Forsythe 5, Hicks, Doig, Mil- +“ ” : : Tk 7
MAHL A. Bocliesd 10, MacDonald, eh develops that the “Hockey” page is blurred, uncut, or just torn|ly it is very simple. Those girls es ELECTRICAL, MECHANICAL and MINING

- Wilson 5, Smith 8, Fraser.
‘Navy: Bates 10, James 2, Hatfield
4, Dovey 2, Naismith 2, Mitchell 5,

 

who have in the previous year, or Twenty Free Scholarships of $75.00 each for Nova Scotia Students
years shown interest, certain “ac
quired” ability, desire to improve

In the coming winter campaign in basketball and hockey it is expected |
that Dalhousie teams will do well, and it is hoped (although not very

To Dalhousie Students with Engineering Diplomas
confidently) that Dal students will show interest (although probably not |

 

 

 

 

aan a ' till f ; Modern Equipment, I i ivi
i Callahan 2. ah yiy tk eee aM dikes 3 Guiica!! te Vaceaaay ten tee eh ae a vee who are Equip nstructing Staff with Individual Experience
a | | ; organization. But even so, it’s difficult when the would-be organizer has restrictions : vai ee regan aah Write or call for Calendar or advice to
Pell. ; ; ; ,
as Razors pain you, to combat the lethargy which seems to infest every phase of Dalhousie qualities even if this j 1 ee F, X. SEXTON, President
__ Rivers are damp, undergraduate life . .. - at toe
et Bel Sikes ie first year at College. We can judge
sae ‘Kea «setae ; you with even more accuracy if you
Setter” — | COEDS ONLY pies rest te mae oto rice oe
E ern wet , ys Played a couple of! top of the ladder that i
Nooses give, By M. PARKES | weeks ago been more to the point? Se re

we reason for icles

2 Gas. smells awful, P _ ; _ |However, if it’s hop-scotch we want said Seek i ea

. You might as well live. LASH! What’s happened this jet’s all have our try at it—some- : ; Compliments of
Ne —Dorothy Parker. | week in the field of girls’ sports? You first, second and third year

, time—but let’s try something.
Y oi tele! / y “ students are the ones to show great‘Tis making the rounds that only

: i ,est interest in the ladder and the C I ; 1
After asking everywhere, I still very few turned up on last Tuesday a : unar i

don’t know. To my mind it appears night, which does not look so Sal faan ye Ore Ee i? ae >, 8 " ae . .

that the eighteenth century coquet- | for basket-ball, badminton, or for . ci Tee . HEAT M

tish days are returning, (of course us when the demand for the floor is Oh! to get my hands on a nice CT ORE aERS

I could be mistaken), but, by the way increasing with time. pee oe ee)
the girls are not turning out for; We realize that exams are creep. | “PP/#¥S® Dalhousie Co-ed game, just 3

sport, under any name, it would take ee up with great strides, rhage to see what one could do with such! Hard Coal, Soft Coal, Coke, Fuel Oil «
a great deal to convince me against! have we really and truly “made a .
the idea. Of course there was the night of it’? Think this over and | “IF YOU WANT TO SEE
attempt on the part of Anita and’ plan on definitely coming out right WELL, SEE WALLACE”
her girl-friend plus two others (we after Christmas. THOMAS WALLACE

 
  
 

_ POLLOW THE REST OF
o. .. THE BOYS

_ | FOR YOUR FOOTWEAR
SHANE’S SHOE STORE

__ Special Discount to Students
397 BARRINGTON ST. B9144

 
    
     
 

   
  

  

   
 

| THE ©
_ | ROSEDALE NURSERIES
| | Y.M.C.A. Building — B-7530

    
 

 
 
 
 

 

 
       
   

 

     
   

 

re 381 Barrington Street won’t mention boys’ names in this! Do i i
Os si D you know what the Badminton SONS AND DA Halifax, N. S.
ey 31 seg Garden Rd. ret B-6440 column) to try and excite a game} League is? and how it is chosen? SIGHT SPECIALISIa Dartmouth, N.S.
a bee poor is et of Hop-Scotch, or were we misin- Many may be misinformed about|| Y¥.M.C. A. Building Halifax
and All Kinds Design Wo formed about this? Wouldn’t some/|this, or even go so far as to think Phone B-6881

 

 

- “>
= eae Ct te ese

+ 6. ed 7
ese; ateatnes to eee

    
