    

  
 
 
  

plar a prison

the walls were NOT MADE

 
  
  

3

    
   
   

i &® &

 

¥ as
~
rhe
an p
i

te ty

_ also from the Queens Journal:
__ Pye analyzed it roundly,
_-‘Pve looked at it with care
~~ T’ve studied it profoundly
And now I do declare
_. -That the difference between them
AT check St step by step
_ Is that Seniors are just Freshmen
‘Who have lost their pep.
cae he ee Ae * * *
"ae A “friend” tells us:
4 a - Dieting is the triumph of mind

i
as

over platter.
_ At Western, the college has ‘te‘{¥  eeived assurance that the student
| | Yates on trams would apply to all
students, not just those under a certain age. Too bad something cannot be done in that way here. We
could use a few reductions in trans_ portation fares generally.
_ axis in London, Ont., cost 85c
anywhere in the city. After the war
something should be done about this
here. In the meantime it is evident

that not much can be done.
* x *

ul
Aa

remy f|
>

‘a+

f
? Gig:
- Do you remember this one:

“Porter, get me another glass of
ice water.”

“Sorry, sur, but if I takes any
mo’ ice dat co’pse in de baggage
} ear ain’t goin’ to keep.”

- : * + * ‘

Some people use statistics like a
drunk uses a lamp-post—for support, rather than illumination.

‘ eR oe

Blame this one on a reader of
“Life”:

“Senator wants sit-down of woman probed” —headline. Bob Reynolds, no doubt. .

ied ; * 22%
Shirreff Hall is quite the place
In which to woo a pretty face,
For which I’m thankful;
And there’s a dive down in the town
In which my jilted heart I drown—
For which I’m tankful.
4 * * Bd
Then there was the Babe White
joke — about the strip tease artist
who just couldn’t learn to knit because she’d drop ever stitch.
* * ?
A robin sang.
His cheery notes
Were sweet.
Came chaos wild,
Men trembled, guns
Boomed loud.
Man’s cry of fear
Rang loud. But still
The robin sang—
So sweet.

ra

v4
"<

CC ™

?

   
  
 
   
  

—Argosy.

gusting, isn’t it?

x *

*

%*
C.0.T.C.—A_ battalion parade is

ye
+
=)

i.

é ; . * ns

Christmas.

* *

e must agree with the following |

 

 

At a meeting of the Class of ’42, held on Thursday at noon, ar-.
rangements were made to have all graduation pictures taken before

eee ane
x rh Are
iy |

  
 
  
  

“)
J aos
et siae

i )

 

VOL. LXXIV

 

 

Met

tld Pe
| Fahey > t9¢ Gh
o> Mk eS i
i } Ms 2 Tyre 3
| ‘
né i es

Tree is)
ee ree ty

eter
Cai si m aielt

ely
i s

  
 

HALIFAX,

 

_ GLEE CLUB SCORES HIT

 

Sheik Graves receives adulation of Fre shman cohorts Sue Morse (Sweater Queen),

Doreen Miller, Margaret Morrison and Anita

First of this season’s Glee Club
productions, the annual Freshman
Show was released before a large
and appreciative audience last Friday night. The performance was
presented in the form of a musical
revue and variety show. A great
number of talented freshmen were
unearthed by therevwe and outstanding performances were turned in by
Anita Reed, whose Oriental gyrating and twisting caused many a
male heart to palpitate just a little

. well, maybe we

* oe

Sn,” Law Ball tonight, fellows. It isn’t too late yet. There are still plenty
of pretty girls floating around just dying to be asked.

a *

to be held tomorrow afternoon in
_ stead of Sunday. On Sunday, however, “A” Syllabus candidates are to
fe parade at 1000 hours for a two-hour examination paper.
; ; *

*

* *

si A meeting of the Students’ Council has been called for this coming

sday evening, November 18.
H  *

wero
a!

*

‘~*~
)

*

 
  
  

'

7

re
¢
i

‘

        
 

?

   

j

       
   
  
    

a

hy

i a,

Pew

t for the home team.

& *

numbers for the year will be
1 pie he a

ay
ria
»*

ag.

| Tuesday—P.M.:

*x* *

My ‘
ae _ Basketball practices have begun and will be held every Monday,
_ Wednesday and Friday at one o’clock.

* *

eas Don’t forget the intercollegiate debate between Dalhousie and
Mount Allison co-eds, Room 3, Arts Building, November 26th at & ¢ |
p.m, We are upholding the affirmative of “Resolved that modern
| ‘tising is more beneficial thon harmful to society”. Come and

|
:
:
:
:

x *

a4 tention, Shirreff Hall! Pine Hill wishes to announce that its new |
| B-8576 and B-7908. |

ok

* *
Effective Speaking Club, Tuesday, November 16, |

   

————@the tough sophisticated strip teaser Kirkpatrick

One Moment Please |

Sorry to spoil your fun, folks: we’d sure hate to interrupt anything; but we’ve heen asked to advise you that . .
shouldn’t make this too abrupt ... anyway ... gosh, this is awful—
just look at the bulletin boards.. Notice anything different? Yeah,
the timetables for the Christmas exams have just been posted. Dis
R eed in Frosh smash hit production.

faster, Lorraine Harper, dancer “par in her rendition of “Daddy” were
excellence” and the song team of!a delight to the ear and provided
Dorothy Rose and Art Hearst whose lots of “Ooomph”. The feature atrendition of “Until Tomorrow” had | traction of the evening, however,
a wistful appeal that brought the and one that received the most en
tune to the fore as Saturday’s num- | thusiastic reception was a surprise
ber ‘one hit on the campus

‘presentation by Bunny Levitz, who
Many of the numbers were slight- | gave an excellent impersonation of

ly more risque than your reporter|a Latin American dancer in the num
has hitherto had the opportunity of ber Frenesi.

witnessing on this campus but you Altogether, the show reflected

don’t hear us kicking about that. | creditably on those who had charge
More of it, say I. Barbara White as! of ts direction. Production manager

and Director Levitz
e the full credit for the peryes and | formance while to Barbara Sienie| wiez goes orchids for the unique cosAs the gum chewing, gabby, itumery. Although some grumbling
switch-board operator with the | as to the shortness of the show
Bronx accent, Jean Cameron did a) could be heard, there was little critgrand job. It was obviously a take-|icism directed at the show itself. :
off on the comedy team of “Brenda| Music for the presentation was
and Cobina” but was well handled supplied "by Jerry Naugler while a
and not overdone.. Student Orchestra took over for the
The solo efforts of Lynn Marcus 'dance afterwards.

was a natural. All the boys had to gesepy
do was to shut their e
imagine. And they did,

 

N. S., NOVEMBER 14, 1941

.andS.BYE-ELECTION TUESDAY

©

 

a a 5 4
sss snnnysesstensstensesineen

 

sess SSS sli esses

 

 

ATTENTION
GRADUATES!

Will the following please take $2.00 themselves to Climo’s
to have their pictures taken on

2.30—B. Fink
2.45—A. Forsyth
3.00—A. Gardner
3.15—H. K. Greer
3.30—N. Hermans
3.45—C, Hicks
4.00—M. Hyland
4.15—Mary Kinley
4.30—P. Lan ;
4.45—E. Littlejohns |

2.00—Mary Beattie
2.15—Louise Bishop
2.30—D. J. Black
2.45—Phyllis Blakeley
3.00—K. Boite
3.15—Grace Burris
3.30—J. Cahan
3.45—Chris Cameron
4.00—K, Campbell
4.15— M. Campbell !
4.30—R. Cohen ae)
4.45—Mary Comeau

Wednesday—P.M.:

2.00—T. H. Drillen
2.15—M. Evans

| Remaining Grads:
Please watch the bulletin board

pointments,

; women condemning them.

his ping pong games.

en) arid cabal S

ees

 

No. 7

 

 

Dunn And Maclntosh
Candidates For Council Vacancy

Windebank Post-Grad Representative

By order of the Student Council, bye-elections for the
vacant Arts and Science seat on the Student Council will be
held on Tuesday, November 18th. John Windebank was elected
to the position in the spring elections last year, but as a result
of his having joined the post-grad ranks this year, he was
forced to vacate the seat in October. Later, at a meeting of
the post-grads, Windebank was reappointed to the Council as
post-grad representative.

Fee ae PL s vea ne nee re
REVOLT in EFFECTIVE)

SPEAKING CLUB

After a moderately acrimonious
discussion the executive of the Effective Speaking Club resigned at a
business meeting held in the Arts
Building Thursday the sixth. The|
ostensible purpose was to free Mr.
Edward Morris, the president, from
such prosaic matters as the conducting of meetings, so that he
might act as a “Jupiter fulminator’, co-ordinating the activities of
Sodales and the Effective Speaking
Club. For this purpose he was
elected honorary president of the
club.

The new executive consists of
Miss Betty Ritchie, president; Jim |

Stevens, vice-president; and Colin | soak
Smith ( “P ') é ‘ + has urged that every student eligi‘ 1 S$ Sse: S secr ry. ; . :

Se eee, ee EeeD °| ble to vote shall exercise his fran
strengthen the club, members were| , . saber ves ‘

ule ‘iy c dl ba h - chise as an indication of his support
appoi o han various aSes | .
SEP Tce een re res Oa mee and interest of student government.
of its activities and represent sec- |

; : sa _ | All too few realize that it is of
none of ne membership: Forrest, | +4.) concern to every Dalhousian
Kd Weir; Studley, Doug Robertson; to see-to it that he is adequately
Freshmen, Allan Butler; Gazette represented on his University govJim rete Sherrif Hall, to be an- | ernment. Almost every phase of
Ree i; h : student activity at Dalhousie is con: The policy of the new eSrcunys | trolled and regulated by the Student
is to make the club the training

F .- | Council. These are the solons upon
ground for all students interested in whom rests the responsibility of
public speaking and to prepare

for Sodal spending your ten dollars. It is,
or Sodales,

! .’ | therefore, your duty if you are enIf you have any ideas” which titled to a vote, to cast a ballot on
you’re ashamed to express in nor
: Tuesday,
mal society, tell them to the club.

2 DiPo

®
(Dalhousie Institute of Public Opinion)

Shou'd U. S. and Great Britain Have Russia Join Them in
Post War Policing of the World?

45% decided in the affirmative, the same in the negative, and 10%
were undecided. Of the men, 55% were answered Yes, with no indecision,
and the rest an emphatic No. One suggested they would have no choice,
another that it was a question as to whether Russia would let them or
not. One reason for a negative answer was the fact that Russia has so
little a navy. One of the girls said Yes, if she beats Germany. Sister,
if Germany wins, therewon’t be any need for a policing. 38%. of the
women answered Yes, and 46% no,
*

Considerable delay in arranging
for the election of a successor to the
post was occasioned by the lethargy
and inaction of the Arts & Seience
Society in making nominations. At
a meeting of that Society, held at
the first of November, the names of
Andy Dunn and Alee MacIntosh
were brought forward as candidates
for the Gouncil vacancy and were
approved by the meeting.

Ballots are to be cast in the
D.A.A.C. room in gymnasium. be| tween the hours of twelve noon and
one o’clock on Tuesday. All stu| dents registered in the Faculty of
Arts & Seience and possessing a
Student Council card are entitled to
east a vote. Webster MacDonald

 

 

>)

* *

How Many Times Have You Taken An Active Part in Dal
Organizations? Such as the Football Team? Sodales?
Evidently nearly everyone has engaged in some pursuit or other.

Of those quizzed, 30% only, had not engaged in any activity, not even

| the Effective Speaking Club, where everybody is free to join in. Of this

year’s frosh class, only one quizzed said he had not taken part in university life. One reason for the quality of frosh activity was the fact that
the observer was drawn to the more beautiful freshettes, who have done
everything from cartwheeling to wearing green pants and red leg warmers at football games. Others put their social triumphs at a very high
level. One had engaged in “thousands of activities”, no doubt counting
On the average each person had engaged in 3.8

activities, after we had pared down the ‘thousands” to 4.
Be a es ae

What Do You Find Most Objectionable About Styles?

This was a double-barrelled question, and each person could comment
on that of their own sex as well as that of the opposite. 25% of the men
said their styles were all right, and 814% of the women were just as
optimistic. Commenting on their own styles men found fault with loud
ties, baggy trousers (looking significantly at the inquisitor), drabness

| (this one was wearing a green coat), three years behind style, and what’s
| inside. Women commenting on their styles didn’t like dippy hats, crooked

seamed stockings
to suit them.

a 1 : wmdiccs ae r-SloaY RTRs
;-2veryining, Kriee sucks, teo Paaiem, adit ( Wear tlomes
There was an agreement on crew cuts, with 16% of the
They didn’t like striped shirts, frayed collars,

| (17%), ties (25%), combinations, drab clothes, and white collars with

different coloured shirts. Men had more pronounced dislikes. 50% were
against knee socks, and certain types of sweaters, some hermits hadn’t
really noticed, others thought the girls wore too much, their skirt lines

for time schedules for their ap-| too low, their skirts should be rationed more strictly, and there was even

one complaint by an explorative individual against girdles.

  
hi ait aor nt ae Perlite oN tie ee ee i eae eee ee enn Eee Pe ee oa otal = — reo ‘

i, ee AT, “a Ie rie! ee i nr. ee ee ? a a eee i Si : a ene = a eee 7.

ne weay lame ‘ee by ere q eo eet. or Se a ae ‘ : a “ee Sey Nie i es, ae ta PF -, : ey ay

Te Fee he ee eS ae GN ee te jar sien . os me

7 OTe af F101 i , 7 a” ; i ; ‘= ‘f ;
i i

| DALHOUSIE GAZETTE
by university students will not be in vain. The ideal of free
q

   

Oe dom will live in China and in Czechoslovakia. Whether or not
ees tt it will live in Canada depends on the extent to which it is |
aze ¢ f imbued in our leaders and especially in our thinkers. We : . Z?
the @llege by the Sea gaia cannot, therefore, afford to leave our opinions in cold : by Tl 1 a
storage. #) >) :

-—s- Founded 1869—“The Oldest College Paper in America”

_--'‘The views expressed in column of THE GAZETTE are those of FE | T AR
a the author; aoe Sy aaaued that they represent the opinion of « ] Cc I O NI . ae & | a I i A I |
its . ae S ' ] ‘ oO y. ’ | xian + . x : ‘i e

 

P Printed by McCurdy Printing Co., Limited, 54 Argyle St., Halifax

Editor: JOHN W. GRANT - - B-8576 Sally Rodgers deftly swung her| been separated from her friends,
: News a A. S. ean - errs shoulder as she handed a five dollar| and she was looking for Terford. ‘i e re LE - - . . . . a bk . . ”
he . oe sb tihoiea a Oe TASMAN S259 bill to the taxi driver. Many admir Come in, my dear, come in!

ei Literary Editor: LOUISE BISHOP Roa: ei). C. U.P. and Exchange: DON BLACK
ee Proof Editor: DAVID COLDWELL | Liaison Editor: WALLACE OGILVIE 
B-9746 | ing glances and black looks followed | Sally found herself in a square lowB-5043 her progress through the crowded| ceilinged room facing a short, thin,

ous station as Sally — young and very | bent old woman with grey hair and

 

 

Viv) qneenstating Manager: BOB McCLEAVE - B-8576 pretty — dashed towards the plat- bright blue eyes and faded rosy
ee Busi Manager: WEBSTER MACDONALD B-0453 form heedless of the blows her skis | cheeks. Her dress and sweater were
pe = x: | nig a was ge as ee wi te neat. Mi 5 cap te a ee ate would never allow her to ang. ou’re just on the backedge rest
ie» * pa OPINIONS IN COLD STORAGE left. Eager hands seized her skis| of Terford, but you’d get lost, and in which chien
ce b In the course of the last few weeks there has been some| ®#S her friends pulled her on the| anyway the train’s gone half an can be smoked.”
| gontroversy about the age-old question of “college spirit”.|'"#™- hour ago. I ain't got a phone so I rh |
P oe The long-standing complaint that Dalhousians don’t think “T thought you’d changed your aCe you'll just have to stay the
| _ enough about their university has been revived and answered| mind.” “You just made it.” “I wish | ight. Take your things off while I
| __ at two pep rallies and several football games. We have a more] had your luck.” “You're not really | Set @ bite of supper. I get kinda .
Re _ serious complaint than that, however, to make against uni-| standing Bill up tonight are you,| /onely here by myself—though mind

versity students at Dalhousie and generally throughout Canada, | Sally?” These and other remarks} "0W» no one has better neighbors

 

| in that they don’t think enough about what is happening| hailed her arrival. The laughing | than I have.” >

_ around them. During the first months of the war a conference | and chattering group moved into the] The little woman bustled off. F A R M E R S |
in held by the Canadian Student Assembly at St. Anne de Bellevue | coach slightly flattered that she was| Sally looked with distaste around

| precipitated a major crisis in university circles and even| willing to break a date to come with| the room. The floor was covered |

| _ furnished an occasion for daily sensational editorials by one of|them. Inexplicably Sally’s spirits| with braided mats. The whitewash CHOCO! A TE MILK
a _ the downtown papers. Since that time student interest in| rose. She was glad she had come.| was scaling off the ceiling, and the

Politics has waned to such an extent that one can almost agree| A cross country skiing trip with| wallpaper was faded. The room was

afi with the statement of a former president of the Students’ | the gang was more fun than a dance | crowded with too much furniture— Is Stimulati It P You Uo!

| __ Council that “Dalhousie students have no interest in discussing| with Bill. It would serve him right|a small organ, whose yellow ivory s Stimulating... eps You Up!

} religion and politics”. It appears that opinions are being held| when he found out she wasn’t going | keys were loose, a hideous parlor

Bt in cold storage until the end of the war. after all. suite, a rude bookcase, and a crack- g

1 This attitude of mind is defended on the ground that our! >, unbroken trail stretched be-| 4 vase on the mantlepiece. There

first task is that of winning the war and that all other pursuits _| was a small fireplace in the corner.
must be subordinate to that. It will readily be granted that if rors Faeroe <roee coun Sally shivered for the place was
the war is won by Germany and her allies all the thinking we unbéarably cold, There was no fire.
a. may do on the subject will have no practical effect. It is not She followed the woman. There

«go certain, however, that planning for a future world is detri- was a diminutive bedroom and dinen mental to the war effort or even that it will be of no effect in ing room. Sally had seen many
ao furthering it. If the realization of our ideals depends on vic- rooms which were larger than this
whole house.

try through woods and fields interspersed with small steep hills, and
the terrain gradually sloped to the
river where the railway was situated in the valley. The crust was
hard, and sparkled like diamonds in

“TASTE THE DIFFERENCE”

 

=

o tory, so also victory depends on the realization of our ideals.

eT ee
+

 

 
  
     

Ae Many of the weaknesses of the democracies in the present war a tt a ae. oe — She found Miss Lang scrambling F aders Drug Stores |
i Bs -~ can be traced to the fact that we have no clear idea of the sort hot day in summer. The fir trees| eggs on a decrepit stove in a tiny 135 HOLLIS STREET MacLeod ™ Balcom S
‘ : yi getty Po Benning es se es oe threw jagged shadows across the| ell kitchen. The ceiling was dis- 29 COBURG ROAD LIMITED ~
- er offered, no capitalistic, democratic Fr , with water stains. In one
but by communistic pathartarian Russia. This Soviet superi- peaet scan ae aheediled monoton- ® C]
\ ority cannot be accounted for by the difference in the technical| “The afternoon has been perfect”) | 1 into a pail. Sally stroked the | | HALIFAX Nova Scotia D .
( skill of the two staffs. It is due in great measure to a general | sighed someone as the group halted) |, tiack cat lying on a chair. scannabemets se some RUGGISTS
i honesty and singleness of purpose which had its origin in| beneath some evergreens to Dae “Why on earth do you live here!”?|| SS Headquarters for Students «
cpa devotion to an ideal, and that ideal is not simply “holy Russia” | sandwiches and coffee. “I thought) 1. “o.claimed. “Well, you see,” | ASK FOR Requirements
| but has far more reference to working class feeling than many | !’4 die when Jim tried to go through) +3 iss Lang, “I’ve lived here DONOVAN’S O
|  __ of us are willing to admit. France was betrayed by dishonesty | the tree, and when Mary nosedived ‘ee q )
=e g Vy most of my life, and I stayed here BEVERAGES HALIFAX - SHEET HARBOUR i

at DAL CANTEEN KENTVILLE, N. S.

dishonesty, was a lack of constructive idealism. Dishonesty | just flew. How much farther Is/ 1 od to it. At first I had some '
46 Granville St. Halifax, N. S.

and betrayal are the fruits of indifference, and indifference can | it?” “About two miles, I guess.”| 71 cose neighbors, but now there’s
be cured only by solid and fearless thinking. Nothing will be| “There’s a short cut if you go this) ) snor place in the village, and I
as fatal to the war effort as a thoughtless acceptance on our| W4y — east — and there are some! oy more than ten dollars rent

By in high places and in low; and the source of that, as of all,| into the fence!” “I declare the day| |. we tnitee diet Tve sort of
Ce.

|

i

 

a) = : : + | Ww ills,” said Sally. “It’s ;

- part of every action which the government may carry out in| Wonderful hills,” sai ont: Gf my pension... ‘Toby here fe !
I) the course of it, with the implied acknowledgement that the| only @ mile, and you come out at) oa company. ‘The man who rents CLASS PINS After any Show
ai resulting peace will be ours only by proxy. eee dneeeat WO Tae sane lebhe house: has promised to fix the

ae The fact is that after more than two years of war many | ‘ht 7 5 en - ase a vp | leak, but he’s never got around to Would you like your
‘} _ of_us still do not know what we are fighting against, let alone i pa A eg elie nee | it Class Pin to be “dif(} ~—_~-what we are hoping to gain from the struggle. The present Mary ys oe “I don't feel like get-|. OT Monday, Sally went to her ferent?” OF a4 6
are. ; ‘ : eee ; ; zet- : ;

"ig war 1S commonly termed “The war against Hitlerism : but we ting’ loat: and’ xlasing the. train.” lawyer’s office for her monthly

| have not shown ourselves against Hitlerism at home as ex-| “"® check. She was rather stiff from Birks styli d
‘\___ emplified in government hostility to unions and in the interning | TP’ thers agreed with Mary. But), rin z lit - Se ae Before an Meal
es os sms ‘ : isi ’ uality, plus Birks ex‘| of labor leaders for opposing the policies of companies which | S#!!y stuck to her decision to go} 7) Caray aed eanloreenal ae TUR Y, BNIB DUNKS ex y
fa) are much less patriotic in their actions than are the great|‘ Terford in spite of their protests. | on icd her the check “Mise perience will assure
he majority of workers. There are numerous incipient Fascists| 1 bet that when you get on the) oe that Mise Lang who rents you of smartness. Think of ... r
an: in Canada, even within our universities, who extol “Anglo-| ‘T@in you'll find me there.” Glanc-| Ue eae Wet ee eee
a 2 ey Fe : oe i ee ing back from the top of the Long that house of yours in Terford has
Pa Saxon” racial superiority as glibly as Julius Streicher lauds his | *™ - H .

Aryan Germans, and who hint mysteriously that “something | Hi! she saw the others straggling Pat pee ne. Seein (snoeE, ser enry Birks & Sons Th
7 f y ae =| towards the Junction. “They acted| repairs. Don’t you think you should LIMITED €

ft Be Bear he detchied te oe ates ae Cina. just like they thought I didn’t Oe ee It Z us crn Registered Jewellers,
a somewhat modified form of authoritarian government, headed | k"°w the way,” muttered Sally, and a ee ri ee capil ta American Gem Society GREEN LANTERN
by a “nice” man who would cooperate with Great Britain and|‘e" the others were forgotten as ped! a eraiekag ie gata eel dein’ 1s Barrington St. - Halifax, N.S.
keep western Europe safe from Bolshevism. ene glided down the hill faster end) an aah ecats t a . ‘
This is, of course, not the opinion of the average man. | ‘!#*te™- She was filled with a sense) Up ne eee ee Ah
Most of us desire to see Hitlerism wiped from the earth because | ° spare ok pte “ ar re ma see ae aa,
it represents to us the summit of oppression, because in the| Pe beautitu Wan is re See Ree
name of socialism it imposes a new form of economic serfdom | ‘Pe top of the hill, : Ree ce PRR
upon all but the Junker aristocracy of a chosen race. We hope| “Pf coiplagpishie ; = + iar
to see a world of peace in which justice will be firmly estab-| ec a * a oe
lished. We even accept (without reading) proposals for a|2¥!ded the ° - fe “2 a eh a
model_peace made by Franklin D. Roosevelt and Winston) por U8 > ee
Churchill. But we do not think about the matter ourselves, se wy si ee ora Oca
and because we do not think we are a dead people. Idle is)? °°". *5° pen. we Te.
the excuse that we must devote all our time to the war effort. | cea a ee 4 ee
English church leaders, engaged in an effort far exceeding ours, | °° ®8@ 75" e Poplars.
have thought it desirable to devote some time to a conference| With a start of fear Sally realizon labour problems. English papers are being deluged with | ed that the pale frosty yellow tinge
letters from interested people on problems of the peace. We) of sunset had disappeared, and the
ourselves take time for everything but thinking, and that/| Shadows were increasing. She was
failure may yet be the cause of a very real defeat. forced to go much slower now beThis matter may seem to be related only very indirectly | C@US* trees and fence posts loomed
to the university. It is not, for learning is the first victim of | UP U™exPectedly out of the gare and
oppression. Japanese bombers were directed towards univer- | Uf@miliar world around her. “Sure‘sities from the very beginning of the Chinese war, and they |!¥_ 1 should have been at Terford
have succeeded very well in destroying them. Hitler has found) Pefre this — Pll miss the train.
it necessary to close the universities of Czechoslovakia. Would} Phe" her left ski hit some sub- ge ! i
he have any reason to close the universities of Canada? They ™°t#°¢ object. Sally pitched for- :
'__ should be centres of a dynamic ideal of democracy, a continual | ¥27™¢ mte the snow. She sat up Ti WESDAYS
* danger to anyone who seeks to impose an unwelcome form of | P2!"fully, and disentangled herself
‘government. Canadian universities are not maintaining that *7°™ her harness. Rubbing the ra
ideal as they ought, and 10 amount of burning Hitler in effigy ov ‘um fer oves she sew 2 |) bedded Khuythore
will make up for that lack. light. Gathering up her skis she
if the universities cannot sive leadership in—the..or- | *um>led towards it. ®
een of the post-war world, then the future is indeed | Sally kneckec on the deer of thal Buckin ham
ca er ree e things must be planned, or the result | cottage. There was no sound from y
Py. wi a slot-machine peace which will satisfy no one) within so she kicked the door. It RAM
} and which will lead to a third war in this ae Even | opened very slowly. Sally explained CIGARETTE PROG
} _ if we should fail to defeat Hitlerism on the battlefield, thinking that she had been skiing, and had

 

Dalhousie GCniversity

Halifax, Nova Scotia

Maintains a High Standard of Scholarship.
Includes all the principal Faculties of a University.
Largest Staff, Libraries, Laboratories in Eastern Canada.

Arts and Science Faculty

 

Degrees: B.A., B.Se., B.Com., B. Mus., Phm. B.

Diplomas: Music, Engineering, Pharmacy, Education.
Four Year Advanced Courses ir. Classics, Mathematics,
Modern Languages and History.
Graduate Courses of recognized standing, leading to degrees )
.

 

 

Courses—preparatory to Professional Faculties.
Course in Public Administration.

 
   
 
 
 
   
   
  

of M.A., M.Se.
Many valuable scholarships, on entrance and through
the courses.

The Professional Faculties

bs ”
Law, Medicine, Dentistry, enjoy an unexcelled reputation.

 

Inclusive Fees: in the B.A. course, average about $160 a year.
in the B.Sc. course, about $190 a year.

 

; ae Residence
Shirreff Hall, residence for women.
Carefully supervised residential faculties for men.

 

 

a J » Sar, lia th, canis - oe
= ee ae oA
“
ya

>
vk

——<..
The March of Grim

it’s part of the Best Man’s duty
to look after the younger relatives, because he seems to be taking the job seriously.

E ee ee ee ee ee ee eS ee ee

HOW TO COPE WITH COLLEGE LECTURES |

te _ Shortly after the start of the College Year, the Frosh suddenly disvA covers that he is expected to (1) Attend Lectures, and (2) Get Something
out of Them. These Revealing Regulations are set forth in the Official| The Shirreff Hall Formal has pass_ Calendar (in Latin) and the average Frosh has no choice but to comply, ed softly into the limbo of the best
_ for it is stated that “everyone attending College must go to Lectures”, or | forgotten past, but we are still won
else. To the uninitiated, this may come as somewhat of a shock, but it is| dering if the Leading Lady of the

Pel

2 not too late, as most Lecturers are only now approaching the Subjects
offered by the Class.

_--~-—«»-While Early High School training prepares you for many College
activities, it cannot Equip you against the College Lecture System. This
is one of the Great Faults of Preliminary Education. The Frosh, when

eo first confronted with the Lecture System, becomes Hopelessly Lost. For

_ Discouraging, but not Disasterous, for presently he will discover that
when the Lecturer is talking about the internal workings of his old
Maxwell, he is merely illustrating the Fact that Milton, as a youth,
favored mass hangings instead of the firing squad. These things will
come in time, but let us present the first steps in the Inscription of the
College Lecture, and use of same. )
he College Lecture System is primarily designed to teach by letting
you Do Things Yourself. Hitherto you have been Led by the Hand, Edu_ eationally speaking, and now you are Facing a New System. No Lecturer
worthy of the name, ever talks about the subject of his class. Thus you
must Adapt yourself to taking down not what he says, but what You
thought he said. This, on future reference, will often be interesting. If
the Lecturer is giving a lively discourse on Milton, and suddenly he
switches to a discussion on Sheep-dipping in Australia, you can take it
_ that this is some vague comparison to Shakespeare. Put down boldly in
your lecture notes that Milton advocated Sanitation in his Tractate on
Education. You are now Getting Somewhere. (Note: The drawings you
make on the opposite page will avail you nothing in the Exams.)

The Frosh will soon learn that each Professor has a different method
of delivering Lectures, though these can be Classified. The most common, and by far the most difficult to follow is the Common or Digressive
type of Lectures. The lecturer, in order to pursue the policy of Letting
you Do Things Yourself, spends at least 95% of the period showing how
the Ancient Greeks could be compared to the even more Ancient Esquimalt, or the Suffocatingly Modern Inhabitant of the Isle of Manhattan,
in his manners and customs. These sidelights have nothing to do with
the Course, but they Make You Think.

The Frosh will be warned to exercise Great Care in taking Notes in
this type of Class. It is Common Practice to Lull the Student into a
Lethargy by this means, and then suddenly rush through Really Important material, without giving him a chance to Recover. The best way
to deal with this type of Lecture is to Relax, and listen to the Tempo of
the Lecturer’s voice. As it becomes increasingly rapid, begin to write,
following the suggestions set forth in the preceding paragraph. In this
way you will be rewarded by catching the Important Points of the
Lecture.

The easiest type of Lecture to follow is the Diagrammatic or I[llustrative Lecture. Here, there remarks of the Professor are amply and
periodically punctuated as he fills the board with Chemical Symbols,
Algebraic Formulae, and other Pictures. Here the Student is torn between Two Desires; To take what is being said by the Lecturer, and to
get the Hieroglyphics from the Board. It is dangerous to attempt both
at first, so the Frosh will be warned to pursue the simpler course of
inscribing only the drawings. Some Professors have developed a Technique of doing both Lecture and Drawing at the same time, but if the
above sugestion is followed, no Harmful Results can be felt.

A third type of Lecturer, now almost Extinct, is the Perennial or

aN , Diehard Lecturer, whe gives the same notes, unrelenting, year in and
year out. In this case it is only necessary to be present at the lecture.
The best method of dealing with this Type is to get somebody’s last years
Notes and follow these to the Last Letter. Pick somebody who got
through the Course—it is safer.

If these Suggestions are applied, you need have no further worry
regarding your College Career, for you will have mastered one of the
most difficult of all the Problems which confront the Student. If, however, you are still Submerged, consult the Dean of the Law School.
You’ve missed your Calling.

» Rufus Rayne From Rangoon «

Episode 5 ie
Now You Know or Red as Rayne

The cloud of ballots was growing

ings as he went. Then followed
Ignatz Schmidt’s signalling corps,
then J. Windebag’s- Lancashire

weeks he wallows in Deep Despair, for he is learning nothing. This is}

daily in intensity, gradually turned
that faint green. A sort of melancholy thud could be heard, which
proved to be nothing more than
Drooley Mouthinwash being pounded methodically by evil-appearing
Xaverians, revelling in Dalhousie
gore. At this moment a startling
shriek could be heard, which could
be seen to be coming from the
sweatered figure.

Who is the sweatered figure?
Wouldn’t you like to know?

Time out for mental subtraction,
and a division could be seen brought
into action by Major Hokum, in addition to a huge neon multiplication
table. Through it all the Hokum
could be sniffed barking furiously,
_ “Fifteen million right shoe laces for
the ordnance corps; Rayne on Saturday for the engineers”. A bunch
of pioneers appeared headed by Elk

quadrille, then Kerl Antuft and his
lobster fisherman, then Sissy Macaroon and the troops. Then followed
corps upon corps upon corpse.

As the eternal green fog lifted
slightly, two figures could be seen
dancing on Lotus Leaves, draped
in tight fitting sweaters. One of
these detached itself, with etherial
grace, and, describing a graceful

| hyperbole, alighted in front of the

corpse. This was none other than
General Hard Hearts, who held the
group enthralled by his elegance.

A horrified scream came from the
lips of Kerl Antuft and the lobster |
fisherman. For it was their hated
enemy—

PROKOV

Ah e
: 7

Frosh Show was the Leading Lady
at this affair.
* co ~
Oh what a column I could write
(So luscious and so fiery)
If I could only lay my hands
On poor Itch Graham’s diary.
* * e
This New Glasgow must be quite
a place to attract the boys through
all that rain last week-end. Ask
Jack?

2 * *

Won’t someone tell us the big
secret about ‘Dooley’. The inferences are really shocking, but de-tails are lacking as to what its
all about. Come clean, kid, it
couldn’t be Peanuts, could it?

Bd * *

Some people will do the darndest
things to get into this column,
though often we will ignore the more
obvious attempts. This includes
Doreen Miller and the long Red
Drawers. Consider yourself ignored, Doreen.

x * x

Interesting observation of the
week. Chas. “Fido” Doyle seems
to have changed his outlook on
life. First the Frosh Show, and
then the Football game, and the

new outlook none other than
Ann Mackley. Hm-m-m.

* * *

Heard after the Girls’ flouroscope
examination. “... and of the five
other girls who were there, I was
the only one Dr. Holland knew in
the dark”. Such confessions.

cs % *

What Charles Gordon was stood
up by which Campus Personality on
Saturday night, Don’t tell us its happened again.

x * *

Does Miller Ballem think that

ae

Good morning, folks, (yawn). Oh
it, anyway, huh? Yeah! you guessed
it isn’t morning. Well what day is
it, we were away with the engineers
on the annual “educational” trip.
Much may be said for bus seats, ask
Johnny McLean, but they are no
good for sleeping.

Well, altho’ we know lots we dassn’t print much ’cause we have no
desire to be lynched. So-o-0 we would
suggest that Ted Canavan should
find a nice quiet corner next time.
Johnny Rogers will tell you that
bottles and skirts have been the
downfall of many a man. We hope
you don’t get us wrong we wouldn’t
think of gossiping, but let us tell
You...
is quite a romeo the Amherst school
girls weren’t impressed and so he

had to forget his troubles and in)
the end was feeling. quite “happy’’ |

about the whole thing. It seems that

Mt. A. holds more than Shorty Mus-_
setts o. and o. Eisenhauer and Hub- |
ley say they had a good time, were |
still wondering just what makes a/

“good-time”. Any statements gentlemen—because we think the worst.
Charlie Fowler is expected to appear
with a new chapeau as a result of a
fued enroute. Our congrats to Bennet and Graham — are your will
powers developing or didn’t anyone offer you any? Conspicious by
their absence were Santz and Men
. that altho’ George Smith |

 

x * *

We understand that there are
some very attractive Maids at Pine
Hill this year, which may account
for the popularity of the same institution to certain members of the
Stewdent Body. “Lightning” Forbes
seems to think so, anyway. De gustibus non disputandum est.

We should like to apologize to
Miss Rose for the item last week.
For difficulty in “securing a date”
read “dates for friends” throughout.
Damon and Pythias had no monopoly on that sort of thing,

ES * *

Kay is on the loose again. We find
it particularly hard to keep up with
her transgressions. Possibly Sir
Brian, the Lion, of H.M.S. King’s
will finally settle her down.

DAT. &.

Dal Organ of Puerile Enigmas

Where Were You When the Lights
Went Out Sunday?

Ed Wier, Ist Year Pre-Med.

I was enjoying the beauties of
Nature. Gosh, ain’t Nature grand.
Gosh I was surprised when those
lights went out.

Colin Smith, 3rd Year Arts.

Oo-h, wait a minute... Yes! Out
side Brookfield’s office, wondering
if Shelley was really a snake. (?Ed.)
Betty Bird, 3rd Year Arts.

Oh Boy, Oh Boy! Right where I
wanted to be.

Helen MacKay, 2nd Year Science.
.. 1 was with Betty. (Loud Screams)

Don’t put anything down for me,
I mean, darn you anyway...
Dave Doig, 3rd Year Commerce.

Gosh . . . where was I? Golly, I
guess I was home I guess.
Unidentified Freshette.

Some of us were in Fader’s Drug
Store, and gee, everybody was running around grabbing people ...
Say, why do you care.

ORPHEUS

Monday, Tuesday, Wed.

“AMONG THE LIVING” “MOUNTAIN MOONLIGHT”

Thursday, Friday, Saturday

> “DOWN MEXICO WAY”
“WE GO FAST”

Nov. 24, 25 and 26
“TEXAS”
“TWO LATINS FROM
MANHATTAN”

ARN
Ree)

LO a
WO

5 wy

\S

OXFORD

Friday - Saturday
“BRIDE CAME C.O. D.”
“BULLETS FOR O’HARA”

Monday and Tuesday
“BLONDIE IN SOCIETY”
“PARSON OF PANAMA”

Wednesday and Thursday

‘KISSES FOR BREAKFAST’
“OUT OF THE FOG”

The New

CASINO

*

November 13 to 19

Alexander Korda’s

“LYDIA’

with

MERLE OBERON
ALAN MARSHAL

Saturday, Monday, Tuesday

“PITTSBURGH KID”
and “LUCKY DEVILS”

Wed., Thurs., Friday

“THE TERROR” and
“MYSTERY OF ROOM 13”

’ FRI - SAT. - MON.

ROBERT
MONTGOMERY

in

“Here Comes
Mr. Jordan”
wv
TUES... - WED. - THUR

GEORGE BERNARD
SHAW’S

“Major

; a PET et ht

NS Pe \ PM Come sig jit

SSH

AN
MacLoud, exploring an acre or two x
of freshettes, bursting forth in
_—spoetry, “Kish me good night, Ser-|_
x. i _geant Major”. Sergeant Major
_ _Balaam was following as close upon
+e him as he dared, urging on his de‘4 ~——s contamination squad to greater ef3 ee - forts. It was a situation for a|

&

chions who we know had dates spot- Se \
ted ahead of time, : : <<

Wiswell’s not satisfied with Miss
Tobin he had to chase Barb. W.
right down to the dressing room.
We understand from an interview
that Bob Mussett enjoyed her visit
last weekend. Hagen would do well
to remember that opportunity only

Each time you taste ice-cold “Coca-Cola,” you are reminded
that here is the quality of genuine goodness. Experience ...
many a refreshing experience ... has taught people everyleft the door open? where to trust the quality of “Coca-Cola.” 5
What is this reactionary villian

doing in Major Hokum’s corpse? THE COCA-COLA COMPANY OF CANADA, LIMITED

*,

master, and the master apeared in
; a ‘

» shape of Wubber MacTunnelled,
10 darted to and fro, a solon under

f
Lig
is ;

Can it that Dalhousie is being
victimized by a counter-revolutionary plot?

knocks once — we wouldn’t accuse
Bill of a faint heart, but there must
be a reason.

HALIFAX

 
 
 
   
 
   
     
      

¥
et
at
- ; ee war.
- — —
i Ps 7 a 7 - thie”
wf nN owe ah io
1 a *
0 ye Gh
2 ee +e tA
J a "
he 7 }
eS : ins ss
Some Ee
; .
‘ i
t
;
y |
: :
\ S r te
;
: i
.
i

al alee, even death the

is shining, and the weather
ly was like spring. For Dal’s
for the Maritime Senior Rug
. ampionship went a-glimmering
Ecce the onslaught of the football
zy preseuce from Antigonish. The
er | ors 0F the field as epee ns

et team’s wei League eae For the
oe peters ge brought out fifteen men

Pear a to razor-edge ree and

: Se pola oa gud pass, trickily
iN i) and accurately. The team boasted
Bit half a dozen excellent kickers. And
i pape the scrum was fanatical in
_ its eagerness to get up on the ball,
_ no matter where it might be. As a
Re ‘consequence “Dooley” McIntosh, the
- Day picking quarter, was continually
ihe _ smothered by the fast-charging An__ tigonish scrum and half line.
Upon opening of play, the two
_ teams tested each other’s strength.
at centre field with scrums and long
_ kicks, but neither seemed to have
an advantage. Half way through
_ the first session, however, the Blue
and White backfield snared a loose
_ ball at midfield, and swept down the
- edge of the field, eluding all Dal
_ tacklers, to make it 3-0 for the
_ visitors. Grant, who made the try,
Was moving with the speed of a
_. whippet when he finally hit his
_ stride, and even the “last ditch”
_. defence of Fiendel and Webber
couldn’t stop him. This score, to_ gether with the furious fighting de_ fence the Xaverians threw up,
Ry peeeemed to take much of the sting
out of the Tiger drive, so that actuMaly the Dal squad never threatened
_ for the remainder of the contest.
_ They seemed to be too busy keepA ing the visitors from pouring
a ~ through to further scores,
__ In the stands there appeared to
be a great deal of dissatisfaction
_ with the way the game was handled.
_ -It was.suggested by many that the
- second St. F. X. score should never
ave counted, because it originated
n an off-side play. But even not
ou ting the second score, the visitors showed too much class for our
ae etiners. The Tigers weren’t playing
their best game of the season, it is
certain. But on the day’s play, the
_ Antigonish fifteen had a decided
rf oy edge.
‘hid _ But even though the- gold and
ef black aggregation did not win, and
 o as qj team did not show to great
ae advantage, nevertheless there were
c instances of excellent rugby, and
high courage, on the part of Dal
layers. Marty McDonald, who
_ didn’t have much chance to show bis
_fleetness of foot on the three-quart_ er line, was continually diving into
the mud to break up Xaverian
ee through the Dal line. Russ
_ Webber was doing yeoman work in
_ his fullback position, holding his
ae own on exchanges of long kicks with
_ the opposing fullback, and outdoing
i himself dragging down individual
_ opposing players as they raced for
_ the Dal line. Captain Jo-Jo Feindel
_ was tackling hard in spite of the
weight and speed of the opposing
. ‘team. “Dooley” McIntosh, who was
: aying the hardest position on the
he Reb. in the picking quarter position
took a lot of undeserved advice from
Nee the stands, and a terrific beating
in the Xaverians, when he was
left holding the ball under two and
three” man charges by the visitors,
‘ who were breaking quickly from the
Bc and swarming through on
top of him. “Yank” Forsythe, who
has been a sparkplug for the Tigers
i _ throughout the season,, was a mark\ Ned oe throughout the contest, but
vertheless managed to make long
to relieve the pressure, even

 

 
  
 
 
   
 
   
 
   
  
    
  
   
   
  
 
 
   
  
   
 
  
    
  
  
  
 
 
 
 

ir
ze

- 4 ‘i
" +
mat 7
* Se ae

by AL. MacLEOD

 

Tho’ Tigers fought, devoid of: fears,
(While we looked on with scanty cheers),
We lost the game—and now regretful tears
Adulterate our sympathetic beers.

The unhappy Tigers—St. F. X. set-to on Remembrance Day saw the
Dalhousie fifteen come to the end of a season which was both successful
and unsuccessful. The showing that the Tigers made throughout the

| City League schedule was gratifying: that they would win the local

championship was more than we had dared hope at the beginning of the
season. But having won the City League title, and thereby qualified for
McCurdy Cup play, and a crack at the Maritime Senior Rugby Cham‘| pionship we had considered it a distinct possibility that the gold and
black warriors would climax their campaign victoriously ,and go out in
a blaze of glory. At least we thought that until we saw the Xaverians
in action. The big Blue and White machine dashed all our fondest hopes
to the ground, and we couldn’t help feeling a mite disappointed when it
was over. For we had come to think of the Tigers as a team of supermen, who could overcome any obstacle to attain their desired goal.

But we were judging the football standard of the rest of the province
by the calibre of play demonstrated in the local league, ‘and there’s where
we made our mistake; for the Antigonish representatives were in a class
by themselves. They played the fast-charging, quick-kicking, and accurate-passing type of game which we had come to associate with incomparable teams from Caledonia—and they did it as well if not better.

From the opening whistle, the Tigers were on the defensive, stopping the visitors’ onrush with sheer “gutty” playing. When the Tigers
managed to get inside the Antigonish twenty-five yard line, they were
powerless to go further: and that’s the place where a team of champions
must be able to “turn it on”. In spite of what appeared to be spotty
refereeing, and in spite of a lack of the “breaks”, it must be confessed
that this was just a case of a good team meeting a better one. The St.
F. X. squad relied on a two-fisted attack, (and at times that was literally
true), and the Dal fifteen were swept before it.

But our Tigers need not be disappointed in themselves. They won
six of the eight games they played this year, defeating Acadia twice, and

taking the City League championship. They had drive, fight and a willto-win, and are a credit to the University, and to the students who sup
ported them (not too often, and not too well).

It was no disgrace to

be beaten by the team that represented St. Francis Xavier, and the Tigers,
individually and collectively, may well be proud of themselves.

It was somewhat disappointing to discover that the Dal student
body wasn’t interested in a Pep Rally the night before the St. F. X. game.
The function was sprung upon the undergraduates rather unexpectedly,
and with only short notice. But it was hoped that even so, a great number of students would turn out, if not to show their enthusiasm, at least

to enjoy themselves.

Few did turn out, but those who did were not only

enthusiastic, but also pleased with the program provided by the Students’

Council.

It has been rumored that for those who are not satisfied with

the entertainment provided by the Council, the Filthy Fifteen will import
a three-ring circus to attract students to the next social function.

 

T-Squares Tangle

My Lord Turner.
“Jack” Hartigan,

See My Lord
that most eloquent of cursitors, as he pleads with

With Legal Eagles the bystanders to put a small wager
oO

Just before he was forcibly removed to a madhouse, a Gazette
correspondent turned in the following write-up of an _ interfaculty
rugby game played by Law and Engineers last week:

Behold a motley crew of Engineers (pronounced Efigin-ers), ragged
and unkempt, enjoined in harmonious chant:

“Roses are red, violets are blue,

Pettifogging proctors — wait’ll
we get you...”

Consider the vacant aspect of
Hagen and Wiswell, as they carelessly hunt the shy and crimson
daisy, and place it in long and fragrant garlands about the neck-like
necks of other gazelle-like Bingeineers. The setting reflects the
calm and peace of the pastoral
scene. See Don Large and Bob
Wickwire reclining in Cleopatrian
ease and splendor. See Frank McKay and Gerald Prat rejoicing in
their infancy, converthing in childith
lithpth, and constructing with idle
hands the artistic mudpie. All is
calmness and serenity save for one
sombre note. Behold against the
sky-line the ragged forms of Musset, Moore and Moire, who rend the
morning stillness with hoarse and
unholy cries of “Backsheesh, Backsheesh, — alms for the love of
Allah,”

But what is this? Into view has
come the procession of the Gentlemen of the Long Robe, in fulsome
finery, in solemn splendor. See with
what fine contempt My Lord Lemoine- views the Barbarous Bingeineers. See My Lord MacDonald,
A. J:, the People’s Choice, scanning
the horizon for a statuesque blond.
View the fine fury of My Lords
Dunsmore, Rettie and Forbes when

 

 

n the nose of My Lord “Dunc”
Chisholm, whom My Lord Hartigan
erroniously believes is running in
the next race. And finally, see with
what acumen and perspicacity My
Lords Vaughan, Hicks and Nieman
select all that is best of the overripe fruit which descends upon the
legal entourage in well-aimed
showers.

But hear the clarion call to arms!
See with what violent speed the
Binge-ineers descend upon the Lega!
Fraternity! Hear with what epithets
and imprecations the air is filled!
See with what dexterity the Bingeineers lash out with kicks at My
Lords‘ legal extremities! How skilfully the Joyful Jurists entangle the
morbid Musset mob in endless red
tape! See the struggle ebb and Gow |
across the landscape!

(Details of gory encounter censored, to conceal D&al’s’ military
strength from rival C.O.T.C’s).

The earnage continues, but the
struggle is in its dying moments.
Neither party has an advantage.
Suddenly My Lord Hartigan picks
up a ball of pigskin, and thinking |
to convert it into a’sow’s ear, obligingly hands it to a nearby Bingeineer, saying: “See what you, mv |
uncomely friend, can do with this.”
Said Binge-ineer accepts it with a
malicious and hollow laugh, and
runs past My Lord Hartigan in the
direction of Shirreff Hall. ‘ Whereupon all My Lords fall into a great
groaning, and make a mournful outcry. Quoth then My Lord Turner,
quoth he: “The bubble is burst, the
game is up, all is lost: sic transit
gloria mundi.” Whereupon the Blatant Binge-ineers organize a triumphant St. Vitus’ dance, and the
Legal Eagles retire to relative ob
 

- Company’s representatives. It is

 

It really is a sheer disgrace

That we must fill this little space

With idle chatter—

But Webby’s “ad’s”
have places

To show their bright and shining
faces,

So—oh, what does it matter?

If you’re not mentioned on this page,

Don’t fly into a heathen rage,

And call the staff a bunch of cads—

We'd gladly print the stuff you’d
read,

And a lot of the stuff we think you
need,

If Webby would only be one of the
lads,

And stop turning in those gol-darned

Ads!

must needs

HELP YOUR COUNTRY
and

PROTECT YOUR FUTURE
_ through the new

“VICTORY
POLICY”

It is your duty to invest regularly
in War Savings Certificates and
other war loans to the utmost of
your ability. Yet you need adequate insurance protection too!

Since most eae er have only a
limited amount of money for investment, how can these two essential needs be met? The new
“Victory Policy” developed by
The Mutual Life of Cass provides the answer.

Premiums are exceedingly low
for a fixed period of years while
you are investing in War Savings
Certificates. And even at the end
of this period, when the rate is
adjusted, the premium is still |
lower than you would normally
pay. Moreover, you will be able
to use the proceeds of your War
Savings Certificates as they mature to pay the premiums.

Perse!

> ae — > + = 4
—P sae ne Ps FD yp alt Py

November 14, 1941

s Tumbled By Leslous Xaverians

Four Expert Barbers to Improve
Your Appearance and no

CUT FLOWERS, etc.

 

from long waiting at
JACK MITCHELL’S
THE FLOWER SHOP Tawi BEOD
B-7133 41 SPRING GARDEN ROAD
Eat at. : ‘ THE
EVANGELINE The NATIONAL FISH CO.
TEA ROOM LIMITED

FRESH FISH SPECIALISTS
HALIFAX NOVA SCOTIA

564% SPRING GARDEN ROAD
B-9571

 

Specializing in Leather - 
Brief Cases and Paper Cases
of All Kinds. At Reduced
Prices.

KELLY’S LIMITED

118 Granville St. B-6902

 

 
    
   
    
     

Compliments of

| S. Cunard and Co., Limited

HEAT MERCHANTS SINCE 1835

 

Hard Coal, Soft Coal, Coke, Fuel Oil

Halifax, N. S. Dartmouth, N. S.

 

SPECIAL FEATURES

The “Victory Policy” has a number of attractive features which
will be explained to you by the

a permanent plan that has been
especially prepared to meet your
immediate needs and to provide
future protection as well. Students,
and others with modest incomes,
will find it particularly helpful.

Ask your nearest Mutual Life representative for complete details of this
plan. Or write to The Mutual Life

of Canada, Waterloo, Ont.
THE

  
 

MUTUAL [FE

ESTABLISHED 1369
“Owned by the Policyholders”

9. or an added dash of color and vigor—Tip Top

Tailors prescribes Kinross

finest groups of tweeds to come our way in years.

Long-wearing, smart-looking, ina gay galaxy of
colors and patterns—Kinross Tweeds by Tip Top
are the answer to the college man’s demand for
a reasonably-priced tailored-to-measure suit that
fits into the picture on almost any occasion,

$39.

 

STUDENTS!

MAKE GORDON B. ISNOR’S
YOUR HEADQUARTERS FOR

OVERCOATS
FURNISHINGS

SUITS SHOES

—and save on every purchase by taking
advantage of our Special Students’
Discount at...

GORDON B. ISNOR’S

69 Gottingen Street — Halifax, N. S.

Tweeds, one of the

75

 

     
 

gh continually surrounded by| they behold five aces in the hand of | SCUTitv, in search of spiritual resing players. Jack McKenzie fortification. PS
i many drives with his tackl-| couldn’t cope. with the frenzied. L
» ing and long kicks, high-spirited drive of the visitors.|__‘P4- Note: Engineers . won 3-0 Limited
| In the final analysis, it wasn’t| and seemed powerless to get inside Hatvey) McHattie getting ‘the onlr 422 BARRINGTON STREET
_ Dalhous: a day. The team just the Xaverian twenty-five yard line try).

 

ue m jus 3 re, Carl W. Merson, Dartmouth Agent

   
