 

   

if

ae i
hs i

Zt Hh

 

| Vor. LXXIV

HALIFAX, N. S., JANUARY 16, 1942

 

 

 

 

| Red Cross Dance

“On with the dance! let joy be un
Pity I
pee tad

-confiined;

No sleep till morn when Youth and

Pleasure meet

- To chase the glowing bisa with

flying feet

| 2 For the benefit of the Canadian Red

Cross,
Under the provisions and regula
 ® tions of

The War Charities Act, 1939’.

 

Byfar the brightest and gayest

occasion of the 1942 social whirl

i
ee

I

2)

ryt

will be the Red Cross Ball which will

be staged with all due formality in

the Dal gym this coming Friday
night, January 23rd. The event is
more than a mere excuse for donning the best bib and tucker, for
setting the tonsorial tresses in most
becoming whirls, or for tripping the

slightly hackneyed light fantastic

toe. For this is a time when the
good undergraduates of Dalhousie
can rally round an excellent cause
and lend it their most enthusiastic
support. It has been decided that
the expenses of .putting the dance
over must be pared to an absolute

- minimum, and the money thus saved

, .

7


   
  
  
    
   
     
   
     
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
  
 
  
 
 

devoted to The Cause. Consequently, therefore, a great deal of volunteer effort is required of the student
body, in order to bring about a
successful culmination of the elaborate plans drawn up by the Com
_ mittee.

What is essential, primarily, is
that every student attend the function, even if it be at the expense of
his own private little plan for
merrymaking. For while undoubtedly the Red Cross Ball will be a
gala affair, and certainly a highlight of the entertainment year, yet
it will be more than that. Your
presence at the function will indicate a desire to pitch in and help in
a most worthy cause. The Canadadian Red Cross is doing a magnificent and noble work, and it requires
the physical, moral and financial

 

Don Kirkpatrick, president of the
Glee Club is sending out an urgent
plea for male actors to appear in the
three-act production “Big eHarted
Herbert”. There is no lack of female talent but the male of the
species is proving a trifle reticent
in displaying his abilities. The
production is set for the last week
in February. Meanwhile plans are
proceeding for the presentation of
three one-act plays in competition
for the Bennet Shield.

 

assistance of you, and you, and
YOU.

What better way to show that
your head and your heart is in the
right place than by turning out next
Thursday night with the young
lady? Here is a good time to be
had, and a good cause to be supported. Dalhousie University,
through its Student Council has
taken upon itself to assist in this
excellent work. It now rests with
the individual student to do his part.

Therefore let sociability and conviviality abound! Let there be festive footing and hilarious hopping.
On with the jovial jiving and the
lilting leaping. C’mon, chillun, let’s
dance!

 

?

d DIPO :

>

Do You Think the Japanese Will Take Singapore?
Remembering that the past prediction of a former DIPO question

 

One Moment Blcuse |

The Interfaculty Basketball league will get under way in the Dal
gym next Thursday night with two games being scheduled. Law is slated
to meet their Forrest rivals, Medicine, while King’s will come up against
the Engineers. The games are to start at 7 p.m. sharp. All interfaculty
basketball games wil ltake place on Thursday evenings between 7 and
8 p.m.

* BS * *

There will be an important meeting of the Student’s Council on
Tuesday. Members of the Malcom Honour Award Comimttees are to
be chosen,

* & * *

A general meeting of Delta Gamma has been called for Tuesday,
January 20, in Room 3 of the Arts Building at noon. A large turnout
is requested,

2k Be ee

Don’t forget Thursday nights at eight o’clock. Dalhousie Basketball night. Show your College spirit by supporting your team.

ey tie age «

A short meeting of the D.A.A.C. was held on Tuesday noon. Final

changes were made in the budgets and the hockey situation was dis+
cussed.

of * * *

Before the practice match against the Y.M.C.A. on Tuesday evening,
Moose MacLeod was unanimously elected basketball captain to lead the
1942 squad. Blushing furiously, the Moose gracefully accepted the honor,
hinting darkly of some duty to his Co-Ed following.

Co-Eds, Weary of Life Alone
Maintain That Men Too Cold

Have Grown

ne

Declare Age of
Chivalry Dead

Perhaps the most soul-searing and
poignant story ever to come out of
Dalhousie was revealed within the
past forty-eight hours to the patrons of “Roy’s”.. For the first time
in the long and happy history of
this institution, Dalhousie men are
accused of being inconsiderate and
ungallant. Appearing on the scene
with dishevelled hair, weary and
red-eyed from continued weeping, a
number of young ladies from Shirreff Hall disclosed how it felt to be
left by the wayside, unwanted and
unsung, by the treacherous lowlifes of the university who once
masqueraded as the genus male.
The young complainants maintained
that their cup of happiness had
turned to gall, that youth held no
more promise, and that life had become a hollow.mockery. The inquiring reporter, sensing a story, asked

 

 

That’s all there is to it, gentlemen.
Go, then, and follow this advice, and
who will be able to say that the
the age of chivalry has passed?

THURSDAY EVENING
DAL SOCIAL NIGHT

Plans are being completed to
make every Thursday evening, Dalhousie’s official “get together night”,
Beginning at eight o’clock two
Senior basketball games will be
presented and there is to be dancing in the gym after the games.
During the course of the’ games,
spectators will be informed of the
various plays and scores by means
of a running commentary over the
Public Address System.. It is up to
each and every Dalhousian to make
this a real social evening. Bring
your girl, watch some of the best
basketball in the Maritimes and then
stay for the dancing.

 

 

had “saved” Moscow, we decided to help the huge fortress of the East.
Results were not so good. However, there is about an even chance, with

_ 40% saying “No”, and 48% thinking it would fall to the “little yellow
iy bellies”. 2% were doubtful.

Affirmative answers included this one: “If
they want to,” and the choicest doubtful was, “They’ll make a stab at it.”
/ For recent details of the “stab” read the latest papers). One negative
answer was inspired by Authority Huxford.

3) ee oe

, y a) ' Your Favorite Radio Program?
rs a _ Although 28%, the largest single group, had no preference, the

_ Fibber McGee-Molly program had a clear edge over the rest with 25%

ie the votes. Tied for second place were Jack Benny, the Aldrich Fam
, and Silver Theatre, each having 8%, and other votes went to Super
man (Is it a bird? Is it a beast? Does it Live? No—it’s Superman).

‘i ; ‘sone Gram (my middle name belongs to Mamma) Swing, Lushus

“Quiz, the News, the Philharmonic, Dr. Stewart, and Charlie McCarthy,
a oO Se

How Often Do You Write Home?

mh 38% write once a week, 12% once a month. Another/wrote early
: n broke. Among others were the boys who condescended to write

ee bat twice a month, and there was even one individual who

   
 
 
  
 
 
   
 
 

; . . other ue what was meant by “home”; one wrote 4/5th of a letter a

written for over a year, though he had a legitimate excuse. Ansk, and the last we asked only wrote when he had no female connec
; , city. (Probably suffering from the L'il Abner complex.)
oned rev _ they were from Halifax. Only writer among
dua who skipped the parental abode at New
a , explaining his absence through

ived ir Decan but looked just like the

  

some questions.

It delevoped that the Dalhousie
co-eds have been left standing at
the Hall door.* No longer is the
Hall phone in constant use. In essence, since the Christmas holidays,
there have been no dates for Hall
women. And they’re beginning to
worry about it more than slightly.
They’re willing to go half way. If
only somebody will ask them out,
they’ll go blind, dutch, or any other
way. Gone are the days when only
a car would lure them out. In their
present state, they’ll settle for any
ragged tramp who has the price of
a carfare or a couple of small
cokes.

Especially stricken, it seems, (although it is said the condition is to
be found elsewhere in the Hall) is
the Second Floor. Volunteers are
therefore requested from the manpower of the university. All you
have to do is call up the Hall, and
in a relatively masculine voice, say:

“Tell some of them babes to be

waiting on the steps sometime between seven and eight tonight, and
when I get there I’ll take my pick”.

  

SPECIAL NOTICE
To Whom It May Concern:

We, the undersigned, being
sound in mind and body, do hereby serve notice upon all available
males of Dalhousie University,
THAT

1 Life has been giving us the
run-around, and enough is too
much,

2 We are free, white, almost
twenty-one (but that’s none of
your business anyway), and unattached.

3 It’s high time somebody did
something about it, else we'll go
crazy from boredom.

4. Interested persons, (naturally only males will be considered) will do well to call any
or all of the undersigned, at
B-9745, or B-9746, or call at Shirreff Hall
Ask for any or au of the sollow
ing:

         
 
      
       
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
     
   

_FREE SKATING AT ARENA FOR DAL STUDENTS

Makes Appeal

Ss

a. oe i Rs ey
at: oper ae Ts
hd wee Pe ieee ¥

. iH F ey Ln
4 er '

No. 12

 

Arrangements ‘Mie By Council
Provides Entry By Council Ticket

As a concession to skating enthusiasts and in substitution
for a Campus Rink, the Student Council has negotiated an
arrangement with the Halifax Arena officials whereby Dal

students by presenting their

Council tickets may gain ad
mittance free of charge to any regular skating sessions con
ducted by the Arena.
per capita basis.

Admiral Taylor

Speaks Before
Large Audience

o* * *

On War Problems
Addresses Meds

A large and appreciative audience
which overflowed into the aisles
gathered in the Medical Science
building last Thursday afternoon to
hear Admiral Sir Gordon Taylor,
Vice-President of the Royal College
of Surgeons and Surgeon-Consultant
to the Admiralty, who spoke on the
various changes in training of doctors since the outbreak of the war
and of the advances made in Medicine as a result of the war.

Medical students, professors and
practicing physicians composed the
gathering, which listened intently as
Admiral Taylor described experiences in attempting to gain the services of American doctors for duty
overseas on the Civilian Home
Front.

In describing the advancement
made by Medicine in war time, Admiral Taylor pointed out that sulphanilimide is being used in the
treatment of all wounds and has
proven of phenomenal success in
cutting down blood poison fatalities.

 

He also explained the method by
which London hospitals and medical
colleges have been decentralized as
@ precaution against bombing raids.
Patients, as soon as they are in a
condition to be moved, are disbursed
to outlying hospitals fifty or more
miles away from the metropolis.
Medical students themselves carry
on their studies in rural surroundings far from localities of potential
bombing operations.

 

Congratulations to Sergeant Harlowe on his newest acquisition. During the vacations Mrs. Harlowe presented him with a nine pound baby
MacAskill.

The entire O.T.C. joins in wishing
Sergeant Lockhart a speedy recovery. He is at present in hospital,
having undergone an appendicitis
operation.

 

A hearty welcome back to Sergeant-Major MacLean, who was
taken from us for a while by headquarters. Apparently the Sergeant
is as indispensable to them as he is
to us.

Secret maneuvers are being planned for a syllabus of the O. T. C.
tomorrow afternoon. We are not
able to divulge the full details, but
it is understood that the manevers
are to be carried out by land, sea

and air.

—® The decision as

The Council is paying the Arena on a

regards these
skating sessions was arrived at by
the Council after considerable discussion concerning the feasibility of
building an outdoor rink on the Dal
campus. It was finally decided that
such a venture would be fraught
with too much uncertainty to make
it a worth while investment. But
it was realized by the Council members that some sort of arrangement
should be made to provide skating
facilities for Dalhousie students.

Finally, the present scheme was
decided upon and Murray Rankin
has been completing the negotiations over the Christmas vacations.
Tickets are being printed which
must be signed at the Arena each
time a student presents his Council
card, in order that a fairly accurate
check may be kept on the number
of students who avail themselves
of the opportunity to use the Rink.

CAMPUS
CLIPPINGS

BY DON BLACK

Intercollegiate sport has been
banned by Queens, Toronto, McGill
and Western for the duration of the
war. This decision was made over
the holidays at a meeting of the
presidents ‘of those universities.
Student polls conducted by the
campus newspaper at the four colleges however expressed strong support from all the students that the
intercollegiate sports should be
carried on in a limited way.

The decision of the university
heads does not affect Dalhousie as
we will abide by the decision reached at Sackville during the autumn
that two exhibition games away
from home will be allowed in each
sport.

The attitude of the college heads
in Ontario and Quebec stands out
in contrast to that of the American
collegiate sport authorities who at
Detroit shortly after the outbreak
ef the Jap war laid down a: policy
of keeping up sport as much as
possible to aid the physical condition of the youth of the country
and to keep up morale. The U. S.
Congress recently heartily endorsed
the continuation of big league baseball in war time so one suspects
that there is a strong case against
the “Big Four” decision.

 

STOP PRESS

Dal Steamrollers
To Victory

In the first game of the Halifax
City Basketball League played on
Thursday evening, the Dalhousie
Tigers earned a 33-19 victory over
the R.C.A.F. Half-time score was
11-10 in the Tiger’s favor, and in
the second half the collegians, led
by Ben Wilson and Al McLeod piled
up a 13 point surplus to sew up the
match. For further details see next
week’s Gazette.

 

‘
jf

 

i

   
 
  

 
  
 
 
 
  
  
   
 
 
  
  
 
   
 
 
   
 
  
   
     

_ Founded 1869 — dex Oldest College Paper in America”
in any bbe of THE GAZETTE are those of

“GALETTE. ‘STAFF

d itor: JOHN. W. GRANT - - - - : B-8576

ews Editor: A. S. FORSYTH - - - - - S-2936

vorts Editor: AL MACLEOD - : - - - B-8576

atures Editor: JOHN TASMAN - - - - S-2597

Wt ee ee LOUISE BISHOP - - - - - B-9746
|U.P. and Exchange: DON BLACK - - -\ - ~~ B-5043.

| Proof Editor: DAVID COLDWELL - - - - - B-8576
_  lLaison Editor: WALLACE OGILVIE - - - -  B-6568
Circulation Manager: BOB McCLEAVE -  - - -  B-8576,
Manager: WEBSTER MACDONALD " - : eae

- - -9311

Staff ene DON OLAND 
4 —. —.. SA = — = = — = = — — SS ~— SS" ~—>

DARE WE BE INTELLECTUALS?

_ “Intellectuals” are an object of much suspicion in the
modern world. It is apparently believed by many that college

professors spend a good deal of their time plotting to overturn
_ the government, and a student concourse is regarded with more
palpitation of heart than a group of sinister Russians with

. Certainly a type of “intellectual” has much to answer for
F Galey. The German brand of Fascism, for instance, is not
i altogether a product of beer hall putsches and underground
_ cabals. It has been also a product of the salon, with an intel- lectual history which may be traced back to the nineteenth
yeaa y Houston Stewart Chamberlain, an Englishman who

adopted German nationality, was one of its pioneers. His
Me doctvine was taken up and expanded in the Stefan George

  
  
 

o circle, and today has grown into a world-wide metaphysical
fi menace, threatening to engulf those ideas and patterns of life
i which have become almost part of our nature.

yo - Today physical war is being waged upon a world scale.
ty, ‘It is our peril that our close attention to that war may blind
us to the greater intellectual, even spiritual war which is going
on. It is undeniably true that most participants in this present
war are not fighting for ideologies, that some countries have
th accept allies they would far rather be fighting against. It is
Pk ha true, however, that military aggression by the German
armies is a part, albiet a very large part, of a doctrinal world
_ revolution. Our propaganda ought to recognize this fact,
_ ought to realize that we are being opposed by a force whose
intellectual wing cannot be defeated by a mere giving out of
- information.

. Some controversey has gone on from time to time about
the vexed question, Are we fighting the German people or
i eeely the Nazi leaders? The question is quite academic.
_ Certainly National Socialism has the support of a great many
~ people in Germany; just as certainly, it hasn’t the support of
every German. What we are fighting is something greater
Er and more dangerous than either of these—a fantastic phil/ osophy of cruelty in control of several of the great nations of

_the world and threatening all the others. Now we are not for
_ one moment suggesting that since National Socialism is a philé . osophy it can be fought only in a battle of textbooks and tomes.

War is the very lifeblood of this philosophy, therefore military
_ defeat will inflict upon it a disaster from which is may never
recover. But a war upon a philosophy will be fought upon more
, Rthan one front, and the tactics may be different from those of

a mere commercial war. For one thing, we ought frankly to
wie. it that a German or Italian can be an anti-Fascist, and we
_ Shall be not only unjust but even very negligent if we fail to
the give full support to all such we find, in the hope that they
_ may be able in time to achieve control of their governments,
eS On the other hand, we should not be too gullible in accepting
all who are opposed to the governments of their own country is
_ as genuine anti-Fascists. An anti-Hitlerite who shared most
i _ of the essential beliefs of the National Socialist party would
_ be a very dangerous ally. Further, we should be careful to
hunt’ out Fascist ideas and: habits of thought in our own
} country. Our overt Fascists, such as Adrien Arcand, have

It is quite

Pats ae

ae
=— —

Pes

=a
a

Se a

 

 
 
  
 
  
   
  
   
  
   

a
ie
per
e
iif

usually appealed to our sense of the ridiculous.
possible, however, that there are other people in higher places,
and not so ridiculous, who might find Fascism useful or agreeable. We don’t, of course, imagine for a minute that the great
- majority of the capitalist class would prefer Fascism to the
present order of things, but incipient tendencies might well be
checked now.
-. Science has taught us to be modest, to admit often that
truth escapes our grasp and that much of the truth we do
ms ' possess is quite relative. But no true son of western civiliza_ tion can believe that truth does not matter at all, that it is an
by > outworn concept. The world is in danger of losing centuries
_ of its progress. That loss may be staved off by military defeat
i the Axis. But even more effective may be an undaunted
re iSband for truth on the part of those who have an abiding
ih affection for it. To win this intellectual war we. need clear
i ‘and intense thinking and planning on the part of those with
~ intellectual oportunity, for the job is too big for the ignorant
: ‘gs the supercilious.
this may seem to have little to do with the place of
_ “intellectuals” in our society. It may, however, suggest that
ffensive war against the new ideology of race solidarity and
_ international war can be fought with intellectual tools. Gerwi} y is not only a. country of soldiers. It is filled with theories
Ea speculations, diverging in some respects, but all agreeing
on the worthlessness of all final moral codes, on the degeneracy
i of those who appeal either to conscience or to reason, on the
_ glory of the fellowship of oppressors, and on the ultimate disunity of all men. The “intellectuals” of Germany are false
. in ectuals. They reason, but the conclusion of all their
ereomns is the irrationality of everything, the glory of be| ing a absurd, the ultimate meaningfulness of meaningless
crifice. ‘National Socialism claims, to be above all other
doctrines a matter of faith. It succeeds so well that it makes
the most mystical Christian appear a second Voltaire. The
, aatgye against ordered reason strikes at western thought
of . Shade. Christians, Catholic or Protestant, believe
eli; o be in some sense true and would, if sincere,
he payed os satisfied that it is false. Scientists
nh
if they

fa:

} Nf

  
   
  
 
 
    
  
  
 
   
  
  
 
 
   
  
 
 
      

 

   

, a ita) oa
i Bi [ a =
cat

FE gt
as
ee

A
E

Ea DALHOMARE: GAZETTE

Piet ion

»

 

 

The Trumbles

Henry Thrumble was deep in
thought as he walked along the
road towards home, He was wondering how he could convince Emma,
his wife, that it would be cheaper
to buy a new piece of machinery
for the mill than to pay wages
while the old one was fixed again.
He had spent his married life faithfully managing Emma’s property,
and fighting her miserly tendencies.

Momentarily diverted by stumbling over a stone Henry looked
around him in repugnance. The
snow which still filled the ditches
and lay in heaps in the fields was
stained red with clay and streaked
with soot. The Canadian spring
had arrived and the ground was
muddy and rutted.

His home aroused a feeling of
horror. It was a high square house
painted a bright pea green with a
pitched roof of red asphalt shingles!
Emma had bought the paint at a
fire sale. She had inherited the
house from her grandfather who
needed many rooms to accommodate
his ten children. She had turned
the house into flats, a change Henry
felt was indecent—in Terford everyone lived in large family houses or
small new bungalows.

The lawn in front was still an

ugly brown. Irregular heaps of
dead spruce brush marked the rose
hedge, and flower beds. The bare
trees were unlovely against the
grey sky.

Wearily Henry turned into the
side yard. Emma was one of those
who believed that the front door
should only be opened for the
minister, a funeral, or the Ladies
Auxillary! In disgust he looked at
the wood and chips scattered all
over the backyard and at the ladder
leaning against the house, and at
the heaps of rusty tin cans emerging from drifts. Some people never
learnt that the snow did melt eventually! He stumbled up the dark
backstairs knowing that if he
searched them carefully with a
flashlight he would not find a speck
of dust.

* * BS

Henry watched Emma from a
eretonne covered chair in the living
room while she cleared the supper
dishes off the oilcloth covered table.
She was as tall as Henry, but she
was so fat that her height made no
impression. Her greying hair was
pulled back severely from her face,
and it emphasized her nose too
much, At supper they had discussed the machinery. Emma as usual
was taking her time about answering yes or no. Joe was leaving the
lumber mill to join the airforce.
Henry wanted to give him a nice
present—say fifty dollars—but he
knew Emma would consider five
overgenerous. His own salary was
small—most of it went to pay the
bills at the store and the taxes.

Emma hung up the dish cloth
carefully. “Why didn’t you get that
new machine before the old one
broke? If you was any good you
must’ve noticed it was ‘wore out. I
suppose the mill will be broke down
for a week while you get the new
one.” Henry greeted this patiently.
Emma had forgotten that he had
tried to make her get one last
January.

She received his attempts at conversation with a grunt. Henry had
suggested at supper that they go
to the concert at the Hall, and had
been refused. He sat in desperation listening to the click-click of
the knitting needles.

to let him smoke in the house even
though he had promised not to spill
any ashes. At last with a muttered
apology he left the house, changing
his felt slippers for boots.

At the canteen Henry smoked his
pipe and drank a glass of beer.
Everyone was talking about Joe,
and thinking about a party for him.
He felt that he as Joe’s boss should
do something worthwhile. By nine
o’clock he left. After a few steps
Henry was overtaken by Alf. Alf
was a pleasant dark young man of
average height who had no regular
job or private income. He was not
lazy—he just found other things
were more pleasant than work. He
did various odd jobs and hunted and
gambled and drank a little. There
were those who hinted that he was
not above stealing.

“T suppose you'll be giving Joe a
great send-off,” said Alf. “I’d like
to” confided Henry gloomily. “but I
don’t see how I can. I haven’t got
the money.” “Your old woman’s
got lots of it thought. I’d help myself to a little of it.”

That was true. Emma always
had several hundred dollars hidden
in the house. “I wouldn’t take any
of it without her knowing. She
watches it pretty close. And we
live upstairs—no burglar could get
in the windows.” Alf grinned. “A
smart man could get in the skylight
if it was left unlocked.” Henry
was shocked — then interested. If
Alf took half he would have enough
left for a fifty dollar present for
Joe and a farewell party besides.
“T’ll do it,” he thought, “I’ve earned
part of her money.” Soon he and
Alf were deep in plans. Henry did
not get home until ten o’clock—an
unheard of hour!

On Saturday evening Henry had
to go to the Supper held by the
Ladies’ Auxillary at the Hall. Emma was on the committee so he had
to help. The supper was the
standard — scalloped potatoes, cold
ham, baked beans, and pie. He was
wedged in between two women who
talked over him, and during lulls
he had to converse with the village
gossip, whom he detested.

Much later that same night Alf
slipped quietly up a ladder to the
back verandah of the Thrumble
house. Cautiously he erawled up
the roof until he reached the skylight. He fumbled a bit—ah! it was
opened. Carefully he lowered himself through the skylight. With the

_ aid of a flashlight he picked his way

trough the numerous articles spread
haphazardly in the attic. He reached the narrow stairway. Henry had
warned him that the steps were
very, very narrow. He _ turned
around so he could descend and grip
the steps above him with his hands.
He went down a few steps. His
left foot knocked something over
and his right foot landed on something soft, and slipped. His hands
clawed the steps futilely. With a
scream he toppled down through the
dark. His flailing arms knocked
articles off the stairs which hit him
as he fell in a crumpled heap on the
floor.

The noise woke both Henry and
Emma with a jerk. “What was that
noise, Henry, do you suppose it’s
burglars?” Another crash reechoed through the house. Henry
fumbled in a drawer for his gun.
Emma grabbed a hairbrush from the
dresser and followed him. Another
crash came from the attic stairway.

Emma refused; Henry opened the door carefully.

 

cast doubt upon their theories.

Communists claim a rational

basis for their assertion that the proletariat must cast off their
wage slavery. The new philosophy of Germany lays no claim
to truth. It only claims vitality, a driving foree which knows

no distinetions of true or false.

It insists that there is no

objective truth but only racial truth, that that is true which
is suited to the genius of a race—which, in short, will be

politically expedient.

In the past intellectuals have been condemned as dilettantes, interested more in academic arguments around the
fireside than in political action (although the criticism has

usually been made when they engaged in political action).
some cases the charge has been only too true.

In
But of even

less use have been our muddle-headed anti-intellectuals, who
have been so ready to stampede at any sign of social change

“look they have kept Canada a backward country. We must.

look to our intellectuals for leadership, and it may be that the

jectivity of their researches, and challenge of war will force them to look up from their teacups
hols back information which might and play their proper role in remoulding the world. i

 

    

The crumpled shape of a man lay

at the foot of the stairs. Surrounding and scattered over him were
catalogues, tins of paint, broken
bottles with pickles and jam oozing
out, cookie tins, and mops and
dusters. Henry was thunderstruck.
They laid the man on the hall floor.
“It’s Alf’ said Emma im an awed
tone. “Well, I never!”

Alf groaned and opened his eyes.
He moved gingerly, and assured

“The purest form
in which tobacco
can be smoked.”

January 16, 1942

them he was not hurt, all the while
staring at Emma in her long pink
striped nightgown and barrage of
metal hair curlers, clutching a brush
in one hand and a mirror in the
other. Emma padded off to phone
the police. “Why in H didn’t
you move that stuff,” growled Alf.
“J did,” said Henry helplessly. “I
did; I took it all down and hid it,
but she must have put it back before she went to bed!”

 

waa)
CAPORAL

FARMERS’
CHOCOLATE MILK

Is Stimulating .

.. It Peps You Up!

“TASTE THE DIFFERENCE”

IT’S NOT OUR
BUSINESS

How you spend your
Christmas money is,
strictly speaking, not
our business.

We'd like to suggest,
though, that a gift
from Birks for yourself
is a pleasant way to
use it.

Henry Birks & Sons
LIMITED

Registered Jewellers,
American Gem Society

Barrington St. - Halifax, N.S.

 

 

WELCOME

TO
DALHOUSIE

CO

BLAKELEY’S

43 Spring Garden Road

Dalhousie Cniversity

Halifax, Nova Scotia

Maintains a High Standard of Scholarship.
Includes all the principal Faculties of a University.
Largest Staff, Libraries, Laboratories in Eastern Canada.

Arts and Science Faculty

Degrees: B.A., B.Sc., B.Com., B. Mus.,

Phm. B.

Diplomas: Music, Engineering, Pharmacy, Education.

Four Year Advanced Courses ir. Classics, Mathematics,
Modern Languages and History.

Graduate Courses * recognized standing,

of M.A.,,

leading to degrees

bial ics scie' to Professional Faculties.
Course in Public Administration.

Many valuable scholarships, on entrance and through

the courses.

The Professional Faculties

in
Law, Medicine, Dentistry, enjoy an unexcelled reputation.

Inclusive Fees: in the B.A. course, average about $160 a
in the B.Sc. course, about $190 a year.

year.

Residence

Shirreff Hall, residence for women.
Carefully supervised residential faculties for men.

 
 

J; ity it would be remiss of us to omit some consideration of

ae op ry 1. Here is a really Practical Course for all who aspire to

i he Complete College Education, and one which should be given a great
de pe isons consideration in choosing future courses.

gh Bou, unlike the others, do not change in the middle of the
‘ but eee alternate mii dp the whole session. Thus, one <i by

a re 8 roa and that you will have to start all over again. Thus you
a | have to learn the basis of Condusive Thinking or Reasoning, and
' ir ctive Reasoning or Thinking. These are all taught by means of

1e Mints of Logic. Of these, the first is the most truly remarkable,
eastoat nas: Celebrant Darius, an ron Bocacchio,

i sible to ichise! eerie to a series of ABC’s, and yourself to an

-~ Mica Idiot within a very short space of time. “If you sueceed in
m Me esr, the intricacies of this, however, without disaster, you will find
. y a feaproehly Practical in many future endeavours.

| The second branch of Philosophy in Psychology, which is an Ina "valuable course in Animal Training, and for this reason, is highly recom“ _mended to all interested in this field. Basically, this course studies the
as effects of taking a Rat, and putting it in a daze by revolving a cage on
. a ‘Phonograph turntable. The Psychologist then measures the number of
aM times it hiccups and draws a graph; whichshow you a number of valuable
i ‘things about Rats, and Psychology. ‘These experiments are repeated
until the Rat shows no further resistance, and then a new Rat is taken.

Te Another form of Pet Training indulged in by Psychologists is to
a e a Cat, and slowly starve it to death in a locked Box; to see how

Jong it will take, before the Cat eats its way out of the Box.. By this
ene the Human Ego is inflated, for it is cere found that a Human

   

  
  

- hi ‘and why we think, with a Callous Disregard for the way we go about
as doing it. In this way, considerable Anatomy is introduced into our study
a of things, and you learn that the body is a mass of Extra-Preceptors,
In -deceptors, Ultra-inceptors, and other things which cause us to
«ae due to the fact that they are all more or less connected to the

- Brain. The Ultimate Conclusion of all Psychologists is that we have a

.. Brain, which, according to some, is governed by the Stommac, or vice
| i) versa, according to others. All of which is very consoling to everyone.

   

Vd } Thus, no one who wishes to become a Complete Philosopher can afford
to ignore’ Philosophy 1., which is calculated to add Immeasurably to the
- formation of the Complete College Man, in every way.

|

t }

. Ry, 4
I 7
be dine

r yy )

r v
%, Ry ss
- it ‘i

» Rufus Rayne From Rangoon «

 

i EPISODE 10 friend, Col. J. Egglespie Oatcake.
i “Certainly I know of the dastardly
plot,” he exclaimed with true British
courage, “I thought it up myself”,
to the tall, rattish-appearing creature beside him. The creature, who
was cleverly disguised, could be
seen by a skilful observer to have
a remarkable resemblance behind
the ears of Reb McLeak, the demon

reporter.

t
I Rementber Pearl Harbour or the

“Maine” or the Red River Valley
(Mae CUE (spelled C-U-E).

- King Karl’s disappearance re
_ mained an unsolved and apparently

ih unsolvable mystery. Operations
upon the library front were proceed
) “ing st a. normal pace. Merry MacWe "Deacon had descended from the
a i ‘reading room, where she had been
\, marooned, upon a bridge formed by
4 the perpetual dawg. Blurbie StewR ‘pot was on ae for pict wages,

   
  
  
     
 
 
    
  

    

= uae

   

 

     
   
     
   
 
 
   
   
  
 
 
 
    
         
     
   
 
   
 
  
    
     

‘ carey sthcctiedh adie nace! ‘ak
ce fae ys “BOILING ESSENCE” was
placed to windward of him,

  

it

(4 -s other ora of the world, how
 

The creature, who shall for our
‘purposes be anonymous, took out a
| small notebook. “Could you”, said
he, “give me a round by round discussion of the kidnapping.” Oatcake
was just about to answer, when
suddenly a deafening shot rang out
from the nearby trees, while the
tom-tomers took up their distant
dirge in Greek, chanting the funeral
‘songs of Euripides, discoursing
upon economics, and mentioning
in fond tones the name of Miss
Heavenly (or Henny).

‘to ‘ of drums, being beaten by
rriors plastered with paints
3 oi ve plastered.
Ma | Fortunately the shot missed, and
Oatcake went on with his tale.
What can it have to do with us?

Is Oateake in- league with the
pearl PROV OK? if he isn’t,

..

 

The danes season is with us again,
so we suppose that all good engineers will be at the dance. W
know that Mussett is not shy, but
why didn’t he have “une femme” by
Tuesday and why did he offer so

;| generously (?) to relieve Wiswell

of his date?

We are glad to see Eisenhaur and
*| MacKay back. Could certain members of the weaker sex have kept
them hangin’ around the back
hahba - - ?

Would you believe it, but Charlie
Fowler tells us that he will have a
real blonde in tow Friday night.

Who would rush through the snow
storm after a girl named Kay—
maybe Waterfield? Gee! You can’t
tell about those quiet fellows.

Fred Russell tells us that Newfoundland isn’t so barren and lonely
after all; but what can you mean
by that look in your eye, Fred?

Does anybody know what really
happened to Russ Webber? Falling
downstairs sounds like a variation
on walking into a door.

Gordie Wilson looks like a new
“white hope”. He tells us that he
took on twelve (could be two) sailors at a local hotel. Gord came out
with “flying” colors. Bob Wilcox
fave encouraging advice from the
ringside.

We hear that Glen Hubley was
caught “with his pants down’ last
Saturday morning. You ought to
“snow” better, Glen.

Watch for the War Department
communique regarding action at the
Shuffle. Yea, man!

The Popularity of the Quiz system
in determining factors of personality, love, etc. have led us to create
a new type of Quiz — viz: The
“Should you have come to College,
and why” Quiz. If you succeed in
answering more than three of ‘the
following questions in the Affirmative, you are definitely the type who
will be successful in a University.
If you answer more é¢han three,
you’re wasting your time. If less
than three, do not be discouraged,
but turn your talents to the Ministry, or some less strenuous diversion.

1. Have you ever felt like a Permorphus Polyvert?

last nite i
saw a witch
which had a
twich
today there is
a hitch as
to which wich
x 2K me
Dopey—Will the anesthetic settee |
me sick ?
Doctor—wNo, I think not.
Dopey—How long will it be ot
fore I know anything?
Doctor—Aren’t you expecting too
much of an anesthetic?
BS * *

Barker: Do you like the outdoor

type?

Strickland: No, I prefer plumb- |

ing. a ‘

 

_History Prof: “How.can you ex
 

plain the great increase in popu-.

lation which occured after the industrial revolution?”
History Shark:
to town.”
—Queen’s Journal

 

He: “Where’s my wife?”

Conductor: She’s round behind.

He: I know, but where is she?

2. Don’t you understand the
King’s English?

3. Are you under any Illusion re- |
garding Poggendorf.

4. Have you your I.Q. with you?

5. Do you consider the Weltgeist
the antepenultimate of Dostoevski’s Philosophy ?

6. Have you the strength to
strike bravely against a Sea
of Soup?

7. Have you read anything by
Ibid?

8. Have you read anything?

9. Have you ever felt the weight

" of the famous statement
‘Alles ist vom Schnee bedecdt.’

10. Are you suffering from a feel
ing of Inferiority?

 

 

 

On this occasion it seems fitting |

to reprint a poem which occurred in
this column last year, which seems
to have been taken literally:

Fables From the Itch.
And here’s a toast to Shirreff Hall—
Wher you’re dating one, you date
them all.
For if at first you don’t succeed,
To try again is rash indeed.
The wagging tongues that here reside,
Have wounded many’s the manly
pride.
So, Freshmen, hearken to this ditty,
And find your dates around the city.

*x* * ok

We should like to apologize to
Betty Bird for last week’s item. We
had her confused with someone else,
though we understand that the error
was solely due to the lateness of

the trains.

* *

Who goes around breaking Watch
Straps, and won’t replace them?
Maybe Kirk ean answer that one.

*

These Budding, Ministers must
have their fling. We understand

Stal

“Boomer” Rowe had a rather har-
rowing experience over the holidays
—or was it, “Boomer!”

* *

The play’s the thing. Why was
“Bob” White so interested in
“Dooley” attachments: Better
stick to the freshmén, “Bob’’.

*

*

* *

It’s time Inez knew that dogs!

are not allowed on Halifax street
cars.

* *

Congratulations to Sergt. Lomkhart (?) on giving birth to a bouncing 5% oz. appendix.

* * *

Speaking of ghosts, it seemed
vaguely like old times to see Kay
Robinson occupying a gym-store
seat in the company of Phil Walker.
We must be getting old.

*

Though it’s quite a while after
New Year’s, Quigley is still pretty groggy; or else why would he
walk home from classes, leaving
his car parked at the college?

ed * *

“Measles” doesn’t mind the cold,
and demonstrated one use for an
O.T.C. cap. The spectacle of the
flaps down was one long to be remembered.

+ * *

Grime Smirches On!

 

Girls who dress in low V necks.
Leave no doubt as to their

secks.

    
     
 

A delicious and refreshing drink .
taste that everybody likes. That's ice-cold “Coca-Cola.” It’sone
of the pleasant things of life...

cae COCA-COLA COMPANY OF CANADA, LIMITED

Grrick

HA Famous Players Theaiv
Saturday - Monday - Tuesday

 

“BLUES IN THE NIGHT”
with Priscilla Lane

“HARVARD HERE I COME”

Tues. - Wed. - Thurs.
“POISON PEN”
with Florence Robson

"WEEKEND FOR THREE”
with Dennis O’Keefe

Famous Players Theatre
Friday - Saturday - Monday

Errol Flynn and
Olivia deHaviland in

“They Died With Their
Boots On”

*

Tues. - Wed. - Thurs. - Friday
Clark Gable and Lana Turner
be oe

“HONKY TONK”

 

|

“Everybody went

\

 

   

 

\
\

LIMITED

O

DRUGGISTS

Headquarters for Students
Requirements

0

HALIFAX - SHEET HARBOUR
KENTVILLE, N. S.

 
     

ASK FOR

DONOVAN’S
BEVERAGES
at DAL CANTEEN

46 Granville St. Halifax, N. S.

Faders Drug Stores

135 HOLLIS STREET
29 COBURG ROAD

   

HALIFAX Nova Scotia

 

OXFORD

Friday and Saturday

HERE COMES MR. JORDAN
“NIGHT OF JAN. 16”

Monday and Tuesday

“NEW YORK TOWN”
“TARGETS FOR TONIGHT”

Wednesday and Thursday
“WHEN LADIES MEET”
“SMILING GHOST”

ORPHEUS

Monday - Tuesday - Wed.

“SEALED LIPS”
“TUXEDO FUNCTION”

Thurs. - Friday - Saturday
“THE CARTER CASE”

The New

CASINO

Starting Monday, Jan. 12

* Hellsapoppin ”
Starring

Olsen and Johnson

“842 Laughs for Every

Customer”

A \
1.

d

AN

ing

NW "

. . with life, sparkle and

pure, wholesome refreshment.

HALIFAX

 

 

\

 

Pause -.
Go refreshed

278 ee

~ elas wdiclgein.
   
 
  
  

a

(

 
   

hy their Intermediate game against
the Dalhousie Cubs last Saturday
‘night, and won the game by a 4328 margin, but they certainly didn’t
- look good in doing it. The Dal
Cubs dressed seven men for the

_ game and made an excellent show
ing despite their lack of familiarity
- with the “Y” floor, and also despite

_ the fact that they had little prac
ites playing as a unit.

The Y.M.C.A. have sufficient ex"perience and ability to make a good
senior team. But it seems that they
prefer to be the cream of the inter_ mediate crop, rather than just an~ other good team in senior company.
- But unless they show themselves to

better advantage than they did on

 

 

© Saterday night, they will have no
justification for mutual back-slapping.

With thirteen men to draw from,

_ the “Y” team could afford to rough
en the game up and take their
chances on having some men re“moved for personal fouls, while
accomplishing their object of
“softening up” the Tiger quintet.
Playing with wild abandon, and with
never a thought for the rule book,

_ they committed twenty-five personal

fouls on the Dal team. This might
have been the Tiger salvation if the
black and gold team had been “on”
in their shooting, but unfortunately

_ the Ralston team missed eighteen
free throws, enough to have won the

game handily. However, the ‘“Y”,

+ too, were off on their shooting, for

they missed twenty-two free throws,

_ enough to have swamped the Cubs

_ by a wide margin.

_ The game opened at a fast clip,
with both teams missing shots from
close in, but with the “Y” team

Sh registered scores by McRitchie and

Klinie on rebounds to shortly take

the lead. Forsythe and Hicks of

the Cubs made neat scores on fast

_ breaks to keep the Dal team within
striking distance, but the collegians

were finding it difficult to penetrate
the rough, tough “Y” defence of
Doubleday and Mitchell. At the end
of the first half, therefore, the “Y”
held-a 20-13 lead.

In the second half the Y.M.C.A.
took the lead they already held, and
by weight of numbers added to it.

ae Throwing in fresh men as quickly

 
 
 
 

i
; oer

 

 

      
     
  
    
   
    
    
 
   
     
    
   

h - .
ie ke

7415.4

peek

a | '

a Che

a | as the others tired, they soon ran

‘away from the weary Cubs, who by

is time were playing with only
five men to draw from. In spite of
ae scoring splurge by Forsythe, who
tallied seven points in this half, the
“Y” kept well in the lead. Zatsman
and Doig picked up eight points between them in this session, but it

Was insufficient to greatly whittle

down the “Y” lead.

At game’s end, therefore, the
Y.M.C.A. intermediates held a 43-28
advantage, and had won the first
game of the 1942 intermediate
schedule. How they would fare in
the rest of their games remained to
be seen, but observers felt that when

it came to using thirteen men in one
- contest, that there ought to be some

kind of a law.
_ Among those who turned out to
see the game, which was played at
“Y”", ‘were: Barbara White,
Anita Reid, John McLellan, Clarence
Frazer, Mike Smith.

Dal Cubs: Zatsman, 4; Charman,

2; Forsythe, 11; ae 2; Doig, 6;

Smith, 2; Fraser, i \

Y.M.C. A.: Stone; Blackadar, 4;
Doran; Bream, 5; Callaghan, 6; Colwell, 2; Wollenhaupt; Evans, 3;
Johnson, 3; Doubleday, 2; McRitchie

8; Mitchell, 3; Klinic, 6

 

Senior Basketball
This week the Dal Tiger roamed
the deserted corners and angles of
the Gym long enough to avenge her
Cubs, recent victims of a rough

e evening at the local Y. This time,

_ however, the Tigers cracked the
_ whip, to a consoling, if not too. con_vineing, 82-25 win.

Scoring their second successive
victory ‘of the current season on
aPicedny , Dal’s Senior cag
rs ets, inane in their new uni
| showed bursts of. offensive
_ The small, but. en
; eres rooters

:

Tiger ‘Avenge C
ole Ps bs Y's Men’s Skill

Unbeaten§Still (i

 

gave added inspiration to the Collegians, who responded nobly.

The Y team, intermediate titleholders, provided plenty of opposition, despite the fact that several of
their regulars were missing from
the starting lineup. Led by Norm
MacRitchie, one of Dal’s “old boys”
who had a field day at the expense
of his former mates, The Y stalwarts never stopped trying until the
final whistle.

The game opened at a fast clip,

and continued. so throughout most

of the first half. Fast breaks by
the forwards, combined with sound
defensive work by Smith and Wilson on the back-line, gave Dal an
early lead they never relinquished.
Coach Bernie Ralston at one stage

of the game experimented with two
complete teams, and was gratified

to see his reser¥e string account for
twelve points, working as a unit.

Early in the second period the Y
team staged a nice rally, but timely
scores by Wilson and Forsythe for
Dal’s cause rendered their efforts
impotent. From this point onward
play slowed somewhat, and Dal
used its slow break with telling
effect.

Smith and Wilson were somewhat
below par during the contest, as
they suffer from seasonal colds,
which cut down their efficiency to a
certain extent.

A survey of the scoring summary
revea'ed no outstanding star in the
Dal firmament, but the even distribution of the pay-off shots indicates
a balanced scoring power and sound
team play, which should pay heavy
dividends in games to come.

The contest was merely an exhibition tilt, and had no bearing on
the Dalhousie chances in the forthcoming Halifax City League grind.
The game was valuable, however,
as a “conditioner” for the Tiger
squad. Further, as the Y team has
on its roster some of the best of
the city basketeers, the Dalhousie
win indicated that the collegians
will be able to stand up against the
best in the local business. Especially gratifying is the work to date
of the so-called “reserves”, upon the
strength of whom to a great extent
depends the success or failure of
any club. MacDonald and Hicks, for
instance, are playing their first season on the Dal floor, but are already
showing commendable form. Dunbrack is working well on the forward with the regulars, as is Doig,
who combines the duties of manager
with his playing.

Dalhousie: MacKenzie, 4; Doig, 2;
Dunbrack; Forsythe, 6; MacLeod, 5;
Hicks, 2; Smith, 6; MacDonald; Wil
‘son, 5; Fraser, 2.

 

-CO-EDS ONLY

By Marjorie Parkes

* Basketball has taken hold at Dal
this year. With the opening of the
Gym after the Christmas holidays
action started. Basketball loomed
up.

Tackling each other in the first
game of the season last Saturday
noon, were two of our Activities
Clubs, the Blacks and Reds.. They
swung into action with fast-working
combination on the part of the
Blacks, and such shining players as
Kay Smith and Vera Crummy upholding the well-supported “Red”
team, The game ended with victory
of the Blacks over the Reds 33-26,
determining the opponent for the
game against the Gold team.

2K * 2

With renewed vigor, the Reds and
Golds faced each other on Tuesday
evening. The Reds were determined
to show what they really are made
of, and the Golds were just as determined to shine through in their
first game. Nor were the latter unjustified in their determination! By

| the second quarter, having enough

time to warm up, and we mean
warm up from the zero weather outside, no less than twelve points were
scored, Xenia Reid, the outstanding
scorer, making the score 12-3.
During the remaining periods, un
necessary to the Golds, for a lot can.

happen in the remaining periods, the

ub Defeat

= 2 P ee tse 7 oe ee Ture Coe a
er = re é Ay ae Oe) : fil ary. +s

‘aa ey
ia bu

    
   

a ne

a} ae My

 
 

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

 

SPORT Spice

by AL. MacLEOD

   

From Shakespeare’s book ’tis plain to see
That “shame doth speak for instant remedy.”
Good sholars say, if now there be

» A trace, perhaps, of infamy
Within our sphere scholastic—
Seek out the cause and raise a plea
For reconstruction drastic.

.

Isn’t it a shame the way some people treat the Students’
Council? One can be chatting amiably with a mild-mannéred
chap, and in the course of conversation unthinkingly mention
the topic of undergraduate government, and what happens?
There is a momentary pause, until he is suddenly seized with
a paroxysm of rage, a convulsion of vexation, a fit of wrathful
indignation. His lip curls in a ferocious snarl, there is a
violent gnashing of teeth, and his look is black as thunder. The
air is filled with epithets, maledictions and imprecations, from
all of which one gathers a general uncharitable intent.

But what word was this to bring a hornet’s nest about
one’s ears?

“Students’ Council’, the Chosen Few, the Leaders of the
People, the Vox Populi, the Office-Bearers, the High-Ones,
Those Set in Authority, the Untouchably Mighty. Surely these
are not the tags which we, the humble Stupid Body, apply to
those whom we have set in high places by the exercise of our
democratic rights? Surely the average undergraduate would
never be so unkind as to suggest that his representatives are
unqualified, nor would he maintain that he now regrets his
earlier choice? Of course not. The Average Student realizes
full well that to hold a spot on the Council is not to be greatly
envied. He knows that there is little thanks for good work,
and a great deal of abuse for poor work. But at the same time
he knows, that having paid his Student Council fees, he wants
to get his money’s worth, even if he has to settle for the small
satisfaction of hanging a verbal beating on the Fifteen.

Perhaps the Dalhousie student would feel kindlier toward
the Council if he knew just what the Council was doing. It’s
a small satisfaction to a person to be told that he needn’t worry
about student activity, because the Council is a capable body
who will see that everything is worked out to everybody’s
satisfaction. What the individual wants to know is just what
is going on, and to be able to express an opinion about it.

Take the under-the-surface struggle that is apparently
being waged between the Council and the D.A.A.C., for instance. At the beginning of the year, the Council made a
grant to the committee which controls Dalhousie athletic expenditures. The D.A.A.C. was free to budget this amount,
(which ran into several thousand dollars) in the best interests
of Dalhousie sport. A large portion of this amount was spent
to promote rugby last fall, and under the heading of “rugby”
expenditures came repairs to the football field and the bleachers.. Out of this amount, too, come equipment and uniforms,
meals, and travelling expenses. The D.A.A.C. had to guarantee
a certain sum to St. F. X. before that final championship game
could be played. It wasn’t so bad when the Council stepped in
and took the gate receipts for that game, but the hard blow
came when the D.A.A.C. received a bill for amusement tax, for
that game, which the Council would not pay. Imagine! The
Council takes the gravy, and makes the D.A.A.C. pay for the
flour and water!

This is merly one example of the equitable (?) manner in
which undergraduate financial operations are carried on. There
are probably a great many more, but, peculiarly enough, nobody ever hears anything about them.

The result of this financial wizardry by the Fifteen is that
the D.A.A.C. must revise its budget, and cut down on the programmes it had mapped out for hockey, basketball, and certain
minor sports. And meanwhile, the people who paid to play with
others, must play alone—and like it. If things keep going as
they have of late, the boys and girls will probably play alone,
but they certainly won’t like it.

Let nobody think that this is an indiscriminate effort to
slap somebody down. It isn’t. This little column appreciates
the work that the Council is doing on the Red Cross Ball, and
the other charitable efforts in which it has, and in which it will,
engage. But we should like to remind the people who are high
in undergraduate affairs, that charity begins at home, and
while Dalhousie students may be lacking in so-called “college
spirit”, they at least deserve to be told what the Council is
doing, and how problems affecting every student are being
handled. Such things do not fall under the war-time censorship. And further, next fall is almost too late for this year’s
students to hear how this year’s money was handled.

But if, nobody’s interested, just forget that we ever
brought the subject up:

 

score rounded out, to an 18-b victory

for—the Golds.
*

on the named team last year, Anita
Rosenblum, Kay Smith and Inez
Smith, with the addition of several
new players, we have a wide choice
for a good team this year.

Our new material is seen among
such players as Anita Reid, Vera
Crummy, Helen Henshaw, Jean MacLellan, Xenia Reid, Laura Bisset,
Doshie Stairs, Marg Morrison, Jean
Stewart. Among these and the unnamed at the moment, surely we can

build up a “team to be remembered”,
K * a

* *

Will the Golds carry on undaunted? Will the Blacks beat the other
two? Will the Reds burst forth in
a new glory? What will happen?

There is a game between the
Golds and Blacks on Saturday, from
12-1 o’clock, so turn out and cheer
your players.

Bo * aK

Glancing over Intercollegiate
basketball and basketball players,
we note with keen observance, that
it was way back in the year ’39-'40,
that we saw the last and the best of
good and enthusiastic basketball.
That was a shining year, with

Once again, as in ’89-’40, we see
plans for an Intercollegiate Women’s Basketball League. Dal and
Acadia are to play off with the first
game on February 20 at Dalhousie.

/

campus,

prospects for the future, we thought.
But last year fell low.

However, with such members of
that team still to be seen about the
Mary MacKeigan, Mary
Johnson, and Kay Hicks, and those

Meanwhile U.N.B. and Mount A. are
to play off. The winners of both
provinces will then come face to
face in the final struggle for the
championship.

With such plans being carried out

‘ a 1 awe i
- i a ng ee at aa 1 e y
ries “y)\ aes i Ale ee ee Wipe eee ee
Py A ees ey, i 4 ru | -*

Basketballers Active

a is

 

 

January 16, 1942

 

by Chris Arklie, manager, and Phyl
Barratt, an interesting season is to
be viewed at Dalhousie.
* * *
At 4.30 on Wednesdays there is
tryout practice for the University
Basketball team. Anyone who is in
terested is urged to turn out during
the next few weeks.
* * &

Next Tuesday evening is to be
“The Night” in the gym for the
girls, to officially start the Activities
Club on their merry ways.

FOLLOW THE REST OF
THE BOYS
FOR YOUR FOOTWEAR
TO

Eat at...

EVANGELINE
TEA ROOM

564%, SPRING GARDEN ROAD
B-9571

SHANE’S SHOE STORE
Special Discount to Students
397 BARRINGTON ST. B9144

 

 
   
  
 
   
 

You're missing a lot if you
haven't tried Philip Morris
Mixture, today's greatest
value in pipe tobacco.

In pouches, pack-~
ages and ’2 Ib. tins.

 

ROSEDALE NURSERIES
Y.M.C.A. Building — B-7530
381 Barrington Street
31 Spring Garden Rd. — B-6440
We Specialize in CORSAGES
and All Kinds of Design Work

The NATIONAL FISH CO.
LIMITED

FRESH FISH SPECIALISTS

HALIFAX

NOVA SCOTIA

 

STUDENTS!

MAKE GORDON B. ISNOR’S
YOUR HEADQUARTERS FOR

OVERCOATS
FURNISHINGS

SUITS SHOES

—and save on every purchase by taking
advantage of our Special Students’
Discount at...

GORDON B. ISNOR’S

69 Gottingen Street -— Halifax, N. S.

 

Compliments of

S. Cunard and Co., Limited

HEAT MERCHANTS SINCE 1835
Hard Coal, Soft Coal, Coke, Fuel Oil
*

Dartmouth, N. S.

Halifax, N. S.

 

 
