a

—

 

Above are shown those responsible for your 1941-’42
Gazette (phone numbers on request!) At left, Editor John
Grant; News Editor, “Yank” Forsyth; Feature Editor,

 

Dalhousii

 

VOL. LXXIV

 

BENGALS

 

“Mentor” Tasman, and Sports Editor, “Moose” MacLeod,
labor over weighty campus problems. In centre, Tasman,
Forsyth and Grant gain pointers on linotyping. At right,

  
      
 

“THE COLLEGE BY THE SEA”

HALIFAX, N. S., FEBRUARY 27,

1942

azeett

Tasman, MacLeod, Forsyth and Grant watch paper being
made up in forms preparatory to going to the press.

 

 

Lk No. 18

 

. DOWN NAVY IN

 

 

PLAYOFF OPENER

 

 

Student Elections To Be Held Next Tuesday

Drive For Funds To

Aid Mount A. Begun
GAUDET CHAIRMAN

During December of last year,
castrophe struck hard at (our sister
university), Mount Allison, at Sackville, N. B., when fire completely
gutted and destroyed their fine
Men’s Residence together with all
its furnishings.

Clad only in pyjamas, students
made a hasty exit leaving behind
all their clothing, books, and other
personal belongings, to be destroyed
by the ravishing flames. This loss
to the students has now been valued
at approximately $25,000.

The loss of their residence to
Mt. A., particularly at this time is
a sad one indeed. It is out of our
power perhaps to assist in alleviating this loss. But we can do something to render aid to the many
students of moderate means who
suffered the loss of many hundreds
of dollars worth of belongings in
such fire.

The call has rung out for such
aid already, and it is gratifying to
know that our Students’ Corncil has

not let such a call go unheeded. Your

Council has initiated and backed a
drive to be held on this Campus
March 2nd to March 7th for the purpose of raising a fund to be sent on
to the Mt. A. students to help make
up their loss.

Already many other Maritime
Universities have sent in their contributions. Now it’s our turn. Will
you make a contribution to your
class collector, designated below,
this week therefore, and let’s show
our Mt. A. friends across the border
who have played hosts to Dalhousians in Sports, Debating, etc., so
often and treated our boys and girls
so well, that we stand behind them
in their great loss.

The various class Susleetors are as
follows:

Medicine:

lst Year—Glen MacDonald

2nd Year—Adelaide Fleming

3rd Year—Lloyd MacLeod

4th Year—Mike Smith
Law:

1Ist Year—Lorraine Johnston

2nd Year—Dooley McIntosh

8rd Year—Walt Gaudet
Dentistry:

ist Year—Glen MacDonald

 

Endorses Drive. . .

 

Message from Dr. Stanley—

“T cordially approve of the plan
of the Dalhousie Students’ Council
to raise a fund for assisting the students of Mount Allison University.

We were 2!1 shocked and grieved
by the calamity which overtook Mt.
A. University.

I am happy to subscribe to the
fund fund myself.”

CARLETON STANLEY,
President.

@2nd Year |
8rd Year §

Commerce:
Norrie Douglas

Engineers:
Bob Wilcox

Arts & Science:
Freshmen—aAnita Reid

Barbara White 
Freshie-Sophs—Marion Wilden
Juniors—Eileen Mader
Seniors—Helen MacKay

—Les Walker

 

It is suggested that your Contribution, in order to render the most
assistance, be a direct contribution
in cash, rather than signing away
your caution deposit, which necessarily could not be collected till the
end of the term.

Give generously then this week to
the best of your ability and help
make Dalhousie’s contribution a real
one.

 

ELECTION CANDIDATES |CANDIDATES INTRODUCED AT

Council: Don Oland

President:
Bernie Graham
Henry Tonning
Vice-President:
Lorne MacDougall
Tom Patterson
Medicine:
Marty MacDonald
Charlie Gordon
George Gass

Law:
Johnny MacInness
Joe MacMillan
Engineering:
Blanchard Wiswell
Graham Bennett
Dentistry:
Jed Sutherland
Andy Anderson
Arts & Science:
Frosh:
Sue Morse
Bob Graves
Soph:
Muriel Barry
Laura MacKenzie

 

Jim Stevens
Junior Class:
Anita Rosenblum
Anne Mackley
Bob McCleave
Ralph O’Brien
Commerce:
Cy King
John Serymgeour
Glee Club:
President:
Bunny Levitz
Barbara Sieniewicz
Vice-President:
Doshie Stairs
Bob White
D. A. A. C.:
President
J. Scrymgeour
J. Charman
Vice-President:
Geoff Bagnall
Clarence Fraser
Blanchard Wiswell
Secretary:
Bruce Bauld
Mackie Campbell

 

 

 

. DIPO <

What Do You Think of the Co-ed Issue of the Gazette?

This question was probably a little unfair, especially as we followed} oyt fear of being mauled by fr enzied females.
| the non-partisan attitude of WODO and asked only males, with the| has departed from the campus for another year, but great is

exception of two girls. 90% thought little of it, the rest sang its praises.

Lynn Marcus....../ Alice Kalness

STUDENT FORUM: D. A. A. C.
ALLOTMENTS MAIN ISSUE

The candidates for the elections to
Glee Club be held on Tuesday, were introduced
3-Acter Tuesday

to the Student Body at a Student
Forum held on Thursday at noon in

s . is Theatre. A large

The Glee Club will present its the Chemistry Theatre » BS
thiec-act-nlayv. Ric Hearted ‘Hoe gathering heard the candidates for
eae eae President and Vice-President of the

bert”, in the Gymnasium this Stud ¢ 4. the Glee Club and
° c : ri€e i:

coming Tuesday, March 3rd, at sd am A a ae ¢ ‘i a sa ale

8.15 p.m. Doors will be closed at the V.A.A.C, state thelr ODjJeCtIOns

and intentions for the forthcoming
year. Stress laid on the fact
that finances will be the great source
of difficulty. The great issue in
what promises to be a hotly contested Council Presidential election is
that of the D. A. A. C, allotment
for next year. Bernie Graham in a
decidedly unorthodox speech praising his opponent, declared that if
the Student Body desired a man
who would support the present D.
A. A. A. appropriation of almost
50% of Council revenue, the man
for whom to vote was Henry Tonning.

curtain time. There is to be a
dance after the play with the Dal
Swing Band in attendance.

The cast includes:
Fred Forbes as Herbert Kalness
Kay Robinson ..... Eli Kalness
Tom Rogers .Robeert Kalness
BOD  WeDste!’ sac. viaves Junior
Sue Morse ......Martha (maid)
Alex MaclIntosh....Mr. Goodrich
““Doolie”’ MacIntosh

ye hn dara eee 9 Andrew Goodrich
Barbara White....Mrs. Goodrich
Doshie Stairs...../ Amy Laurence
Jim Stevens...... Jim Laurence

was

 

 

Sighs of relief echoed through the classrooms as Dal males
once again found it safe to tread the hallowed corridors withSadie Hawkins

the devastation that she has wrought. Nevertheless few were

However, the Co-eds may take consolation in the fact that when com-| the male of the species who could complain of the treatment

parisons were given, their number didn’t turn too badly.
as other Gazettes”, “Just as bad as the boys” and so on. Other opinions
“Tt was a good fight but the men won”, “very admirable”,
“Too much dirt”, “Just a copy of the boys whom they were trying to
imitate”, “Girls issue good because of the toast in the corner”, and “I
guess they showed us boys up”. One answer we especially would like
to emphasize: “Who’s the girl that wants to be stranded on the desert
island?” Tenders will be received during the coming week.
aK * * *

Do You Prefer Restaurant Waitresses to College Girls?

We reciprocate WODO’s sponging of our questions with this one.
70% were in favour of the former, 15% for the latter, and the rest didn’t
give preference to either. Here’s a few of the answers: “Waitresses are
more congenial”, “They have more charm”, “They have a—that is, they
are more shapely”, “Waitresses are less expensive; they are more intent
on having a good time without being socially correct”, though we would
like to add that the male said, ”But college girls are something to be
seen with sometimes, the same as a good suit.” Continuing the negatives,
“My mind is so changeable, for right at present I prefer Shirreff Hall
girls, but if they baffle (sea term: wind coming in one direction, which
suddenly changes) with my heart any more; I*dunno’’, and No! ‘When I
consider how my nights are spent’, I say waitresses, for they have oomph,
sex appeal, IT”. Another said, “Depends on the waitresses”, but one
male in the affirmative stood up strongly for the girls: “Yes, I prefer

the girls—don’t take westwant waitwesses in consideration” (they hadn’t
asked him to Sadie Hawkins).

 

“crummy”,|}at the height of the evening’s

“Stunk as much| accorded them at the Sadie Hawkins Dance on Tuesday night

last. Below is a group snapped by Staff Photographer Oland

entertainment.

Raa

 

 

 

 

 
 
 

  
 
 

 
 

    
 
  

 

69 — — “The Oldest ai Paper in America”
St in any column of THE GAZETTE are those of
‘0 ; be assumed. that they represent the opinion of

   
  
 

jurdy Printing: Co., Limited, 54 Argyle St,, Halifax

 

  

Gagerte ‘STAFF

- B-8576
S-2936
S-2597
B-8576
B-9746
B-5043
B-8576
B-6568
B-8576
B-0453
B-9311

— ~ =. ~ — = =

 
   
  
  
   

cCLEAVE BSTER MACDONALD |
LAND

hae 18

_ the first issue of the year we made some attempt to
v i at ae peaiye intended to do and to be. Now, after

  
 
 

me Panna to Dalhousie to justify a front-page spread?
pur ie mean enough to justify its existence? To an

 
 

n ate Guaptte does not einbn: to be a newspaper, does
en want to be one. Students rush to Roy’s Friday afterlooking for the Gazette and they would be very disap1 to find a newspaper instead. It is significant that in
get discussion has anyone even suggested dropping the
newspaper, even more significant that there is scarcely
pent college in the country which does not put out
rt of a publication. Moreover, the reader would be immuch more by the resemblances between the various
‘papers than by their differences. There is a distinctive
which marks them off from anything else under the
d colleges believe, that to lose that flavour would weaken
r traditions and their spirit.
. this , different quality of college papers is not something
ely r exotic, either. A Dal graduate remarked the other day
t 1e liked to read the Gazette for the independent viewpoint
yuld be depended upon to express. This was more than a
compliment, for he could have said the same about the
te in other years. The average newspaper is fairly well
lardized, standard in format, standard in content, standard
r ion. With some notable exceptions, newspapers are adto the same classes of people, have to think of the same
oat, and the same advertisers. The college paper cares
one of these things. Its opinions do not even necessarily
esent the opinion of the Student Body”. For that reason
re more apt to express student sentiments, for it is a
ism that any “highest common factor’ of opinions repre:s the opinion of practically no one.

 
   

   
  

  

*

  

  
 

  

 
 

  

  
  
  
   
  
   
 
  
  
     
      
    
  
 
 
    
     
 
  
   

__ Whatever the faults of this year’s Gazette, we think that
vould have been missed. We think that the news has been
y ably handled and the sports very ably manhandled. The
ures have been features and the literary column has been
as high a standard as can be expected in a college paper.
| fhe main trouble in that department has been lack of inspira| rather than lack of skill. It is difficult to produce a good
e by the process of asking people to turn out compositions
hin a certain time, and that is what every Dalhousie literary
or has been just about compelled to do. As for the edials, our greatest complaint is that this has been such an
versial year. The editorials which make an impresn are those written when the Editor is mad. Despite this
of controversy the column has never been blank. We do
hat the year has not been an entirely wasted one for the
4 The Red Cross Edition stimulated student support for
gent cause, and another issue aroused the ire of the
sident of the Students’ Council himself. What more could
2 b en asked of us?
__ While we are on the subject of the Gazette we should like
make one very specific recommendation. That is that some
zmpt should be made to sell the Gazette to the alumni. At
1 present time there is a Circulation Manager whose job is
ee that the Gazette reaches those whom it should reach—
always an easy tesk—but no provision has been made for
scriptions to t!:- Gazette. Various graduates have expressed
desire to --e the Gazette sent to them, but no price can
be quoted. Jther universities encourage the sale of their
publications, believing that this reminds graduates of their tie
their college. Admittedly there is much in the Gazette which
es even undergraduates, but there can be no doubt that
graduates would like to receive the Gazette if they knew
arrange. a subscription. The office of Circulation
ger ought to be an important one, but it cannot be so
a Council evolves some policy with regard to cifculation.
sides proving a paying proposition, a campaign for graduate
scriptions would. widen the influence of the Gazette and,
ctly, that of Dalhousie.

aw

  

 
 

  
 

 

ss ‘THE BOMBING OF NORTH AMERICA
a An enemy submarine has bombed an oil refinery in
California in a town whose name we cannot remember. We
pee what the effect on public opinion will be. There will be
__ a demand for increased protection of American and Canadian
~ _ ¢ities, an outery against leaving Sur coasts unprotected. It is,
ysahdeed, well, that we should do ail in our power to protect our
a  “Belves.— r. i Y Pointed out in a letter to the
re Citizens Emergence ence ‘Committee, to divert supplies
_ Meant for Russia or Java to ports much less strategically

_ locate lis to play into the hands of the enemy. Théenemy will
rani a great damage i in California ; he may do a arse deal

e may, bea’ lesson there for SNe students. Is it not
| the n nearer cause may always seem to us the more
we will think in terms of Canada, even
er than in term: to the word situation.

he
\N

THE GARDNER LAUGHS
Laughter from us is no unusual thing
But Mr. Fillmore’s has a most peculiar ring.
Starting as a subterranean rumble,’
That threatens to explode and burst this humble
Horny-handed son of toil, he breaks
Into a gale of merriment and shakes
Like a gnarled old oak, his white locks streaming
Ruddy cheeks aflame, ice-blue eyes gleaming.
The pent-up sound pours forth, a storm in miniature,
(Can such a volume come from so small a stature?)
Full throaty notes crash out like distant thunder
That make the passing tourists gape with wonder.
In loud guffaw his body heaves in helpless mirth
And scatters waves of sound across the scented earth.
The flowers leap to life in sudden animation
And birls and eathly things take on a new elation.
In one wild gust his laugh crescendoes to a roar—
It dies upon the wind and then is heard no more.

ANON.
THE CONCERT

For once Mary Ann was not! Josephine didn’t have six brothers
“IT know I’m a better
She can’t sing
Bravely
she choked back a sob for Jim
would feel it was his fault, but he
wasn’t to blame because the pig
it mother’s
fault that the younger children had
been ill so she couldn’t make the
dress. Mother had written to Uncle
Harvey to see if he would give her
the shoes and dress for her birthday, and give them to her now.
This morning Aunt Emma had answered saying that it was all nonsense to let a child be in a concert
She
knew Uncle Harvey would buy her
the dress, but his wife was jealous
of his affection for his nephews and
nieces because she had no children

and sisters.
Princess than she is!
any better than a crow!”

loitering on her way from school.
Filled with joyous anticipation she
skipped merrily up the lane leaping
all the puddles lying in her path.
Bounding into the house she shouted
the news which had thrilled her for
the last two hours. “Mother, I’m
going to be the Princess! Me, the
Princess. Miss Henry picked up
this afternoon, and she gave us the
parts to learn. Can I go over to
Grandma’s an’ tell her?” “Of
course, dear. Well, I declare — my
goodness isn’t that’ nice.” Mrs,
Martin’s tired face lighted up.
“Who else is in it?” “Oh! Harry,
and Barbara, and Tom, and oh,
Josephine is my understudy, the
teacher said. If I get sick or anything she’ll take my part. Course
I ean’t get sick, will I mother? I
just couldn’t!”

Mrs. Martin sighed as Mary Ann
tan down the lane to her grandmother’s. Wearily she plied her iron
across the shirt on the table before
her. The new teacher had decided
to put on an operetta besides the
usual school performances, and to
give the proceeds to the Queen’s
Canadian Fund. All her children
were in the concert, but Mary Ann
was so excited. She had just begun
to worry about where the clothes
they would need were coming from.
It wasn’t fair that they should have
so little just because her husband
had died last year leaving her with
seven children ranging in age from
three months to sixteen years, and
only a small farm to support them.
Bertha could afford half a dozen
dresses for Josephine because her
husband owned a store. Well, I’ll
make Mary Ann a dress, somehow,
she vowed, thinking of all the work
that never ended.

had died. Nor was

when she should be in bed.

of her own.
Jospehine would queen

door.

large cardboard box.
“This box

of it in the concert.”

dress with puffed sleeves.

For two weeks Mary Ann lived in
a rosy cloud. She ate and studied
and minded the baby as if she were
in’ a dream. The minor inconveniences of life bothered her not at
all. Every available moment she
practiced her part in the play going
every night to her grandmother’s
toto perform her songs to the accompaniment of a squeaky organ.
Only when rehearsing was she alive,
and then she was Mary Ann no
longer, but the Princess! She did
not know that Miss Henry thought
she was exceptionally good — the
best she had ever met in her career
of a rural teacher.

Then the sun of Mary Ann’s happiness was covered with a black
cloud for she discovered she must
have white shoes and stockings and
a pretty dress. She had none of
these. But her mother promised
Jim would buy the shoes when the
pig was killed, and she would make
a dress. With her worry ended
Mary Ann threw herself with renewed vigor into her part. She was
determined to be so much better
than Josephine that the teacher
would know she was the Princess.
Then disaster struck.

Mary Ann slowly scuffed her way
up the lane scowling at her heavy
lumberman’s rubbers, the only footwear she owned. Black despair
filled her soul. Tomorrow she would
have to tell the teacher that she
could not be the Princess because
she only had an old dark dress that
no Princess would wear. At recess
Josephine had taunted her, and
laughed at her dress for she knew
Mary Ann didn’t have a costume.
Josephine had told everybody about] )
the new blue dress she had! “It/} 4
isn’t fair!’ Mary Ann cried, deliber- |

   
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   

box,

new one of peach silk.
vey?” asked Mrs. Martin.

of it.”

It was made for a Princess.
she was the Princess — not Josephine.

the dress.

outgrew. She was feeling pleased
with herself because when she had
consented to coming: over here tonight, she had made Harvey promise
not to see the concert.

“Try the peach dress on,” begged
Uncle Harvey. “I want to see how
the Princess will look. You'll be
the happiest girl in the world on
Wednesday night.’”’” Mary Ann smiled happily: “It’s even nicer than
Josephine’s dress!”

Naugler’s
Orchestra

O

38 SHORE ROAD
Call H-6032

 

ately stepping into a large puddle.

Try as hard as she could Mary
Ann simply couldn’t eat any supper because she was thinking how
it over
everybody, and make fun of her at
the dress rehersal tomorrow night.
Suddenly there was a knock on the
Aunt Emma entered followed
by Uncle Harvey, who carried a

came from Ellen.
Nothing would do but Harvey had
to bring it right over because he
thought Mary Ann could use some
Meanwhile
the man opened the box, and held
up the most wonderful red velvet
To more
fastidious eyes the dress showed
signs of having been worn before,
but to Mary Ann it was a miracle
for it fit her. With gentle fingers she
stroked the soft material while the
talk of her elders flowed around her.
In a daze she saw a pair of white
‘shoes and stockings taken from the
Then her mother held up another dress of Mary Ann’s size—a
“Did Har“No”,
snapped Emma, “Ellen sent it. It
was given to Sally, but the style
doesn’t suit her, so Ellen thought
you might be able to make some use
The child was white with
ecstasy. Mary Ann had never imagined such a dress even existed.
Now

 
   
   
  
  
    
  
   
  
  
 
     
     
  
   
   
  
  
   
   
    
   
 
     
    

Emma was glad the child liked
It was kind of Ellen to
remember these distant cousins, and
send them the clothes her children

       
 
      
      
 
    
     
    
 
    
 
  
  
   
   
   
    
      
  
    
 
 
 
  
   
  
  
  
   

      
 
  
 
     
 
  

 
  
  
  

Cs

IF THE DISCUS THROWER COULD TALK—
* I'm golng to throw this thing away and have a Sweet Cap.”

   

 
   

   
   
    
  

SWEET CAPORAL CIGARETTES

“The purest form in which tobacco can be smoked.”

    
 
   
 

 

  
      
 

Faders Drug Stores

135 HOLLIS STREET
29 COBURG ROAD

   

MacLeod - Balcom

LIMITED

O
DRUGGISTS

 
 
    
    

HALIFAX

Nova Scotia

       
  

   
    
  

Headquarters for Students
Requirements

O

HALIFAX - SHEET HARBOUR
KENTVILLE, N. S.

 
   

 
   
 

ASK FOR

DONOVAN’S
BEVERAGES
at DAL CANTEEN

46 Granville St. Halifax, N. S.

     
       
   

     

    
 
     
 
  

FARMERS’
CHOCOLATE MILK

Is Stimulating . . . It Peps You Up!

 
      
   

  
     
    
      
   

    
      
   
    
 
 

“TASTE THE DIFFERENCE”

 
 
 
 

  
  
   
   
  
 

The Lure of
Precious Stones

For thousands of years
mankind has treasured
precious stones.

They are precious because they combine
beauty to charm, durability to preserve the
beauty and rarity to
keep it above the commonplace.

A visit to Birks will tell.
its own story.

Henry Birks & Sons
LIMITED
Registered Jewellers,
American Gem Society
Barrington St. - = Baliies, N. S.

 
    
 
  
 
 
  
 

WELCOME
TO
DALHOUSIE

   
 
 
 
 
 
    
    
   
 

O

    
   
  
  
  

BLAKELEY’S

43 Spring Garden Road

      
 

   
  

Dalhousie Gniversity

Halifax, Nova Scotia

Maintains a: High Standard of Scholarship.
Includes all the principal Faculties of a University.
Largest Staff, Libraries, Laboratories in Eastern Canada.

        
    

Arts and Science Faculty
Degrees: B.A., B.Sc., B. Com., B. Mus., Phm. B.

Diplomas: Music, Engineering, Pharmacy, Education.

Four Year Advanced Courses ir. Classics, Mat
Modern Languages and Histo 7 eee ot

      
     
     

     

ve ine oe recognized standing, leading to degrees

Courses—preparatory to Professional Faculties,
Course in Public Administration.

Many valuable scholarships,
the courses.

        
 

on entrance and through

     
   

  

The Professional Faculties

eu ; =
Law, Medicine, Dentistry, enjoy an unexcelled reputation.

    
 

 

   

Inclusive Fees: in the B.A. course ave b
in the B.Sc. course, about $190 7 can $160 a year.

      
   
 

cm Residence
rreff Hall, residence for women.
remeially super pervised residential faculties for men.

tS San: RRS: Beats Str A AT ROR:

 
       

. | pela. 2 27, 1942

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
   
      

—_wyT’
"y:

zs

the course too thoroughly.

== —

= <

 

ay

In our brief saevey of the Inevitable Courses offered by the Uni__ versity, it would be unwise to omit some excursion into the Vast and

_ Improbable realms of Chemistry, or give no attention to the Multiferous
_ Advantages to be accrued from this Study.
_ discoursed on the Technical side of the course, here, for all who face the
prospect of Chemistry 1, are the Insights and Highlights of the Course.

Where previously we have

Chemistry 1 as given by the University, is probably one of the most

- Spectacular courses offered. Here the Instructor is at no loss for means

of exciting and holding the attention of the Class. The instant it begins
to wane, he can, at a moment’s notice, produce any variety of very
spectacular and satisfying Explosions; by resorting to the many bottles
of colored liquid on the shelves behind his desk. In this manner, then,

you can expect to get more out of the Class, since there is always the

possibility that he will blow himself up or that the front rows will be
suffocated, or that some other entertainment will result; causing much
suspense and avid interest, to your Ultimate Advantage.

It is extremely interesting to note that Chemistry is one of the most

_ Abstract and Metaphysical Sciences, being wholly made up or various

Hypnoses, Theorems, and other Conceptions. The most revealing of these

is the famous Avogadro’s Hypnosis, which supposes that everything is

made up of Colored Balls on pieces of Wire, revolving at huge rates of
speed in vast immaterial space. This is the famous Immolecular Con
ception, and Scientists have been hypnotized into believing it to be correct

ever since, for no one has yet had nerve enough to dispute it. .

Another Inevitable and Interesting factor about Chemistry is that
the Chemist is greatly concerned with Formulae. These are the Complete
Chemist’s breadand butter, for no one who does not possess an adequate
supply of Formulae can hope to gain eminence in this field. These
Formulae were all invented in some obscure way by another Scientific
Egotist named Valentz, who preferred a whiz of an analogy about Hooks
to substantiate his theorem.

Springing from the Immolecular Conception, and invented by some
Scottish Chemist, is the Remarkable theorem about Ians. This proves
conclusively that when you put something in water it immediately decomposes into innumerable particles, which result in the Mass Law, and
eventually become K. This is the ultimate Solubility Product, and no
matter how you proceed, the result is always K, to your confusion.

Of the more Fascinating and Enlightening sub-sections involved in
Chemistry 1, none could be more so than that branch dealing with
Organic Chemistry, or the chemistry involving innumerable things about
Carbide atoms. Of these, the most interesting is that of the discovery
of Benzene, which was done by some Spanish Chemist who was called
Kukule. He was seated before his fireplace one night, and he saw a
lump of coal disintegrate, before his very eyes. With astounding
Chemical Perspicacity, he pounced on this event, and declared that he
had found Benzene. It has been ultimately proven, since Kukule’s time,
that it is possible to extract Benzene from coal, benzine, and a number
of different things, but this goes to show the extent to which Chemical
Hypnosis can lead to the proper conclusion. Organic Chemistry also
gives one the opportunity of learning a number of fascinating things,

| like how to Distill your own Liquor, Make your own Soap, etc.

Thus, it would be well for those contemplating the study of Chemistry

_ to realize that they must change their outlook on things in general, and

Chemistry in particular; for in no other branch of learning is the
material world so thoroughly agitated, analyzed, dissociated, dissolved
and desiccated than by means of Chemistry 1. We cannot recommend

 

Dear Cluntie Effie:

As I warned all you dear children two weeks ago, the female
version of my column proved to be exactly what was expected. But
then the poor Freshettes must haye a chance sometime and at least
they had the decency not to use and ruin my good name. Now we
ean get back to earnest and sincere efforts to help all you dears in
your love troubles and I hope none suffered at the hands of the spiteful dears last week.

2 ak a a
Another letter this week is from a sweet young Halifax lady, a Miss
Mary T., who writes to say she has had a fight with a young engineer,
a certain Blanchard W., and this time it seems to be the real thing. She

a Nie continues by saying she used to like him but since he publically an
nounced that he was through with her, she is very puzzled. My dear
child, he has announced this before so just ignore it but I’d just let things
stand as a parting might be best for all. He will be safe from other

; bi - females as long as another Babe, the would-be freshette campus queen,

 

ge
hae

doesn’t get him and even Mr, W. isn’t foolish enough to bother with her.
* od * *

During the last few weeks a great number of letters I ‘have re-:
ceived have a direct bearing on the recent controversy at Sherriff
Hall. This subject has had a strenuous workout in the Gazette and I
feel the entire campus is getting pretty fed up with it. The whole
idea was started as a joke which Sherruffians have not been able to
take. There is some truth in the matter and the inability of the girls
to see the whole thing as a joke does not help their position. To the
girls I would suggest more sleep and no more of their all night
gossips regarding their dates of the preceding evening. The public
displays of outward childishness, especially among the freshettes,
can be dispensed with. A general checkup of their actions instead of
yain attempts to attack the males, as was in evidence in the co-ed
edition of the Gazette which, due to this fact, was away below usual
standards, would be much more successful. Other colleges, like
Acadia, do not suffer in this manner so, for your own sake girls, wise
up and let’s forget about it.

* * ok x

One letter, this week, comes in criticism of the recent daytime ap
- pearance of G. Hennigar who left the Hall, smothered in Lipstick. Yes,

geen certainly is very cheap but then you can’t criticize the girls for
_ trying to hold on to what little they have, eh Roz.

And so, my darlings, until we meet again next week, try and be
_ good so I can have some time to enjoy myself.
Hopefully yours,

mye 6

s 7 ' ‘
i. : ‘i :
Fes ; — ‘rs ' : A
i 7 i , ht 4 7 5
i Sax ges “ 7h
ee: : br 4 . ~
Y ra
£
1

te

(Apologies to

   
 
  

   
    
   
  

This here is a Watchboid
watching a Boozie

&>

Manly

   

   

— ———_

‘Stinky’ Miller hasn’t been able
to come down to earth since she
was purchased for four bits and a
dime at the recent Glee Club
auction. Come on Doreen, give
the boy a break for you must remember next year you'll be a

Sophmore.
of *

We are told that Kissy junior is
up to something new. This time she
is on a diet. Keep it up dear and
riage you'll come down two pounds
to 148.

* *x* *

We hear Jim Moir was in town
over the week-end. Too bad you
couldn’t make connections Bunny,
or could there have been a reason.

a a

Speaking of Bunny, there was
quite an exodus to Paradise last
week-end that relieved the campus
of the Morse girls and Kissy senior.
Those Aldershot parties must really
be something to be considered
Paradise. <

* *

The Grimest party, of late, was
the Commerce banquet, which we

F2SQUARE

This column was conspicuously absent on the Third Page last week,
probably because the girls wouldn’t
dare attack the only ALL masculine faculty on the campus. At least
there was no harm done; except to
Doug Robertson, who holds a doubtful place among the Engineers because of his shady relative.

We still would like to know when
they started making red-headed
negroes — Burris thought that ht
had everyone fooled Friday night.
The Masque was quite a success: it
even lured out some of the rarely
seen specimens—Burgess, Fielding,
MacLeod, Skinner and other sundries,

There’s a lot to be told about
Mussett’s recent escapades, but he
threatened to sue us for libel last
time—so just get him in a good
mood and he’ll tell you all about it
himself,

We knew Oland’s parties were
good, but Les MacLean is the first
guy to get seasick in a hotel,

Did amyone ever notice how Johnny MacLean’s sick spells seem to
come on every time a certain Pictou County girl comes down?

I think that Doshie is out after
Wiswell, not Jeff—he sure is a lucky
L’il Abner—and then, as he says,
“T have to do SOMETHING in return, don’t I?”—+so, we hear it’ll be
the supper dance. It is known technically as reciprocation (same thing
as falling).

OXFORD

Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday
“SUSPICION”

“MOON OVER HER
SHOULDER”

0
Thursday, Friday, Saturday

“HONKEY TONK”
“WEEK-END FOR THREE”

    

 

 

The Watchboid

Were You a Boozie
This Week?

STL

ooo co

  
   
   
 
  
   
   
   
  

Munro Leaf)

This here is a Boozie.

  
 
 

 

 

hear was quite damp. It’s too bad
none of those inattendance can remember the evening’s events or they
might explain the sudden disappearance of Les MacLean as well as
that of Muriel Barrie. Could this

have been a coincidence?
Ld * *

We hereby
publish this un‘| retouched photo
m| graph of our
‘Moose’, who,
though he tried
to escape, could
not avoid the

Too bad
Basketball
game interfered
but nobody can
say he
try.

 

x *x *

Part of the entertainment seems
to have been a military strip-tease
by Lt. Walker, while the only
misbehaving young lady, Norrie
Douglas, looked on. Your playing
with fire, Norrie, watch out.

* a
..The most outstanding thing at
the Sadie Hawkins dance seemed to
be the thrift of the Haul girls.. The
Freshettes seem to have purchased
one piece of material and all used
it for their costumes and boy was
it monotonous.
oe mm *

Not content with making obnoxious pests with themselves on this
campus, three of the local freshettes were busy waking Acadia
co-eds during the recent female
basketball trip to Wolfville. But
then we suppose they were in
search of the eternal secret, that
of catching the male students on
which point the Wolfville residents have been successful and the
Sheriff Hall second fi floor, have not.

*

We wonder where Turner got the
discoloration, and why his choice of
‘My Melancholy Baby’ in the Gym
Store.

—_————_—

we

goodness of the real th

 

didn’t

The taste-good, ca need rofealinant of ce
cold “Coca-Cola” is everything your thirst
could ask for. It’s all you want and you want
it all. Nothing ever equals the quality and
ing.
THE COCA-COLA COMPANY OF CANADA, LIMITED
HALIFAX

 
 

  
   
 

  

Feomatont s Picobac spread such acharm above him,

That even stone must come alive to love him.

  
 

    
    
     
 
    
   
  
    
  
  
 
   
   
  
      
   
      
  
 
  
 
      
         

@ She is wise who plays her “Galatea” to a man
who smokes Picobac. He is sure to be contented.
For the pick of Canada’s Burley crop is always
a mild, cool, sweet smoke. And economical!
In fact, to amend R. L. Stevenson, ‘“‘No woman
should matty a man who does not smoke

Picobac,”
also packed in Pocket Tins

Picobac

“lt DOES taste good in a pipe!”

HANDY SEAL-TIGHT POUCH « 15¢
1%-LB. “LOK-TOP” TIN - 65¢

 

 

 

ORPHEUS

Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday

Garrick

A Femons Players

“DR. KILDARE’S VICTORY” Sat. - Mon. - sgl
‘ROAD AGENT” “SULLIVAN’S TRAVELS”
Starring

0
Thursday, Friday, Saturday
“COWBOY S7TRANADE”
— with —
GENE AUTREY

Joel McCrae — Veronica Lake
Plus Two Swell Shorts

Wed. - Thurs. -. Friday

“CLOSE CALL F OR
ELLERY QUEEN
“MURDER MYSTERY”
“CADETS ON PARADE”
Thrills! Drama!

CO
Midnite Sunday, March Ist
“DR. KILDARE’S VICTORY”

Capitol
Players Sheatre

*

Six Days Starting Thurs.

*

Action!

 

 

The New

CASINO

Starts Saturday, February 28
CO

“Go West
Young Lady”

A Musical Weestern
with Ooomph!

   
    
  
   
   

  
 
   
    

        
     
     
       
       
       
       
       
     
  
  

“Captains of

The Clouds”

with with
PENNY SINGLETON
GLEN FORD
ANN MILLER

James Cagney
Brenda Marshall

qe as

Pere sire ete neehety

EE ae

eh eee

Go refreshed

You t trust its quality
 
  
  

 

a
F
ne

. i ell
ve .
Si eet

s> *

Gin The Navy On The Chin

  

k Stars

tk

But Fail To Get Last Vital Win

For two days last week the Dalhousie hockey Tigers rose

to greater heights than they have achieved in years.

On two

consecutive days they won two consecutive games: defeating
Navy, 5-4, and Acadia, 8-6. After a shaky satrt early in the
season, when the gold and black pucksters were suffering the
effects of poor condition, and the Tigers lost a number of their
starts, they finally broke out into a scoring rash that snatched

two games from the fire.

The game against Navy had the
result that the Bengals established
themselves as contenders for the
Service League Championship, for,
having once broken the ice, the
Tigers looked good to win some
more games, both from Navy and
St. Mary’s, and then wind up in a
play-off spot. The Dal-Acadia fixture was an exhibition contest between the arch-rivals. On a previous occasion the Axemen had won
a 6—8 decision, and were favored
to repeat. However, Dal showed
unexpected scoring and defensive
power and won handily.

At the end of the first period the
Axemen held a 2—1 advantage, the
Dal score having been tallied by
Bill Fraser on a pass from “Dooley” MacIntosh. In the second pegiod, however, the Tigers found their
scoring punch and ripped in six
counters with only one from the
Acadians. The scoring parade was
started by “Joey” Evans, who tallied unassisted, but then Marty
MacDonald took over and rapped
two pucks past the Acadia goaltender to make the score 4—2 for
Dal. Continuing the scoring spree,
Sleep, Fraser and Evans flashed the
red light before the period ended,
to make the scorer’s book read 7—
8 for Dal.

In the third period Marty MacDonald again scored unassisted, his
third of the night, and though Acadia punched three scores past Ted
Hennigar in the Dal nets, the Tigers
held an 8—6 advantage when the
final bell rang.

Outstanding in the Dal win was
the goaling performance of young
Hennigar, who took a tremendous
satisfaction in defeating his former
team-mates. Hennigar’s work has
been outstanding in the past three
games, since he took over the goaltender’s job, and much of the Dal
success must be attributed to him.
However, games are seldom, if ever,
won by defensive work alone, and
the spectacular work of Evans, Marty MacDonald, Bill Fraser, Gordie
Wilson and MacIntosh has kept the
Tigers in the goal-scoring race.

 

In the Dal-Navy game it was a
determined rally late in the game
that netted five goals, which resulted in the Dal win. With the jacktars holding a 3——0 lead in the
second period, the Tigers went hogwild to take the lead, on goals
scored by Dave Doig, “Dooley” MacIntosh, Fraser and McKelvie. Most
spectacular was the performance of
Doig, who rapped in two on perfect
passes from Wilson.

It was the end of a scoring famine
which has affected Dal hockey teams
for some years past, and which has
rendered abortive all efforts to make
the Tiger ice machine a potent factor in local leagues. But having
once found their scoring eye, Burney Ralston’s ice-men could be expected to go om to the completion
of a successful season.

 

Hoopsters Take Acadia

The Dal Tigers continued their
string of victories in the Halifax
City League when they travelled to
Acadia on Tuesday night, and wound
up the league schedule by administering a-32-12 defeat to’ the Axemen. It was the Tigers’ sixth appearance in league play, and their
sixth victory. On previous occasions they had defeated Navy, 45-24
and 39-26, Air Force, 35-19 and 2614, and Acadia 51-19. The grand
total showed 226 points for the
Tigers, and 115 for their opponents,
with six games won and none lost
in league competition. And with
the league schedule complete, the

__ Stage was set for the playoffs, with

the Tigers and Navy clashing in a
two-game, total score series, for the
championship of the City League,
and the right to advance to provinsial playdowns.

—_

TIE SAINTS 3-3

Dalhousie’s hockey Tigers bowed
out by the Service League race on
Tuesday afternoon when they were
held to a 3-3 draw by St. Mary’s.
Going into the game needing a win,
the Dal pucksters put up a great
fight, but found the sloppy ice rather
than the Santamarians, just too
much for them.

The Tigeres started off in high
gear, and midway through the first
canto held a 2-0 lead by virtue of
petty scores by Bill Fraser and
Marty MacDonald. With the forward line clicking smoothly, the defence of Webber and MacDonald
handling the smaller Santamarians
with ease, and Ted Hennigar proving a stone wall in the nets, prospects seemed good for a Dal win.
In the second period, the St. Mary’s
sextet took advantage of an opening and rifled home a puck to cut
the Dal lead down to one goal.

The third period found the Tigers
beginning to wheeze slightly as a
result of the hard-going, and tHe St.
Mary’s forwards began to find their
shooting eyes. Before the period
had half-ended, they had tallied
twice to take a 3-2 lead, and the Dal
cause had suddenly become desperate. With about five minutes to
go, Bill Fraser made a nice rush to
score unassisted, and tie up the
contest. But in spite of frenzied
efforts to count again, the Tigers
were held off, and the bell rang to
end the game, and ring down the
curtain and Dal’s hockey league
hopes for the year.

FOR MEN ONLY

If we didn’t have absolute proof,
we wouldn’t believe it possible. But
the unalterable fact remains that
Dalhousie’s co-ed basketball team is
out to get the Acadiettes on Saturday, and no mistake. The fixture
is to be played in the Dal Gym at
twelve noon, precisely, and the student body will miss a good bet if it
fails to drop in to watch the excitement on its way home to dinner.
(We mean the student body’s dinner
— not the excitement’s. Excuse,
please, the ambiguity).

Dal’s line-up will include Laura
Bissett, Mary McKeigan, Anita
Rosenblum, Vera Crummey, Doshie
Stairs, Marg Morrisson, Inez Smith,
Anita Reid, Kay Smith and perhaps
others of’ Dalhousie’s lovelies.

Still seeing red as a result of the
beating they absorbed from the
Acadiettes at Wolfville, the abovementioned octette has foresworn all
frivolity until vengeance is achieyed. No dances on Friday night —
whereat a great many Pine Hillers
who intend to foot it neatly tonight
are cursing mightily. The gals are
probably even now applying a touch
of carmine to the claws, and plotting
devious schemes whereby they will
trip up the Axettes and send them
home with loud groanings and’
gnashings of teeth.

Don’t miss it! The struggle of
the century—When Felines Meet—
will be staged tomorrow (Saturday)
at twelve noon in the gym.

 

The Acadia-Dal contest found the
Tigers throwing up their usual defence, and holding the Axemen down
to small figures. The gold-and-black
quintet delayed their offensive until
late in the second period, when they
really hit their stride and ran in
seven baskets without a reply from
the Acadians. The backbone of the
Dal defence was the Smith-Wilson
duo, who also managed to rap in
in 16 points, a half the team total,
between them. MacLeod, in his
usual spot at centre, tallied twelve
points to lead the scorers of both
teams. “Yank” Forsythe made two
nice field goals for four points,
while McKenzie, though held score
 

 

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

SPORT Spice

By AL MacLEOD

   

For awhile this week it looked as though Dal’s hockeyists
were on the “glory” road, as they prepared to make a last,
desperate drive to salvage a spot in the Service League playoffs.
With two nice wins tucked under their belts, the icemen were
showing form superior to anything they had demonstrated all
season. All they needed was a win from St. Mary’s. But the
Santamarians, remembering the humiliation of last fall’s rugby
sessions, when the football Tigers took them over the hurdles
handily, were determined to rob the Bengals of their prize.
It was a torrid struggle, and perhaps the best game of the
season in some respects. But when regulation time had elapsed,
the score was 3-3, and the Dal sextet had required a win and
nothing less. Overtime? It would have been a good idea, but the
man who owned the ice rushed out waving a broom, and making
with the language, crying in a loud voice: ‘‘You cannot have my
ice because somebody else has my ice—so there!” There wasn’t
anything one could do in such a situation, so the Ralstonians
retired disconsolately to the dressing-room, to weep upon each
other’s shoulders, and to remove their sweaty vestments and to
attempt to wangle enough out of the D.A.A.C. for a small
coke....

* *K * ue

In the meantime the senior basketball team was unobservedly pursuing its winning ways, and was doing things
that hadn’t been done by a Dal team since 1934. It ran through
the City League schedule without a defeat, and then sat upon
its haunches, chewing on an orange and perspiring gently,
awaiting a playoff series with the Navy which would decide
the League championship. And while it was crossing no
bridges before they were hatched, it was wondering what would
happen when and if they did take the title. Would the Council
rally round and make financial music in their ears so the team
could go further—to provincial playdowns, and perhaps to the
Maritime playdowns? Nobody seemed to know—but everybody
had hopes, if nothing more....

* a a *

Down at the Law School, the bailiwick, betimes, of this
poor scribe, there were brave doings. One Robert ‘“The Baron”’
Frankish, angular and. gentlemanly in appearance, had embarked upon a “fitness” campaign. “Are you fit?” he would
query, much in the manner of old-time salvationists who once
were prone to cry: “Are you saved?” Not waiting a reply, his
procedure was to fling wide the portals and open all the
windows, inviting the wintry blast to whip itself around poor
shivering legal frames and the naked shoulders of his mates.
Rumour had it that milord the Baron, having invested in cotton
“gym” outfit, was given to standing, in the early dawn, before
his wintry window, running the gamut of calisthensic lore.
But withal, though icicles twinkled in the Baronial mustache,
and frost-bite had had its day on the Frankish nose, the ‘‘Fitness and Fresh Air” campaign was still unappreciated, especially by his forensic fellows.

less, played an excellent defensive
game and worked well up front.

Forsythe, 4; McKenzie; MacLeod,
12; Smith, 7; Wilson, 9; Fraser;
Bauld; MacDonald.

FLASH!

Dal hoop Tigers win first of
.League play-off series, 46— 32,.
and mark third straight victory
over the Tars this season. Wilson
with 16 points and MacLeod with
13 lead Bengals to victory, with
Smith, Forsyth, MacKenzie, Dunbrack, Webber and McDonald
playing bang-up game. Second
game next Thursday night.

APPLICATIONS

Applications will be received
by Murray Rankin for Editorship
of the Gazette, Business Manager of the Gazette, and Editor
of the Student Directory for next
year.

   
  

solves you
colored
pencil
problems

 

SHARPE $

PERFECTLY oS
g The flexible poses
oP leads end all

 
  
  
   
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    

 
 

this famed fabric

~ waste lead from
broken points in
daily use.

HOLDS ITS POINT

By actual test one Verithin
point makes over 4,000 brilliant
check marks,

PROTECTS YOUR RECORDS
Notations made with its insoluble lead will not smear under
moist hands nor run from accidental wetting. Buy Verithin,
24 colors to choose from—
10c¢ each—tless in quantities

MADE IN CANADA By
EAGLE PENCIL COMPANY

“GIES Chomi- eG

LL
Csi

Tailors knows how.

of colors and patterns.

COLORED PENCILS

 

@ Kinross Tweeds are “musts” in the wardrobes of
hundreds of ease men since Tip Top introduced
ast season.

pet re tweeds—they’re
as British as a bull-dog and just as st h. They’
brisk, colorful, heen tad tht for oS

of course, tailored to your measure as only Tip Top

Kinross Tweeds are a real “break” for th
man’s pocket-book. One of Tip ms CREME
values at the regular Tip price.

British and domestic fabrics,

$275

TAILORED -~TO-MEASURE

 

 

“ilies...

February 27, 1942

Win Two and Tie One -- But Bow Out

 

And while the Tigers were definitely “off” on their shooting, and were
unused to the change from the large
Dal gym to the small “Y” court, the
81-21 victory posted by the Y’smen

SUFFER HOOP LOSS

The undefeated succession of victories which the Tigers have been
piling up throughout the season was
brought to an abrupt ending on Sat- was decisive.
urday night when the Bengals went Burney Ralston played his first
down to the “Y” to meet the Y.M. |game with the.gold and black squad,
C.A. Intermediates in an exhibition!,nq led the Dal scorers with seven

game. It was the second meeting of | points, followed by Wilson with six,
the year between the two clubs, the

and McLeod with four. Callaghan
Tigers having taken a decision from of the “Y" led Hie scorera ofboth
the “Y” earlier in the season. The |ioams with ten points.

“¥” has long been regarded as @| ‘With the score for the year endclub of senior calibre, even though ing one-all, both teams are looking
they are this year playing inter- | forward to a third encounter in the
mediate ball, and on Saturday night ‘near furture, and both are equally
they had plenty of striking power.'qetermined to make it decisive.

 
   
  
  
 

You're missing a lot if you
haven't tried Philip Morris
Mixture, today's greatest
value in pipe tobacco.

In pouches, packages and /% Ib. tins.

 

| THE

The NATIONAL FISH CO.
LIMITED

FRESH FISH SPECIALISTS
HALIFAX - NOVA SCOTIA

EVANGELINE
TEA ROOM

564% SPRING GARDEN ROAD
B-9571

 

DALHOUSIANS:
for your

TOILET ARTICLES
MEDICINES
PERFUMERY
CHOCOLATES
KODAKS
CIGARS

YOU SHOULD PATRONIZE

KINLEY’S

THE REXALL STORES
— at —

490 BARRINGTON STREET
LORD NELSON HOTEL

 

 

    
     
     
       
 
    
 
       
 
       

ion-right for Spring and

vee GREA
ide selection
undreds of other fine

HUNDREDS OF

PATTERNS TO
CHOOSE FROM

418-420 Barrington Street

Carl Merson, Dartmouth Agent.

~*~
i.
be 
 

 
