 

BY DON BLACK

a - One Lionel Salt, apparently a
sage of some sort at U. B. C. notes
the disorganization wreaked upon

- Long Island University by Washing_ton’s Huskies in a basketball game
ae in New York recently. The honoray eat ‘Mr. ‘Salt also notes that the
“explosion ball” type of game, fostered and reared at U. B. C. was

responsible for it all, being credited
as with making the U. B. C. Thunderbird Dominion basket champs last
us) year.

_ Apparently the idea is that the
players cut in, run about afd generally are all over the place and shoot

whenever there is a clear strutch
___—_— of air between the ball and the bas‘ket. This is naturally shooting very,
very often but as a player does not

' not get “set” for any shots more
shots are made and because of in
_ tensive practice a lot of them get

_ home. If this is actually a new type

of game it bears investigation. The

i - main hitch seems to be that one
__ needs to train the players to a point

_ * where they can throw a pass like

Johnny Martin could and then dash

* around and pick it up themselves.

This might be difficult even for

ti _ Smith, MacLeod. and Wilson, but

vy
* ak

speed might click around here for

i

od
ea

1

 
  

4

the first team that studied it and
: » worked out a few of the fine points.

 

i When the Prince of Wales and Re_ _ pulse were lost off Malaya, students
In at the University of Alberta rose ad-__ mirably to the Jap challenge. Despite

_ the fact (learned later) that a bat
»  tle-ship cost forty million dollars,
they decided to raise a fund to replace those mighty R. N. craft.

1 _ Last reports state thirty-seven cents
‘@ have been collected.

fi

ha

 

2

We'd like to dedicate this column
to Al MacLeod, because the Argosy
from Mt. A. (and Moose went there
we believe) carries the following
poem:

A daredevil Junior called Moose,
_ Decided he ruled the caboose;

¥
: But along came Sweet Sue,
With a new trick or two,
) . And Moose was once more on the

eh loose.
“@, His innocent partner was Hump,
___- His heartbeat went with a jump,
ee He wined her and dined her
And then couldn’t find Her,
y~ So Hump was all kinds of a chump.
The” moral being—Freshettes is
crazy.
The latter we understand, as for
_ the rest WE DON’T GET IT, but
then, it’s about Moose so why worry.

   

i”
t

  
  
  

=

 

: Mary had a steam boat

The steam boat had a bell,

Mary went to heaven

And the steam boat went toot,
toot. Argosy. _

 

a The Manitoban tells the story of
‘y the professor who drank 6 cokes and
_ burped 7 up. :

 

Fre a We've achieved a life-long am+ bition. Other columnists are always
7? Cis finding mistakes in other people’s

4. papers but we never do. We found

of if one. The Gateway, from Alberta
_ where they raise cattle by the thousds (there are only thirty in the
at home) writes the following

a

as the glowing branding iron
“pressed against HER tender
_ flank. We maintain that Maritime
steers (mostly bum) are males even

though the “vet” did attend them
_ when they were litt

mething on the line that they

ce

é
UN

}

  

 

-|places for them to stay while they

v4 ,
a 6
} P =
/ : Tiwe vf ie a a7] "
= | a a Tapes ie
F i ab AN View ee
ie Bie ‘ oY es
as Bi Fi rf an”: ae fry
agree i hme -.
Sey Ha ee Set Ae
aa ar ae

ie

CT

VOL. LXXIV

o Le
: A
(

i ,
: A si ‘
: Fg A oe
Sor

; amet
oe RE . 7 oe. a aes eo ee
Fouwis ee Gate” ape aie ie ey re EN,»
Nef. OOM RAV te

la eee y > tee wie yl ' ‘
; r) ey ‘ ,
eae Ue ;

5 + : ?

; ar’ ; <
Bagel te ee A
Faw. ' ‘ “sty

{ . us
f r . }

HALIFAX, N. S., 30, 1942

 

Council Again
Places Budgets
Under Fire

In an attempt to clear up the
1941-42 budget for once and for all
the Council called upon the presidents of the various societies to sit
in on the semi-annual financial
meeting of the Counicl held Thursday in the Men’s Common Room.

Among the reports heard were
those of the Glee Club, the Gazette,
and the D.A.A.C. That of the D.A.
A.C. not being complete, the D. A.
A.C. financial status was left hanging in the balance until final disposition of it could be made at a future meeting. It was decided that
the President of the D.A.A.C., Mr.
Blois, and the managers of the
various clubs should meet
Messrs. Rankin and MacDonald on
Sunday afternoon in order to untangle the finances and gain a true
idea of the state of affairs.

Among other things, it was decided that at the present time, because
of the low state of finances, Badminton players should be charged
an additional five cents per bird on
badminton night. Thus the charge
becomes twenty cents per bird
instead of the gormer cost of fifteen cents. The student will still be
able to save fifteen cents per bird,
since they sell retail at thirty-five
eents apiece.

It was gratifying to the Council,
however, to learn that most of the
organizations are within or under
the budgets made out for them by
the Council.

Also on the agenda was the establishing of a committee to lead
the I.S.S. drive. It was decided to
combine this drive with the one to
gain funds to aid Mt. Allison students with books and other materials which they lost in the preChristmas fire. John Windebank and
A. W. Gaudet were placed in charge
of this committee.

A report on the Red Cross Ball
was heard and the Council passed

 

a vote of thanks to Mr. Jones on

his splendid job and congratulated
him on the success of his enterprise.

 

 

Mackie Appeals
For Student
Support

 

An appeal! for aid for the refugee
and interned students in Europe and
China was made to Dal students
by Robert Mackie, general secretary
of the World Student Christain Federation in an address on Saturday.
Interned himself for a short time
after the fall of France when he
was on his way from the peace-time
headquarters of the federation at
Geneva to Canada, Mr Mackie was
able to describe graphically the
needs of those who are still interned
in Europe.

The speaker made an appeal for
funds on behalf o fthe International
Student Service which provides
comforts, chiefly in the form of
books, for students interned or prisoners of war in Europe and North
America. At present he stressed
that Canada is not sending any money out of the country but all that
has been donated to the service organization is being used in its national work. This year the organization hopes to raise $4,000 in Canadian Universities.

Mr. Mackie drew from the experiences of Andre D’Blonay, general
secretary of the ILS.S. to tell of
conditions in European concentration camps. He said many of these
camps, particularly in France, were
not for detention of students but

jwere in the country, impoverished

with °

 

 

No. 14

 

Charity Fu

 

Web MacDonald officiates at the drawing of prizes during “bank
hour” while Chairman Ken Jones lends a helping hand.

 

 

One Moment Please

 

A hearty invitation is extended to all those on Dal’s
campus who are interested in Christian fellowship to
attend an inter-varsity fellowship meeting. “A good time
is assured”.
Time: 4.30 p.m. Sunday.
Place: 332 South Street.

Speaker: Rev. Harry Newman.
ze * * *

The Council would like to call the |
attention of the student body to the
fact that, by an arrangement enrangement entered into by the Stu- |
dents’ Council with the Arena, kat |
ing will be free to Dal students on |

BASKETBALL

For the next two Thursday
evenings, dances are heing planned to follow the regularly scheduled basketball games. There are
two basketball games each Thurs
 

presentation of Council ticket at fae i
any regular skating session at the day, beginning at 8 o’clock and
Cathey. ending at 10 o’clock. From 10
s & * until 12 there will be dancing to
ATTENTION, GRADUATES! || Music of the PA system. Bring

your girl early to see the games
and then remain for the dancing
afterwards.

Dal bids fair to make a clean
sweep of the City League this
year, having won it in football,

is your book and it’s up to you
to make it the best yet. How?
(1) Turn biography form in to
Did you know the Year Book
day.

(2) Choose the picture you ‘ .
want in the book and let your and with great expectations for
photographer know your choice basketball. Come out and sup; port your team. To date the

(3) Buy your book now—$2 is
the price; selling campaign closes
Feb. 15th. Only those books sold
by that date shall be ordered.
Books may be purchased from
any of the following:

Sandy Macdonald
Anita Rosenbloom
Jean Cameron
W. C. Amey

Inez Smith.

number of spectators has greatly
| exceeded that of previous years,

but much greater student support is possible.

 

Boys, go easy on the kick-a-poo
joy juice and be good to Daisy
Mae. She is out to get her man
on the 17th of February.

EDITORIA

A GREAT ACT OF SOLIDARITY
(by RORERT MACKIE)

 

A parcel of books were sent recently into a prison-camp in
Germany to a British officer who had been taken prisoner in
Greece. A question was asked, “Is there anything else we
could send you?” “No, thank you,” he replied, “except an account for these books, as I should like to reimburse you
as soon as | am free. As a student after the last war I took a
humble part in helping to raise funds for European Student
Relief, and I know that you can find good use for every pound
subscribed.’ So once again this, splendid piece of co-operation
is being true to its name, and recognizes no frontiers between
those who genuinely desire to study. The work is carried out
by International Student Service in co-operation with the
World’s Student Christian Federation and Pax Romana. the
international Roman Catholic student secretariat. It is entirely
impartial and meets genuine need wherever it can.

Where are the students who depend upon its services?
Well, we have begun by mentioning prisoners of war. What
very few people realize Is that there are six millions of them
in a dozen countries. and that is a conservative estimate—a
body of men eaual in size to half the ponulation of Canada

. ‘ .
 DOENINIG. 1) Th Oo ¢ D

Ab hk Y «. oe
‘\ *

arbed A stad 9oZen Or rn
_— Dette a i eee. rT)
; at ¥/ ;

nction Hu

~ MacDonald Speaks . . . Jones Listens

 

ge Success

WELL SUPPORTED BY SERVICEMEN;

_ FEW STUDENTS ATTEND; DANCE
CAPABLY HANDLED
|

Preceded by great publicity and hullabaloo the first Dal
| formal to be held in the Gymnasium proved an enormous success. Although students themselves were conspicuous by their
| absence, this was more than made up for by the large attendance of Service men and city people. From the opening strains
'of music to the last waitz everything went off with clockwork
perfection. The dance was really begun with the broadcast
|over CHNS, in which Adelaide Fleming and Louise Bishop

 

   
   

a

excelled.

 

STUDENTS DISPLAY
INVENTIVE GENIUS

The inventive genius of two of|
| King’s students bids fair to revolu- |
| who: failed to avail themselves of

| tionize the entire art of lying in
| bed in the mornings. No longer
hag the old excuse of “I overslept’
suffice to quell the wrath of innocent professors; no longer may a
nighthawk hope to recuperate by
sleeping until 11 or 12 o’clock in the
morning after a long hard night of
dancing and roistering in convivial
company. All has been changed.
The blame for it all lies with Bob
Forbes and Hubert Drillen, residents
of Pine Hill. Drillen started it last
year at King‘s College by the invention of a remarkable contraption
that, with the first notes of the
alarm clock in the morning, set coffee to percolating, turned on thé
radio, closed the window, and turned
on the light.

This apparently complicated mechanism was in action very simple.
An alarm clock was nailed to the
window sill and a piece of string
|looped around the alarm key, with
the other end of the string being
attached to the window. When the
alarm went off, the loop slipped off
and closed the window by means of
a block of wood and a pulley. When
the window was lowered it set a hot
plate in operation, thus heating coffee which had been prepared the
previous night, the radio and. the
reading lamp.

This year, Bob Forbes, to cope
with the age old problem of getting up in the mornings, originated
his own variation of the same
scheme. His contraption includes
the alarm clock attached to a battery-bell circuit so that when the
alarm goes off it pulls a switch, thus
completing the circuit. It takes
several minutes to turn off the bell
so that the process proves an
awakening influence. Truly, friends,
a new era is being born.

>)

<™.
Y

 

DIPO

At the end of the radio program
the orchestra swung into a rhy
'thmie fox trot to really start the

dance rolling. If only for the music
alone, it was well worth the admission price and those Dalhousians

the opportunity to go certainly did
not play fair with themselves.

To Ken Jones and his hard working committee goes full credit for
a truly remarkable demonstration
of what Dal can do when she actually decides to do a thing. The picture in the gymnasium on Friday
afternoon was a sight for sore eyes.
Those who have shown sceptisism
about the ability to gain the cooperation of the Student Body in any
campus enterprise received a pleasant surprise. No fewer than forty
Co-eds had gathered to lend their
aid in preparing the food for the
evening and there was male help
galore for the Decorations Committee. |

One of the highlights of the |
Dance itself turned out to be the
“Bank Hour” in which just about
everyone managed to win something rr
or other even if only a case of salt
codfish or a half ton of coal.
Webster MacDonald, in his capacity
of President of the Student Council
officiated at this event and with his

 

natural tendency toward humor.
added greatly to the spirit of the
enterprise.

Over six hundred dollars was collected for the Red Cross and although more was expected, the low
percentage of student attendance
kept the figure down. This large
profit was made possible only
through the wholehearted cooperation extended to the students by the
merchants of the city who gave
generously of both food and goods.
The Committee also wishes to acknowledge the work of Peter Whalley, whose caricatures of various
personalities prominent in today’s
political world were greatly admired.

»)

The Dalhousie Man (or Woman) of the Year on the Campus
17?%% were undecided, and, topping the list of Man of the Year at 9%
each of the votes, are three personalities: Prokov the conspirator, Prof.

C. L. Bennet, and Bob “Dipo”’ McCleave.

Prof. Bennet got his votes from

a backwash out of English 2. The other leaders were given votes in

attempts te be funny.

Anita Reid, Barbara White,

Others having votes were Donald Kirkpatrick,
Major
ster Macdonald, Lieut. Jack Ross,

Hogan,
Bob Mussett,

Colin Smith, Web“Dooley” MacIntosh,

Bruce Campbell for his part in the post-Grad election, and Graham

Mason.

There was also a vote to some animal named “Moose”.

Dalhousie’s Favorite Comic?

Li’l Abner came out on top with an even 50% of the votes; “Blondie”
came next with with 16%, and the rest tied at last place. These included
Allie Oop, Mickey Mouse, None, Poyeye, Superman, Donald Duck, Bob
McCleave (darn the fiend who cast that vote) and Dick Tracey.

What Should Canadians Remember, If Americans
Remember Pearl Harbour?

20% answered Hong Kong, 10% Dunkirk, and the rest for the most
part were peaceable. The answers included: Mind their own business, the
War, Pearl Harbour, Exams, “Remember that the Americans aren’t doing such a wonderful job of winning the war”, Keep their mouth shut,
Be prepared, Mackenzie King, Try to forget, the Desert, ‘Damn the tor
be Pearl Harbour”,

\ VV

pedoes, Full speed ahead”, the Plebiscite, “That Halifax Harbour could
William Lyon Mackenzie the Great Liberator,

TPTILS

$. | a

i” xt
¥
 
  
  
 
 
    

t College Pape

assumed that they

+ in America”
AZETTE are those of
represent the opinion «

   

   
  
  
   
  
   
    
   
 

  

  

~ - =  B-8576

4 tditor: A. S. FORSYTH - eV aeky Memal 0 Soe S-2936

_ Sports Editor: AL MACLEOD i laf acl Nan Patel byte BBE TG

_ . Features Editor: JOHN TASMAN - - -— - © S-2597

_ + Literary Editor: LOUISE BISHOP - - - - . -  B-9746

- @.U.P. and Exchange: DON BLACK - - - - _ B-5048

| Proof Editor: DAVID COLDWELL- - - - -  B-8576

_. Laison Editor: WALLACE OGILVIE - - - -  B-6568

~ @ireulation Manager: BOB McCLEAVE - - - ~- __ B-8576
___._ Business Manager: WEBSTER MACDONALD she i) BOs
|.’ Staff Photographer: DON OLAND - - - -  -_ B-9811

eM:

EDITORIA
(Continued from page one)

- soil, in

  

" €reasing number are men from this Dominion.
ure they are young,

:

  

i
t

j
a i
on

&
‘ } fel’ b),
feet ‘si
hg rs
Neth.
7

ae

  
 

ea |: RRC legislation which operates successfully in war-time is
that concerned with prisoners of war. They have ri ghts, and
it is in the interest of the governments concerned to maintain
them, for the process is reciprocal. The Canadian and German
_\ governments, for example, are studiously careful to observe
_ @onditions in prison camps, if only for the sake of their own
men in enemy hands.
ame Working closely with the larger organization of the War
_ Prisoners’ Aid of the Y.M.C.A., the European Student Relief
Fund (1.8.8. and its companion organizations, as outlined
_ above), is able to reach many grouns of students in Germany,
in Britain, in Canada, and elsewhere, supplying them with the
_ books they need, or acting for university committees in various
countries. One French student said: “Send us big books, we
have tried to read them carefully at the rate of a page a day!”
‘There is no doubt as to the quality of the work done, but the
_ area is sadly limited because of the endless stream of prisoners.
_. Not all students in internment are prisoners of war. In
_ Switzerland are thousands of Polish soldiers interned, among
whom are several hundred students. Swiss universities have
_ ‘come to their rescue through the channels of this co-operative
student work. The only Polish students in the world studyine
| together in their own language are in Switzerland! Think of
_ what that means for Poland some day. In Canada there are
____ still several hundred university men from Europe in intern_ Ment camps. They were refugees from Germany and the oc_ cupied countries, who had the misfortune to be put under pre_ €autionary arrest in Britain in the critical summer of 1940.
_ Most of them are violently against the present regime in Ger‘Many; many of them have suffered at its hands. Here again
| help has come to them from this fund. Many younger ones
have been enabled to take the McGill University Matriculation

_ tinue valuable advanced studies. One of the “Camp Schoolmasters” wrote: “The only group which has kept any kind of
' inner stability are those we have put to work, and to hard
\ . Bis, r hag r
ele re Not all refugees are interned in such good physical condi| tions. Still in unoccupied France, Spain, and North Africa, are
We hundreds of desperately unfortunate men and women who
| _ call themselves students. They are Spaniards and Poles, Czechs
| ~ and Germans—men and women whose race or opinions made
| them obnoxious to the powers that be. Only those who have
|  éonsiderable character have survived the pressure of these
| years. Among them are some of the ablest young European
minds. Huddled in enormous, ill-equipped refugee camps, or in
|  garrets in university cities, many have been found and aided
if: mm their magnificent struggle to continue their studies.
| Not all the students who need help are European! In
China there has been taking place one of the most amazine
achievements in history. Bombed and blasted out of their uni_ versities in the coastal cities, Chinese students and professors
have made a great trek back hundreds of miles into the vast
interior of China. There in mountain fastnesses, in disused
temples, in mud huts outside city walls the university life of
China is carried on. Starvation and disease have pursued
them; books have been lost and equipment destroyed. Still in
the fall of 1941 there were more students of university standing
in China than before the Japanese invasion. This is one of the
main ways in which China is waging, and winning, its heroic
_.» Struggle. The national life is being built up by skilled men and
| women at the same time as the enemy is being countered in the
‘field.
| Here, again, students from North America and Europe
have for years been sending the money which, with Chinese
Peet grants, has made this great achievement possible.

he Chinese are in the front line today. and this is one of the

       
 

Pint

D

/
oS

ey:
sie :
ey!

it
re
cA
ae
vi

de
ma 5

3 | Four Year Advanced Courses ir. Classies, Mathematics,
a main ways in which those who make common cause with them I, now twenty years old, | That fifty years might add; the girls Modern Languages and History.
| ean help them. Sitting in front of the window; and boys ;
a There remains a problem which often vexes those who are) The bench is hard That might have clustered round’ us oe ee of recognized standing, leading to degrees
| anxious to help in this work. Will the money reach the right| Beside me— in our age, of M.A., M.Sc.
|  people—will it not be misused? There is no case in which | (She says her father beats her} To whom would pass our earthly | Courses—preparatory to Professional Faculties.
_ money has not yet met the purposes for which it has, been The grim picture with high walls heritage Course in Public Administration.
raised, or sent. Strict government control assures that it will! towers over all Of love—my love, these days are| Many sated a
“not pass into the hands of the enemy. Reciprocal agreements] (t¢ you could see the marks on her| short. | ay The Chee PS. On entrance and through
enable it to be used with absolute certainty in the most bene-| body) ae pps Je Ks " ney
Tih ble 2 . — 6.5, * ° e cou nol choose otherwtse. x = i
ficial PRY: Up to date oy the: last ae apes rte Me pat ;| Our single life that sometime w wld | The Professional Faculties
in Canada, though credited bv J.S.S. to the total enterprise, h»s | Salmon sandwiches are good for thé g etime wo
ae PPI: SY . ‘8 have been at : ap .
not reached the amount which had to be spent in Canada. Inj; soul, ; ; | Law, Medicine, Dentistry, enjoy an unexcelled reputation.
_ this way any loss in exchange has been avoided. Chicken bones passed to all, i never be. That part which we ere i
ie te et eal os es ; Peni hi lave seen ; .
Br 7." 4 "16, is by the preservation of the liberties of others that But between the chicken bone and Pi: see ed / PND, Inclusive Fees: in the B.A. course, average about $160 a year.
_--—swe are most actively engaged in the maintenance of our own, the lip ae ee Se OMe | in the B.Se, course, about $190 a year.
' wrote a group of British students shortly after Dunkirk. These | The hand is thrust down, loves
_ liberties we fight for with arms can be lost by selfish indiffer-| It rattles on the ground— Will thrill to hear in spring the coo Residence
ie ence, On the other hand, this great work bv students for stu-! Alas poor chicken bone. sine doves, eo Shirreff Hall, residence for women.
| dents is one of the most signal evidences of the character and | nd not once think of our rich Carefully supervised residential faculties for men.
intentions of those people who believe in liberty. As such it is Seap a +o remun apenys | . sackiice. MONA REILLY
mous—Ed. note). ;

Ua ik, *

, 8,
i Pi |e
ay

incalculable influence

hei)
ie is,

in the affairs of man today.

ow A

ie if

  

 

   

    
  

 

huts and castles, all of them in alien lands. These are
‘barbed-wire legion” or “soldiers out of luck”, and an inIn large measier and thousands belong to the student class.
| ‘The one useful thing they can do, if they are not to lose their
_ morale, and their intelligence, is to study, and with universal
enthusiasm this is the course they adopt. But a soldier carries
_ no books in his pack; he has none of the tools of the academic
Pade on his person. For these he must depend on people oute the camp who will patiently seek to meet his essential
requests. Happily this is possible. The only piece of interna
 
      
       
    
   
   
   
   
   
   
      
    
 
       
      
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
   
   
   
   
   
 
   

exams; many older men have been given the material to con-!

}
i
:

    
 

  
  
    
        
     
   
  
  
 
   
  
   
   
  
       
   
 

    

  

Py

  
 
 
     

ER

« LITERARY

= “SS ~~ “SS >"> “~

= =

Nightmare

Arlene and I were skipping a history class because we had some
shopping to do. We go to Barrington Street early in the afternoon—
on a belt line tram. I remember
that especially because I recognized
the conductor. He was the man who| right over on top of us! We jumpwas on that car the last time I skip-| ed to the ditch and fell right down
ped a class to go shopping. He made | flat beside a lamp post with a white
me feel guilty. | band on it. Then we saw that

We bought some lisle stockings! 9S?! sving to help us, so we got
and a couple of boxes of powder and | oe ae fast as we could up

; ave | wats
ke tees es | ee fetes tow long (tok
Ha tan ene thd choie except | building to fall. We heard it crash
that it Was petty vulgar and the| int the street Just when we wer
ie f eee Be Pe other thing, that was the first big

: ; noise I heard outside of the roar of
smutty. The reason I can’t remember more is that I was worried. iP ae
remembered right after the “Donald | got a Pa, Ws
Duck” that I had to go down to) ; i .
Birks and get a birthday present yi soit hed eat se bas
for my Dad. How I ever managed i oe ip uy Er bs Ca res he
to forget it until then I don’t know. coe ip Tm ges b eo * as

As soon as we got out of the show | yy es ae prin. badly Pekies d
I told Arlene that She just had to! when a rafter sort of slithered down
come down to Birk’s with me to get over it.
the present for Dad and we a remember some of the C.O/E.C.
get supper, anywhere after that. | boys were working at first sid and!
She didn’t want to go but of course | they picked up Arlene and me and
she did. It didn’t take long to walk | sent us back to the Hall. I don’t
down and I fownd the leather pic- | know much about the trip back beture frame [ waited almost as soon cause I must have fainted.
as we started lowking for things. You should have heard Arlene
The clerk wrapped: tt up and we paid.| when I told her about ff all, 1 was
her and came out. . | Werried because that’s the first

{ don’t like Barrington Street: any | hightmare I’ve had’ for ever so long
more. It is always dirty and wet in.) and asually I only have them when |
the wintertime and there are: too | ve been sick. Well). she certainly
many soldiers and sailors making! tolW me off. She said’ she kwew perremarks about the girls that walk fertly well I'd suffer for it when
by. I never mind the airmen because | she sw me drinking so much black

coffee and eating so maty’ of those
» UN=/| cheese and pickle biscuits.

they don’t make saucy remarks:
And I never mind the officers
less they’re drunk, because they are) A\vlene’s a great one to explain
like the airmen. The funny thing why you dream what you’ do. She
about Harrington Street last night| told’ me it wasn’t any wonder I
was that there wern’t any service | dreamed about hundreds of airmen hanging around. Only a few | planes’ after bemmg so silly about
of them were on the street and they | collecting them for the last two
were all walking right along mind: | years: And’ she said it wasn’t’ any
ing their own business. I wondered | wondéy we both got hurt because
about it then. she’s’ stiff as a poker from last
Another thing I wondered about | night’s: skiing—and so am I. She
was the planes that were flying | says being: stiff and sore will always
over. There were hundreds of them) make: yow dream you've been hurt.
and they were way up high. | was, Well), anyway;. ’m glad I don’t
looking: up at them when I noticed | have: dreams’ like that every night.
it. I mean the whole tops of all the| Isn't it funny: how you remember so
buildings were shaking. I thought) many silly little deatils when you’re
at first it was just the looking up, dreaming?
and the sound of the planes that’ MONA R.
were making me see things. Andi (Any resemblance to any Freshette
then Arlene said, “Here it comes!” | living in the: Hall or elsewhere is
It’s furmy I didn’t notice it at the' purely coincidental._Ed. Note).

time, that she said it in such a queer
voice.

It didn’t take me any time at all
to see what she meant. I can’t remember just which one of those
buildings it was. but it was falling

 
 
 

   
 
   
     

    
    
  
  

   
     
 
  
   

“The purest form
in which tobacco
can be smoked.’

        
    
     
      

      
     
 
  
   

 
 
 
  
      
   
       
   

  
    

  

 

 

   

 Faders Drug Stores

135 HOLLIS STREET
29 COBURG ROAD

|
| HALIFAX

—————

    

 

     
 

| MacLeod - Balcom

LIMITED
C)
DRUGGISTS

Headquarters for Students
Requirements

       
  

Nova Scotia

a

 
 

 

!

|

ASK FOR

DONOVAN’S
BEVERAGES

at DAL CANTEEN.
46 Granville St. Halifax, N. S.|

O

HALIFAX - SHEET HARBOUR
KENTVILLE, N. S.

 

 

 

 
    
   
  
 

_ FARMERS?
CHOCOLATE MILK

Is Stimulating .. . It Peps: You Up!

“TASTE THE DIFFERENCE”

 
 
   

    

THE GENESIS OF
_ THE DIAMOND

Science estimates that
the diamonds of South
Africa were formed
approximately sixty
milliom years ago.
Truly they have waited
a long time for man to
discover and fashion
them to bring out their
brilliant beauty.
Henry Birks & Sons

LIMITED

Registered Jewellers,
American Gem Society

Barrington St. - Halifax, N.S.

WELCOME

 
    

TO

 
   
    

DALHOUSIE

 
 

SUNLIGHT ON GREEN LEAVES! SOLDIER'S FAREWELL
, |My darling, I must leave you now.
Photosynthesis Ten little days: we’ve had to call
our own),
| Ten twenty-fours; of hours we have
known
We two have
earthly bliss
That can be: found between a love’s
first’ kiss
And that last: partine to which all
loves: bow:.

 
 

 

 
 

C

Leaves: and the bold sun’s magic
tingeing,

And green becomes a living thing

An artist cannot eatch:

But there it is for us—

A. light, a loveliness

That shall not pass into nothingness.

Such beauty as Keats saw—

A bower quiet for us.

It cannot change.

And yet—when heads are bowed,

Hearts heavy with life’s sorrows

And fate’s errant wantonings,

That very beauty makes our grief

More poignant. The deepest blue of sky and green
And eyes spill tears of seas

To see the sunlight glisten on green Most thrilling songs of birds along
leaves, the breeze,

All hyper-tensified
song’.

 
     
 

filled with every

BLAKELEY’S

43 Spring Garden Road

    
 

|
|

 
 

 

 
 

 
  
 

These days of my last leave are long

Since im the limits of the ten are
bound’

The sweetest’ moments
heart have found,

that my

Dalhousie Gnibersity

Halifax, Nova Scotia

Maintains a High Standard of Scholarship.
Includes all the principal Faculties of a University.
Largest Staff, Libraries, Laboratories in Eastern Canada.

      

D. Mack...

   

 

by your love

   

Arts and Science Faculty

Degrees: B.A., B.Sc., B. Com., B. Mus., Phm. B.
Diplomas: Music, Engineering, Pharmacy, Education.

   

And yet those days are short, So
short,

When my mind strays to think- om
al] the joys

PER THE GHOST OF
WALT WHITMAN

!

 
       
    

    
     

 

 
     
   
 

   

 

  
  

  

 

 

       
     
 

 

    

    
¥ Po es,

we
ny

* eT ¥

tS

esha
%

 
   

Wee aa

     
 
   
  
  
   
 

   
 

i oi re
a rr ote ‘
4 -_ 4 © J ‘ . if : ri t ; ean , “i we ie
ye ered) ae
oe: bee +. f f i 4 j ¢ ¢ if r 4 A

fe
ie os ek A be ———

     

Naugler’s
Orchestra

O

 
 
  

     
  

 

 
 

' AEN TOR | Dear Cluntie Ebfie:

 
 

Pes ae I am simply overwhelmed, my dears, by the volume of letters you

 
     
   
   

are sending me.. I had no idea that there could be so much to bother An ermine coat,

  
 

     
 
  
 
 

  
 
   
   
  

     

       
 

  
    
    
    
     
 

 
 
  

 

    

      

      
     

         
 
  
   

   
  

  
  

   
  

 
           
 
    
       
 
 

       
       
    
 

    

        
 

    
  

  
   
   

     
    

     

     
    
 
 

      
   
   
    

   
  

 

_ reverse chronological order. This fact has never been discovered by the
_ instructor, who continues to lecture in that order, in spite of everything,
_ though most students eventually discover the mistake themselves, and

 

  

 

   
  
    
   
  
    

The New

CASINO

_ make due allowances. The third important phase of English 2 is a te f ie e ie
is thorough study of another popular author, Renais Sance, who wrote in » urus ayne rom angoon «<¢

Capitol

(

  

/ We h ve discussed at length the various Intriguing Courses offered | YOur little heads about, but i welcome your confidences, and you can be A foreign car, 38 SHORE ROAD
by the University, and examined the many benefits to be derived from assured that I shall try to give Byers One. seme solace or advice. I must - Perret oe Call H-6032
hesé, as considerations affecting the future selection of classes. There ask you to be patient, if your letter is not answered immediately, but you A built-in bar,
i , however, yet another group which should be Exactingly Examined for will understand how busy your Auntie is. My object is to help all you A ROA EOS flat,
ie eaeie keadon —~the various Inevitable Courses ‘which . the University | P00r bewildered people with the minimum of grief, and though I try to And I'll tell you, sir,
‘expects everyone to take. The Official Calendar gives the Frosh little or| b€ 88 accurate as possible, we all make mistakes sometimes. She does it all on |
ae ~no choice in the matter of selecting such classes as Mathematics, English, ; PR Thirty per.
> Chemistry, etc., and it is an Unvarying rule. that everyone must take j fvmust ap ologize, when, ae A nae take Made last week 0 answering 7 ne oer - Beer
@& them, sooner or later. In this way, then, these classes lose much of their | seria tose Page ee ae een pete Pri Meare aot Rete ve
_ fascination and appeal, which is easily explained by the remarkable Psy- to have me use her Halifax name: Lynn M., instead of her hometown 25 aby shen Saturday, Monday, Tuesda
eh, a Relea i sels Y : : : s i , ’ rj ¥ In ’rithmetic. . ‘ y
oe, _ chological Statement that nobody likes to do anything, especially if they name, Rosie. I’m awfully sorry, my dear, but I’m sure you will under : 7
y a have to. Let us, then, examine these Inevitable Courses, offering some stand. eel a Gateway. MR ction rid aR
_ modicum of solace to those who face the prospect of taking them in the ; earn cite * * + : °
‘, | Sana future, We have a sweet letter here from a Miss Jean C., who wishes to know b ) :
ee re Mi .. | if her fellow Shirruffian, Dot R. was selling tickets to the Red Cross Ball Man: “What’s the matter with Wednes. Thurs. Fri.
—%  ——_~—s Of these Inevitable Courses, the most Interesting and Intellectual is, , ye || these eggs 2”
hk, (J of leeapie Wait. SOE aida tha, Gest branch io aalish 1. which, like | °F just looking for a date. It touches me to see such devotion between be Sag . “THE DEVIL BAT”
ae a tae: ; ; are a ; friends, but I should think the present condition at the Hall should answer aitress: “I dunno. I just laid “HOLD THAT WOMAN”
_ Physics, is divided into two sections. To prevent confusion, however, tj ed the table.” :
' these are both deSignated as English 1, and are essentially the same ei te He ae La ae |
Ses t i pron ae ' a : : ; , :
iy aie \toabigiitacatbniny Wee, si ie nee cor panty Rovormaes OF Physics, sitive I have a letter here from a poor neglected chickadee in New Glasgow, |
| +these who delay their departure into more advanced work are forced to ; i a y ; :
ia) in 3 i 4 . ; one Miss M. Cameron. She writes: “Dear Auntie Effie; I am desperately| Jim—I couldn’t sleep at all last
_~—s pursue the same course twice. There is some slight consolation, however, | . ‘ ; : O R Pp HH E U S
es: DEA aa Pak tent Vth links: two. inattactots: Giourh. thé benefit of this is in love with a young Medical student, who has deserted me for a White | night.
i “ae x oe a +) ee hussy. He used to visit me every weekend, and we spent many heavenly} Betty—What, insomnia?
, i EM ma ate a Spneieg ti eehexita’ tlie tdchye bdvaninwes to\be derived nites at H.M.S. Hihell while he waited for the ‘Flyer’.” My dear child,| Jim—No, the shade was up. Mon., Tues., Wednes.
/ English 1, and since it is but preliminary to English 2, a mere the man is obviously a Cad. However, I don’t believe it will last long,| Betty—-Why didn’t you pull it “Blue, White and Perfect”
Me ec ide sibs shite Waite. (ia chiek jntaroat Hes in the Pact that it | 25 Miss White is now interested in a stage production, and especially |,down? “Honolulu Lu”
a ervatty sii Beet aie oy teltin, lenbeees how aa) Oldenclish, [2° member of the cast. If you think he’s worth it, you can probably Jim—I couldn’t reach across the ®
tae) 8 Berean : "| have him back soon, but don’t let it get you down. street.
_--—séspromulgated by an obscure Writer, known as G. Chaucer, who wrote the . Leche art og
Bi; Cadbury Tails, and other droll stories. These were all copied from Boc T haved dovely letter from a'Lieut Hen.R” who ie worrying about st Thurs., Fri., Satur.
eachio, dealing with Priorities, and other religious matters. The benefit : ie | , ae Wes tiow § 4 4
| Aes ae ] BR Lay ; who took ‘Rabbit’ M. to the Red Cross Ball. You have my sympathies, are FOU: DEAD MAN’S SHOES”
_ of studying this is that you quickly learn to distinguish Oldenglish. from ; sr ‘
ents, We ska my, dear boy, for she could have at least gone with a U. S. Officer, rather| She—I couldn’t be better. “The Man From Cheyenne”
a, English, at a glance, and never yet them confused. Banh tad thal He—tLike Hell.
" The chief function of any class in English is to train you to write SERN ae te aie tae
? nate. English is wholly concerned with Theme Sit and since the I refuse to acknowledge any letters about the Phi Chi Formal, as all | I bought my girl some garters
pi, eeckniqne of doing this has been expounded previously; : e hia! eee. you naughty, naughty people were inebriated, except some late arrivals.| At Woolworth’s five and ten, OxFORD
a ene benefits to be derived from your piers. The first i t er weil mi One sober exception was Mr. Dorden Timmins, who wants to know what She gave them to her mother D
oy the English Department to support worthy students, whose duty is to) yics M. MacK. (ex ’48) meant by the remark “How do people who aren’t| ‘That’s the last I’ll see of them. Fri., Satur.
Ba. read Themes, thus justifying the writing of them. The second benefit is! married get undressed at nite.’ These intimate details will have to wait, * + * Geo Formby ‘Come on George’
-™ mie on. of 20 ie Pi ‘oelers re ao ree to je ati my dear, until you get a little older. Gold-digger’s ambition: Look neat Two Latins ed Manhattan”
_ in the following year, by changing the D’s to B’s, and erasing the Read- | SCC DL hae sere
ets’ comments. Theme writing, then, is invaluable training, and should | / ! Monday, Tuesday
4, ‘be practised on every possible occasien. The second branch of English is - ee Te Oe ot re oe ny Tat ane ae a [ can help UT aa “Week-End in Havana”
“English 2. Here again you must write Themes. This is due to the fact | * ON eT ee ee ee te one, BO ; Among . Living
that many, on entering College, clude English 1, and might otherwise Your Affectionate Phonetics Wednéeday. Th
re | never learn how to write Themes at all. Coupled with English 2 Themes 7 _ Thoughts of the bride walking “Hold Say hs, ursday 4
aoe yam some obscure way are two authors—Milton and Shakespeare—which, OG AH { bo | oe into church: " “Great a ee
NE, f ‘due to some early typographical errors in an early.Calendar, are given in Me ee a) eee “Aisle, altar, hymn.”

 

 

 

 

 

a doggerel French, though he is supposed to have been born in Italy. a era be
"___—His works are of utmost importance, since there is always a question on Th toade 2 zn hl iy BUNS bee ee thee | ene e eas |
Miiane Bhatish: exam shout him. pisode | o epigrams our shields adorn: “EAC g§
Bee Remember Pearl | ialize i iti ” th x
Bates, English, then, though Inevitable, is one of the more delightful courses nn pci rina on | oe SP ore MEEEEA CORD, 49 * hy
r a _ offered by the University, and even Engineers have been known to benefit S bia abla + Teer pprode arom Ee P ARALLEI eR sar
BU eds stats Babb iaed G5, ather 'o tive carce had some semblance of room and made boldly off in the STARTING a
bi ; years. Nats de ae ae : order been restored to the campus direction of the Haul, arts and write JANUARY 31st
‘ar ne aR a a hr when a new disorder broke up. | Seances crystallizing upon him as he Lawrence Olivier ;
Ta | Despite the protestations of Miss| went, trampling on the way upon| Leslie Howard * 3
‘ he ARE bd Heavenly Ignatz Schmidt had brok- the prostrate body of John Fastman, Raymond Massey
aa | en into the Prexy’s office. “Y ou still stuck in the grimy ooze and ‘ “PAR
ah 1 PREXY in PROKOV’s clothing”, she) The parade hauled up, in the Haul * IS
oe, 3) screamed, “you have usurped my woods, for as they rounded the 99 |
ia SS (eet | SS right. I am PROKOV”. corner a stranger still sight awaited Tuesday - Wednes. - Thurs. CALLING
them. The Haul itself had disapArts and sean l P 6 i h an I
SH cocoa] Se eee) i ocd ap hearst geal ni eo peared. ‘Where once had lived seores e Man Who ae Ins ide Story of
b ie | PROKOV) while classical allusions|°) D°autiful pettables was now a) | Caneto Dinner” oday’s Headlines)
SOME os . oy ; sks: 4 | silent waste.
| Why did “Kissy” Minimus arrive is it just due to the efforts of Prof.| darted like asps from the mouth of |

 

the irate Prexy (or PROKOV).’ In | 2
the unequal combat it was obvious | How will this be solved? Or are | Ann Sheridan
who would win out. we at the end of our tether?

, ie late at the Red Cross Dance? Did| Bennet, and the Anzac Club?

eh at ; 4 . 7
eRe she change her mind, or did her *

1 ir conscience bother her? For further| Why was McGinty so anxious to

  

  

RANDOLPH SCOTT

 
 

 

: “ |
| shouting for recognition. Bette Davis | BASIL RATHBONE
|

   

 

    
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
   
 
 

 

 

a aa details, see Fred’ Russell. go hunting Sunday? Did he want to Sate
i eee * #' # find out if there were ‘bears’ in them | Suddenly, however, the dull wail- |
Va ems Mn thee gid, Wear saneee ie aicpda ? ing of sirens could be heard, while |
Johnny Fraser. Has Anita slacken- Pitan) te ade) tromentarily | melteed ‘the |

tedium of King Karl’s retreat. T he |
thuds proved to be nothing more |
than falling arts and seances, lured |
by the fatal presence of Dun Kirk |
Petquick. Props were collapsing |
right and left and dissolving into |
stooges who were dumped by Major
Hokum into a vat of a steaming |

\ Was ed the reins, or has he got the bitby!} We were wondering how Tasman
the horns. Watch for further devel-| got along with the sale of ‘Military
 opements Friday nite. Secrets’ at the dance, and where
ee! 2 * & ‘Yank’ and ‘Moose’ went afterwards.
"What happened to Mike? Although| Don’s hospitality knows no bounds

things appeared convivial at the Red|though both looked somewhat worse
ae

| Cross affair, we understand that the | for wear.

  
    
   
      
  
   
 
   
 
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
   
    
   
 
 
 
  

_ Bo) Anzacs’ have more time on their on (Att : fluid known as C.B.C. (or C.P.R.)
_ hands. if, Don Kirkpatrick is going to need/from which they emerged as with. §§§§ §|§ (Wee Ace oe
eae : re the advice of our Aurt Effie, from| ered khaki bundles, upon the pro
i qg The Hall phone is generally busy|all we can understand. ‘Life is so

‘Naas every nite around 11. Doesn’t Johnny | sweet, and yet so eruel’, eh, Don.
trust our ‘Bob’, or can it be the real . * 3%

ae

jecting parts of which girls from
the Haul were sticking mittens and
socks as the occasion seemed to

 

hing this time? Dunsmore just can’t seem to get| warrant, |
Bs | Bi) away from Moncton, and Ruth look- Upon the stage the benign pres- | oe Li | \
V3. The Black-out Sunday . caused|ed none the worse for a year away | ence of Rufus Rayne himself seem- | AAW’ Sa es Sia Sa

ih quite a bit of excitement at the| from the joint. What can all this be
fall. Lynn wishes to thank the) leading up to. |

Civie authorities for the perfect tim- Ps

. The clock stopping for half} Doug Robinson didn’t take long

our was very convenient, too, we|to recover, and from all indications
t and, | he landed on his feet with a ven
ed to indicate that a rehearsal was
in order. The pinched faces of the
arts and seances proved conclusively
that this was none other than the.
Glum Club, Led by Elk’ McLoud,
upon whom were crawling some

cbt eye
*  .Go-refreshed

ne oc Denn emcee eee eee eee ee NN Se a

ee 2%, geance, and a nifty blonde number.| strange small creatures (known as Raise a frosty bottle of “Coca-Cola” fo your lips and drink:
wondering if there can be| Some gals don’t know when they’re| Muses), they burst forth into a ‘ ii .
in the fact that our old | well off. | chorus: Instantly its clean, exciting taste brings you refreshment
? Miller won the Cook- wh at eaveleet whan MeTunnetled | plus. And quality —the quality of genuine goodness ...the
- How about that, Man: “Do you know, honey, if I states, Attia quality of ‘'Coca-Cola’’—the real thing.
BA Thy. > had to do all over again who I’d| We want to have the football aM a
marty 2°00) wes gates. soa THE COCA-COLA COMPANY OF CANADA, LIMITED . :
Wifey: “No, who?” We do not rise to see the morn;| incor RA x You trust its quality
Man: “You.” We hold all the fine arts in ‘se ,

Wifey: “Oh, no, you wouldn’t.” We do not live by codes outwor

: Te ’ i, t j
a . a. % ¥
— ai ; 7 we oak te ao © [ets +. sng a ; —~. bs
j : a a. — ; 1 ws
§ 2

   

s
+e
: . ng be quintet by
ae decision. Play
rte: astehter phenomme ting and air-tight defenictics in behalf of Dal nulified
2s efforts that the Navy could
and served notice to all and
t the Gold and Black this
. th? “people’s choice” to

he City. League.
by ‘Yank Forsythe and Ben
the Tigers jumped into an
and they were never
although threatened at times
er? Second, ea, by the

a Mike Sraith and Wil
ous
as

rated | to back court duties.

b ‘elected to open the game
rowing their reserves to the
, Who: proceeded to tear them

n no mean fashion. With
ading 15-2, Navy showed uneee signs of leaking at the

as to be almost uncanny,
es wed all efforts. by Navy to
f either their score or their
rale, and the first period ended
Dal on the long end of a 23-5

n ‘ism was thy inaccurate
t looked for a time as though

ns sucker shot rc, part
-effecti ve. Not to be outdone
n ib \ippobiben’ mutiny, our own
tley broke out ina scoring rash

In Interfac League

A Vesti of rampaging Engineers,
paced by young Malcolm Campbell,
of Halifax, hung a 25-8 beating on
an interfaculty entry from Kings,
in a basketball game played last
Thursday pricr to the senior game.
The T-Square squad used only five
men in the contest, while King’s had
nine men to draw from. Campbell
compiled almost half of the Engineer scores, registering twelve
points before the game ended. He
was followed by Vernon Graham,
with seven points, Clegg Hall with
four points and Don Matheson, with
two points. Don Moir was held
scoreless by the Kingsmen, but,he
played an excellent game in the
guard position.

“Hubey” Drillen led the King’s
attack, with two baskets to his
credit, with one basket each being
scored by Nowe and Vince Martin.
All in all, the King’s team was
scarcely a match for the boisterous
Engineers, who raced in from all
angles to make easy lay-up shots.
The Engineer win-tied them for first
place in the Interfaculty Basketball
league with the Law entry, who won
their game, by default, when the
Medicos failed to turn up.

The Lawyers expect to have the
services of Ken Jones, Sandy MacDonald, “Junior” LeMoine, Jack
Hutton, and others of the legal
breed. Further games of the Inter| Peacislty League will be held on
Thursday nights, immediately preceding the games of the Halifax
City League, in the Dal gym.

Get out and help your faculty!

Intermediate Cubs
Lose To Navy

When only four Dalhousie Cubs
turned up at the local “Y” for a
scheduled intermediate basketball
game with the Navy last Saturday
night, most people were prone to
blame it on too much Red Cross
Ball. But whatever the reason.
four men weren’t enough to come
even close to the tars that evening,
even when the middies “loaned” the
Cubs a man so that the collegians

‘| eould play at full strength.

Die The final score was 36-18, with

/ Be one-hand flip shots from the
_ keyhole and sensational set shots
Ny fro m farther out were a treat to behold. Offensively and defensively
e Ralston Raiders displayed a
of ball that was the answer

coach’s oa

wi McKenzie > 7; Dun
K 2; Porsvihe 12; Doig; McLeod
mi Smith 5; Wilson 13; Fraser.
_ Navy: Barbe; Arnotte; Geddes 5;
- Killem 5; Bates 9; Woodruf 2; Remee 2; Radcliffe.

‘ : ae
ythat Censnis when the male and
female clash on the athletic field
_ was demonstrated, in all its horror,
to the observers of a ground hockey
aes last fall. Not satisfied with
e carnage created on that occasion
with the mental and physical
a g which gneted to those who

it cannot be held on a football
1. Such. members of the student
y as have recently attended
ses report that the gridiron is
bound. The only other battlea (heen: is the ‘arena, or

‘be. a oho vs. eirls nee

g Thousie males blanch with
te me A tpctioty - en et

a i tr
m a rte Ayn,

re ; a‘;
Beye SF

the younger edition of the Bengals
on the wrong end of the tally. With
the whole team playing full time,
the Cubs found the going hard. At
half time they were ten points in
the ruck, and at games end aighteen
points in arrears. However, despite
the loss, the team played gallantly.
and went down trying. Any more
than that one cannot ask of any
man.

Johnny Fraser, although playing
in the guard position, was working
well with Dave Doig, to tally half
the Dal total between them.

Dal Cubs: Hicks, 2; Doig 5; Bauld
3; Fraser 4; Logosz 4.

autumn afternoon is still with them.
At the conclusion of the dreadful
massacre of tnat day, the strong
men of Dal, who were by then weak
with exhaustion, vowed a terrible
vow that never again would they
clash with weapon-bearing females.
All toa clearly do they recall the
viciousness of the feline attack,
when armed with sawed-off hockey
sticks the females bore down upon
them. The prospect of these same
women armed with full-fledged
hockey sticks is unnerving.

So any athletic contest between
Dal’s boys and girls must take place
where the latter will be unable to
use lethal weapons. The gym is the
only logical site for such another

epic struggle. Let basketball be the | |

sport.

The men of Dalhousie are convinced that they can win, provided
the women give them a handicap.
It has been suggested that if the
tigresses will play with both hands
tied behind their backs, the teams
will be evenly matched. And the
men will then have little fear of
foul play. They might even have a
good time.

NEXT WEEK THIS PAGE WILL

SPORT Ven

Lives of great men all remind us
As their pages c’er we turn,
That we’re apt to leave behind us
Letters that we ought to burn.
(Authorship Unknown)

The aiithor of this interesting bit of verse could never have
meant the letters that are received by the Dalhousie Gazette.
Not in years has the editorial desk been graced with a molten
missive from a disgruntled reader, and so it was something of
an occasion when we received two within the space of three
days. One of these communications we were able to publish
last week in this column. The other we fear is of too great a
length to print in these pages. But both of them we were
certainly glad to receive. The first was from A. Webster MacDonald, the President of the Students’ Council, in which he
explained what makes the Council wheels go round. In spite
of the derision it heaped upon our ill-composed and humble
rhymes, we were giad to hear from him. Let there be more

“explanations” of Council tactics in the future.

The other letter was from the Chairman of the Committee
on Basketball of the local Y.M.C.A., in which it was alleged
that the Gazette had imputed unsportsmanlike conduct to the
“Y” intermediate players in a write-up of a recent Y.M.C.A.—

Dalhousie basketball game. We hasten to deny that it was
ever the intention of a Gazette writer to even hint at charges
of such a nature. Indeed, we are great concerned that anyone
could ever consider the Gazette to have such an unclaritable
nature. And so, if apologies are required, we most certainly
apologize for the fact that any Gazette write-up could ever be
interpreted in a manner inconsistent with the way in which it
was intended. And while this letter tended slightly to deal in
personalities, nevertheless we turn the other cheek, and say we
were glad to get it. Because, if nothing else, it demonstrated
that at least one person reads the fourth page of the Gazette—
and for that we are grateful, if not overwhelmed with wonder
and amazement.

| % * ae

Last fall we noted that while the Dalhousie rugby Tigers
were staging their famous march to the championship of “the
City Football League, the intermediate rugby Cubs lost consistently. Indeed, it developed that every time the Cubs lost,
the Tigers won, and vice-versa. History seems to be repeating
itself now that the City Basketball League has swung into
operation. The intermediates have been singularly unfortunate
in their appearances to date, having played “four and lost four.
The senior Tigers, on the other hand, have played fourand won
four, two exhibition games, and two league games. How long
will it last?

We note that the Tiger nde squad is this year a potent
threat to the other teams in the College Service League. The

‘team has been greatly strengthened since last year, and has

begun to show lots of form in practice sessions. In fact, if any
student can find the time to visit the Arena Rink at the times
when Dal games are scheduled, he will be rewarded with a fast,

Advance shipments of
C. C. M. Skating Outfits
have now arrived at

PHINNEYS

Sporting Goods Department
Why not come in and select
your outfit now .

WP e

456 Barrington Street

peer NURSERIES

Y.M.C.A. Building — B-7530
381 Barrington Street

31 Spring Garden Rd. — B-6440

We Specialize in CORSAGES
and All Kinds of Design Work

THE

The NATIONAL FISH CO.
LIMITED

FRESH FISH SPECIALISTS
HALIFAX - NOVA SCOTIA

FOLLOW THE REST OF
THE BOYS
FOR YOUR FOOTWEAR

TO
SHANE’S SHOE STORE
Special Discount to Students
397 BARRINGTON ST. B9144

RIDING HORSES

FOR HIRE

AT

BOWER RIDING STABLES

Located Next to Point Pleasant Park

Excellent Bridle Paths—No Escort required

For Appointments Phone TOM MURPHY, Stable Master

B-7062

STUDENTS!

STABLES ON BOWER ROAD

MAKE GORDON B. ISNOR’S
YOUR HEADQUARTERS FOR

SUITS

OVERCOATS

SHOES

FURNISHINGS

—and save on every purchase by taking

advantage of our
Discount at...

Special Students’

GORDON B. ISNOR’S

69 Gottingen Street — Halifax, N. S.

Compliments of

bruising show.
%

ate ate
ad —

Don’t look now, but it begins to appear as though 1941-42

will stand out in Dal’s history as a banner year in sport.

It'd

be a shame to have to admit that you hadn’t seen a bit of it.

wouldn’t it?

But then, if you’re just an old stick-in-the-mud.

you er wouldn’t realize that anything outstanding had

happened .

Crescents 5-1

Although losing their first en-|
counter of the season, Dal’s hockey |
squad of 1942 made a favorable impression on the railbirds present.

Not wishing to take on any soft
touches Coach Ralston arranged a
game with Halifax’s senior civilian
entry in the City League.

When the smoke of battle cleared
Cresents knew they
hockey game and had to work for |
their 5-1 victory. They had been
expected to walk off the ice or more
accurately to skate off with at least
a ten goal margin.

Until the last ten minutes Dal
matched the more _ experienced |
seniors play with play and at times
had the upper hand im the proceedings.

Crescents used their weight to

great advantage and belted the in- |

coming Dal forwards with jarring
body checks.

This process tovk the steam out of
the Tigers’ attack and they began to

were in a

° left uncovered in front of the net
Tigers Sc To | and the inevitable happened, as it
always does.

Three goals sagged
| the netting within the space of ten
minutes and the game ended as be| forementioned.

Ken MacKenna played a steady
game in the nets and many a time
was left with nothing but the wide
open spaces in front of him.

The Dal defense landed and some
wicked body belts but a little more
attention to the puck would probably
| pay better dividends.

The line of MacKelvie, Lantz and
Vaughan was the pick of the Dal
forwards with their accurate passing and fast skating and were re| sponsible for Dal’s lone tally, Lantz
registering.
| Dal’s first line of Wilson, MacDonald and Fraser showed up well
and when their passing plays ac_ quire a little more polish will un| doubtedly line up to what is expected of them.

Dal opeus the vegular- season
Thursday, taking on the Navy in
what should prove a rousing encounter. So come and bring reinforcements in case they are needed.

)

fade badly. Crescent forwards were| They probably will be.

BE EDITED BY COLIN HENDER- ee
'SON ery ESQ. Watch. for ft, pel

we

You're missing a lot if you
haven't tried Philip Morris
Mixture, today's greatest
value in pipe tobacco.

In pouches, packages and !% Ib. tins.

:

S. Cunard and Co., Limited
HEAT MERCHANTS SINCE 1835
Hard Coal, Soft Coal, Coke, Fuel Oil
®

Halifax, N. S. Dartmouth, N. S.

Wonderful, i

8 easily separated cubes
of fine french-style chocolate
each filled with liquid golden

vanilla butter creme

 
