 

 

  

    

te ei

x

VARSITY VETS
VOLUNTEER

 

a

OLDEST STUDENT PUBLICATION

NOVEMBER, 15, 1946

EX-SERVICE STUDENTS SPAWN SPECIAL SERVICE

Harassed housewives shed your worries.

No longer need you be

bothered by diaper dampness, plugged plumbing, window washing, or
supper-shopping. The stalwart student vets of Dalhousie University
have once again shown initiative in the sponsoring of their latest

brainchild—the Odd-Jobs Agency.

I quote their latest ad:

PERSONAL SERVICES
Services by STUDENT Vets
and Their Wives

‘

Do you need—Your baby minded?
Your shopping done?

laundry picked up?

Your lawn raked? Your

We will supply a fourth for bridge, personal escort, part-time
chauffeur, reader for invalids, part-time tutor for children,

YOU NAME IT—WE Do IT!

We will NOT bootleg, cack a crib, murder your in-laws.
es FOR PROMPT, COURTEOUS AND CONFIDENTIAL
SERVICE

The germ of the idea was fertilized by an acute feeling of
hunger, due in no small part to
the government’s generous (7)
allowance of $80.00 a month for
vet and wife. The embryonic
stage was nursed along by a second-year Law student, formerly
of the West Novies, and ‘now, in
its post-natal stage, it has proved
a huge success.

The above has already brought
strange and unusual requests, indicating that the slogan, “YOU
NAME—WE DO IT,” has been
given a literal interpretation by
helpless housewives and frantic
families.

One frantic father-to-be phoned in begging for a mid-wife.
(Ed. note. His case was ably
handled.)

One slick chick, revenge permeeting her mind, desired an escort for a dance that was also to

(Continued on Page 8)

 

DRASTIC
MEASURES
_DEMANDED

This week’s topic: “Canada and
the U.S.S.R.”

Measures reaching far beyond
the grasp of private builders
were urged by the Dalhousie Citizens’ Forum Group at its Tuesday evening meeting this week,
when it discussed the question
“Can We Build More Houses—
Faster?” The chairman was J.
E; Millie. The housing emergency, the Forum declared, cannot effectively be met by private
enterprise—even before the war,
construction companies had no
been able to provide adequate
low-cost housing to meet the

(Continued on Page 8)

 

 

S.C. M. Plans

General Meet

The first of a series of speakers for the Students’ Christian
Movement has been announced
He will be Professor F. M. Page,
M. A., Associate Professor of
Psychology. Professor Page will
speak on ‘Personal Relations”’

This speech will be the initial
offering of the S. C. M. in connection with a Christian conference to be held at Dalhousie. It
is the aim of the conference to
try and aid students in finding out
what place Christianity and active
religion can have in their lives.

The program for the conference is almost complete and the
plans have been laid with special
consideration to the needs and interests of students. The University Christian Committee in Toronto has been contacted and the
conference is a direct result.

Professor Page should /be of
great interest to all the students
of the University and the choice
of such a man as the first speaker will give some implication of
the ideas and aims of the conference, "

Students interested will have an
opportunity -fdr\ Aliscussion and
private interviews with such

speakers as Professor Page which
will be definitely beneficial.
It is the hope of the committee
that the conference will
(Continued on Page 8)

be a

 

Get in Gear

In the cold grey mist of eventide, in the deep subcellar of Ye

Ancient and Honorable Arts building, all was a pregnant silence in

The Gazette Office.

Something—was about to hatch.

Here with

fiendish glee, and gleaming fangs, the minions of the Gambol com
mittee planned the ghastly fate of their fellow morons—(that is, those

who planned on going tc the Gambol).

This will definitely be the

“DO” of the year—So spake Ye Ole Bard.
More, mad, moronic, mysterious, Machiavelian, mirth will be in
flicted on said patrons than since Herman Goring wore a size 14 girdle.

So take warning all ye who have any semblance of intelligence,

don’t miss the best struggle of the year.

There will be spring filled

stretchers available for th victims of Pes Planus 3rd degree.
Don Warner’s mellow men gill provide lilting strains of Pan-like
music to which all covers will gleefully beat the boards into dust. Sans

Wine, Sans Locker, Sans End. y

So now, as the committee crawls twitchingly into their respective
cages, they look back with glassy orbs, and intone the ancient incantations of, ‘‘Alpha Cholera Swiverhip’’, or, Come to the Gazette Gambol.

 

 

 

Dal Students
Take Part

Among the outstanding artist
students featured in the second
concert of the Ladies’ Musical
Club series was a number of talented Dalhousie musicians. Members of the student body in attendance on Tuesday night, Nov.
12th, were gratified by the excellent performances rendered by
Terry Monaghan, whose artistic
interpretation of Saint-Seans’
“Mon Coeur s’oeuvre a ta. Voix”
drew resounding applause from
the audience; Frances Saulnier,
in her rendition of the “Rondo”
for violin by Kreisler; and vocal

artist Marjorie Coady, singing
Debussy’s “Air de Lia’, from
“L’enfant Prodigue’’.

Of additional interest to Dal
housie music lovers were the performances of two former students, Lorna Roome, violinist,
and Neal Van Allen, pianist. Miss
Roome delighted the audience
with her fine presentation of
Lalo’s “Symphonic Espagnole’’
and the familiar “Dancing Doll’,
(Continued on Page 8)

Kings Presents...

The King’s College Dramatic
Society has announced that it
will present three one-act plays
at the School for the Blind Aud19th.
The programme will open with
Noel Coward’s well-known comedy, “The Family Album.” This
will be followed by the more ser“Intruder”, by
Maeterlinck, and the final presentation of the evening will be
Stark Young’s “The Twilight
Saint.” These plays are under
the able direction of Prof. C. L.
directed
in Toronto,

itorium on Tuesday, Nov.

ious Maurice

Lambertson, who has
amateur theatricals
and the casts will include several
actors already well known on

Studley campus.

Due to the limited capacity of
the auditorium it is advisable to
purchase tickets well in advance.
These may be had from Phinney’s
the King’s office, and from many

of the King’s students. The
change of date should be noted
by all those already holding
tickets.

 

Introducing ....

The Senior Tigers

 

LEW BELL

REG McCULLOCH

ALEX FARQUHAR

JOHN PRIMROSE

JOHN MACKEIGAN

MACDONALD

BUGS MACKENZIE

 

DOUG MACDONALD

ee

VINCE MORRISSON

CYRIL MORGAN

HEC POTHIER

FOO GRANT BOB

— =

McQUINN

KERRY DUNPHY

 

Astpnag

dues
/

‘snd

 
   
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 

Editor-in-Chief

 

CRUMPLE.
COLLEGE
COLLAPSING

It all began several years ago.
Began, that is It. began when
somebody laid the first cornerstone. At Dullhousie, that is.

: a | TA ze iad of ae , oe td Pm MT] es 2 ae ry ( ¥
7 , 7 fae A A F .. ’ Ais rr, * cat UF . : 4 " f a
: r, 2 0 Pp ed at : ‘ pen ve fi cn Se e } ne “ 4 t) witha Agi if a i
7 ey 4 Na fy { es pn 7 5 i ees 2a i's ; " ey vn os ne ds 4 t x ’ ri a
. , % rf i‘ , : a fey
hae ic ?, i j ee J iene ale: vibe Nr , ; aah es 4 vs * a ren i r ee oe a
fe ‘ : aa ‘hn ‘ ; sy fos
: fee nied: a | oe Re aye Sakae pop Wee a, es ts aa bee era
, = aie fee eee a t 3 Pl eee sO 4 Lie deen + iy ee : } , n
a es f , ‘fs [Pot ei d oa ; < x etree A te f ,) : - le 7 a bh
ey Sie att EY A “J : any care Pah Mao ot ast wn per se AP Se eras we 16 4 : j seh :
apo re e a » re ae eee | ery abt AS 23 y ae ee De Vuk zy ‘ j ry >
: 4 sp! >I st ye a a c ay ee ia 7 x 7 :
Mea Ser soe hip Ns, PAR MP a rege UN), dies avy ee .
te reat aes | ae ty s Pie PP roe. va PAM NP) eS, : oA:
e Fee 7 {oo a .* ee ry ere! ; oP air pay e a : ‘
a a Deals Cy id , " Me CX Pia,
Weak Sun, ee : Ri ny :
pal ‘
: ae ae 3/ . . :
- _ THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE
= . F 4 ‘ p ii, . *
\ ; ‘
° anal RSTONES

 

 

AL LOMAS (3-4505) Anyhow, what happened is so.
, Features Sports The cornerstone was NOT arkJACK LUSHER DON HARRIS _itukturally and engineerikally perNews _ Ce-ed Ed. fect. That is, it was not without
LEW MILLER, P-3 JEAN BOWERS blemish. So.
Proofreader | Circulation All during the summer a
RALPH MacDONALD MARY FARQUHAR bunch of guys, Engineers, that is,
Office Mer. Photographer were surveying. Their surveys
SHE BILL OGILVIE DON MORRISON were. all wrong. Why is this,
Roi eatnesa’ Mi nager Cartoonist they mused. (Yes—dear  chil- i
a ge iene BOB TUCK dren—Engineers can muse. . .) Heat Merchants Since 1835”

_ CONTRIBUTORS AND REPORTERS THIS WEEK:

 
 
  
 
  
   
 
   
   
   
  
  
    
 
   
   
   
  

ee ae Duffy, bitty Schwartz, Windy O’Neil, Bob Tuck, Fran
e, Nancy Jones, Russ Hamilton, Jack MacCormack, Geoff Pay
a Ties Monday, throughout the world, in huge cities and in tiny
A - villages, crowds gathered, to stand with bared heads, in homage to
| - those who fell in the First and Second World Wars. In Halifax they
gathered before an impressive pile of granite, and at Dalhousie they
gathered not at all, The reason? Because Dalhousie, as yet, has no
ener dedicated to her fallen sons, save a series of brass plaques.

_ The almost universal sentiment following this war has'been, ‘no

- more useless piles of masonry and sculpture—let our War Memorials
be living, useful buildings.” We are still awaiting such a memorial
either at Dalhousie or in Halifax.

ey i Last year much time and money was expended to determine, by
| IK _ means of a’ plebiscite, what Dalhousie students considered a fitting
_ Memorial. The results of this plebiscite were as follows: first, a men’s
es residence, second, a swimming pool, and third, a rink. All useful
functional buildings, but buildings to which we object.

First, a residence, while certainly the most essential building on
ef the campus, seems to us to be the responsibility of the University
authorities. A residence was needed here long before the war, and
Para of raising part of the necessary funds from student contri
Now these Engineers were all
outstanding in their line—and
could usually be found outstanding in the line waiting for the

store to open (CEN
whole University was on the verge
of collapse. (This is known as
alliteration—and is a legitimate
weapon used by all good journalists, even unto Editor So’lowmas).

From the library of applied dynamics and practical weaseling a
rush, long distance call went out
to Pres. Auto of Stoodgy Campoos. The HIGH COMMAND
was in an uproar. Communiques
went out right and left—also up
and down. The GAZOOT was
called in in an advisory capacity.
Its capacity was much larger than
expected, however, and it wags
soon called out. The news leaked
out all over the floor. The
GREATEST was coming. The
great Sliderool MacTsquare was
on his way. He was about to un
_ butions seem another epic in the old story of “passing the buck”’. dertake the reconstruction of
" by The swimming pool and rink are definitely student buildings, but ere : Mi Oe el «vik
i ray yee are not fitting War Memorials. a press ¢

What must be had is a building
A Stu
  
   
  
   
   
    
 
   
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
    
   

_ which will serve as the centre of all student life at Dalhousie.
"dent Union building is the obvious answer,
Cultural life in Halifax is almost non-existant. What does linger
“ee is uncentralized, and practically unsupported. Instead of Dalhousie,
, _ ag_the largest and most influential University in the Province, acting
as as the community eentre for Halifax’s cultural life, it is almost un_ known to most Haligonians. There must be some way to bind together
yaa integrate Dalhousie’s life with that of the community in which
a ‘it lives,
_-—--' To come to a practical suggestion, The GAZETTE strongly urges
_ ‘that action be taken on a Dalhousie War Memorial. It is absolutely
i essential to “STRIKE WHILE THE IRON IS HOT!” Humankind is
8 “notorious for tightening its pursestrings as its ardour cools. Already
i — vertain: elements in the population of this country advocate war with
_ various and sundry other nations. Perhaps they have shallow memories—or perhaps they have not punered as those who served have suffered.
snes - The GAZETTE further Bi daks that Dalhousie and the city of
re co iw ' Halifax co-operate in the raising of funds and eventual construction
oe of a building which will serve as a LIVING Memorial to the dead of
both city and University.
‘Finally it suggests that this building should take the form of a
“Civic Auditorium—Student Union Building—a building which would
_ ‘ Poe an Auditorium, rehearsal rooms, exhibit and lecture rooms,
ae and at least eight offices to house the various student activities.
; Bi _ If we, the living, are to honor the dead, we must honor them in

ba he ae 3 Ve >
~ Je y i “ ;
ae 5 oe 4.
:- = ; ee - 7 —
> s ; 4 as “a > ia f
’ ay ¢ . r ro
: a1 ; ae te
7 : ee :
a

7

famed Arkitekt from Yukon U.
stated, ‘“‘Kilroianus erat hic
hic . . hic.

Asked what changes were impending in the arkitekture of the
Campoos, he slyly drew a five
hundred pound, Bigger and Better than Ever, guaranteed quick
results, Atom Bomb from his
hip pocket, and whispered hoarsely, “There will be some changes
made”’,

Taken on a conducted tour of
Cathedral B-r-r-r-acks (open
every day except Sunday, admission only 10c) he informed GAZOOTERS Fuzzter and Ghoul
that he planned to redecorate the
interior in pre-Paleolithic cave
style to promote that “homey atmosphere”, and at the same time
to completely eliminate the exterior.

The Men’s Residence posed another sort of problem. “Anyone
with half an eye can see _ this
structure has possibilities’? quoth

§ Cunrdand Company, Limited

HARD COAL * SOFT COAL

DARTMOUTH, N. S.
7

& Smarr—-Llook SMART

BRYLCREEM

THE PERFECT HAIR DRESSING

® Applied every morning, BRYLCREEM will
keep your hair looking smart and well-groomed
all day long. The natural oils in BRYLCREEM
overcome dandruff and dry scalp, give the hair
a heaithy, natural lustre without that greasy
appearance. All druggists sell BRYLCREEM in
the handy, convenient tube. Buy today.

 

SORED, that was). Anyhow— COKE * FUEL OIL
: they were outstanding—and beat Pa? Bre a iene ee ata tp OIL BURNING EQUIPMENT
es — | right and the cornerstones wrong.
Bevin MEMORIALS © Scosrco mos. Le

 
  

  
  
  
 
 
 

Say SCHWARTZ

and be sure!

It was a good slogan in war.

 

It is now a good slogan in peace:
“Say Schwartz and be Sure”. We urge it for your protection

that you may be assured of the incomparable Schwartz quality

in Coffee, Spices, Peanut Butter, Jelly Powder, Baking Powder and Dried Fruit.

W.H. Schwartz & Sons Ltd.

Canada’s Oldest Coffee and Spice House
Founded in Halifax in 1841

 

Dalhousie University
Helifax, Nova Scotia

Largest Staff, Libraries and Laboratories in the Maritimes

The Faculty of Arts and Science
enjoys international distinction

Degrees of: Diplomas in:

; eh ir ee our lives, net by standing once a year before a granite pile or graven MacTsquare, “but what does ne Bachelor of Arts Engineering
| i oN _ image. WE MUST PAY HOMAGE TO THE FALLEN WITH LIVING °° th the other eye and a half? Bachelor of Science Education
_ MEMORIALS! The interview was nearing its Bachelor of Commerce Musie
‘THE GAZETTE ADVOCATES ACTION. .. . eae name’ .aaked. your hace eee Hoa

   
  
 
 
 
    
  
  
  

a (The editors invite comment from the student body on this very
 -eontroversial subject—and will attempt to publish all letters which
LS!  Pemain grhin a reasonabe degree of vebosity.

 

| Sa lease WE TRY SOCIALISM?

| ee ‘a Dear Sir:—

; ‘Mr. Lew Miller, in last week’s
Gazette, asks:“ Why not try so
basis of its economy every four
years with the same facility with

which we alternate Liberal and
rt,

oe ‘wanting after a fair trial, we
Dy. wae could casually return to the pres| ne ent system.

i us ee seems

eal and economic systems; to say
that this would be a “trial” is to
ignore the lessons of the -past.
Socialism would inevitably give
(Continued on page 8)

er however,

‘ ’ ¥ a
a Sa ee ee ewe ee tg ns =a

reporter if he would have a bottle of B with him. Whereupon he poured five quarts down
our neck, and politely asked if

 

our water from a tap.”
MORAL: A stitch in time may

mean that those wartime trousers

will last two weeks instead of

Henry—How is Smith?

Jerry Flat on his back.

Henry—Why, I saw him dancing with a dizzy blonde last night.

Jerry—So did his wife.

en rr ae :- ees ~~ ee
r p= : " ‘

Hospital Pharmacy

Master of Science Mining Geology
Pre-Professional Courses

Honour and Advanced Courses in many departments

in the B. Sc. course about $210.00 a year

Inclusive Fees

we felt the draught. However, M I a ret B, sa ee average about $160.00 a year
T 1S knowing how to cross a street BY ete sy 08 Cnrshes and through the courses
EDI OR‘S MI AJL, we teilied, “Se! tanks, we eet Regional Scholarships awarded on the result of examinations held in

February in any Maritime school. Special $600.00 scholarships for Honour courses in Classics, Mathematics, Modern Languages and History.
The Profcisianal Faculties

2 er
Law, Medicine, Dentistry, enjoy an unexcelled reputation.

 

Conservative governments. onl
y one. Residences
~ cialism?”” This question implies Socialism implies a funda- Women students live in Shirref
eff Hall —
that should socialism be found mental change in both our politi- ee ao

Residences in the Dominion. Residence is provi
in the University Men’s Residence. eo ee
of two affiliated institutions or in selected and approved homes.
Special arrangements are being made to accommodate married and
single ex-service students.
Meals for all students are available at the Universi
For full information write to THE REGISTRAR.

L we C
me Ohl f 4

) ; me ; | SG ea Vie RR Os ah ae ;

woe ene Ay ee aa [Phe a Ss} bi hei 1f% ee ae \

 
        

/

 

 

4"

 

 

alt The Council.

The Students’ Council, as an executive, manages the affairs of the

organizations of the Student Body.
_ elections held in March, at which all students are eligible to vote. The

The council is elected at general

members, so elected, hold office during the following academic year.....
«Lhe President and Vice-President, representing no faculty, are

elected by all Dalhousie voters.

There are five representatives from

Arts and Science, two from Engineering, two from Medicine, and one
each from Law, Dentistry and Commerce.

f
Zo

 

KR iticctate Six.
Chosen For: '46

November 7—Chosen to represent Dalhousie University in Inter-Collegiate debating this year
are Clint Havey, Al Blakeney,
Bob MacLellan, Whitney Dalrymple, Mark Yeoman and Phil
Arlett.

The subjects chosen by the
dozen contestants ranged from
“The Abolition of the Privy Couneil”’ to the speech by Clint Havey
which denounced the present system of choosing debaters for the

‘~ [nt€rcollegiate team.

‘The chairman, Jim Saunders,
permitted each aspiring debater
to speak no longer than five minutes, and the trials went on without pause from 7.30 p.m, until
almost 9.00.

The judges, Prof. C. H. Mercer agreed with the address given
by Mr. Havey in that an open
forum method should be used to
“select members for the senior debating team. It was pointed out
that in the trials, such as they
are, a debater has no opportunity
to display his full ability.

:

‘Shirreff Hall
Holds Formal

On opening the massive oaken
door of Shirreff Hall, the initial
male arrival was greeted with
such gleeful expressions from the
chorus of sixty-odd female voices
that he quickly retreated to the
shadow of a sparse bush to await
reinforcements.

While the shadow of the sparse
bush gathered a host of hesitant
he-men, beautifully gowned coeds muttered, “Will that man
ever get here?”

Finally the foremost of the
fearful flock said, “Well, gang—
Well, let’s—let’s wel just let’s”,
and this time the hungry expressions did not frighten them (os
 

tensibly at least) from avoiding

the reception line where they
were greeted by Miss MacKeen,
the Keeper_of the Keys of the
Hall, and the House President, |
Chris Irving.

The beautiful voice of Jean
Parker and the music of Don
Warner’s sextet suspended the
throng in the realm of fantasy

until the ringing of the curfew
tolled—them to go home.

A Freshman Representative,

>

appointed by the outgoing coun
cil, and a member-at-large, appointed by the incoming council,
bring the number of Council
members to sixteen. The Secretary-Treasurer is an officer appointed and paid by the Students’
Council.

As you no doubt noticed, $13.
00 of your fees at Registration
were earmarked “‘Students’ Council Fee’. The distribution and
proper expenditure of this money
is the responsibility of the Couneil, It is used to finance the D.
A. A. C., the Dalhousie Glee and
Dramatic Society, Pharos, the
Dalhousie Year Book, Sodales
Debating Society, the “Dalhousie
Gazette’, Delta Gamma and D. G.
A. C., and other Council sponsored
activities. Each society presents
a budget, its proposed expenditures, at the commencement of the
academic year. The budgets,
having been picked over item at
a time by the six man executive
of the Council, are further rehashed and voted upon by the
entire organization.

The Council exercises general
jurisdiction over the activities of
societies which it finances. No
society can be constituted within
the university without the sanction of the Student government.

The Council is the official
medium between the Student and
university aythorities, and between the student body and the
general public.

Upon the broad shoulders of
the Council also rests the responsibility for the conduct of students ‘fon or beyond’ the campus.

Business of such momentous
nature as is today considered
within the confines of the Murray
Homestead has been the duty of
Dal Students’ Councils since 1912,
Meetings are open to all students.

While your Council members
orate weightily and apply their
keen minds to the problems at
hand, the drudgery of minutetaking and book-keeping is done
by the ever-faithful BecretaryTreasurer. Although not a member of the Council, Murray Rankin is to be highly commended for
his aid to the Students’ Council.

A tram driver charged a lady
full fare for her son who was
wearing long pants. At the next
corner he charged a little boy in
short pants only half fare. Then
at the next stop the driver let a
lady on the tram without charging
her anything, She had a transfer,
you dopes.

 

Father Time

  

CANADA'S

OLDEST STUDENT PUBLICATION

 

SCALPELS AND
STETHESCOPES
FORGOTTEN

November 8—Sharp at the
stroke of nine this stormy evening, the Medical Society threw
away books and instruments and
romped gleefully to the Gym to
open their campus activities for
the year. Accompanied by the
feminine pulchritude of Shirreff
Hall and sundry other places,
they danced to the music of Don
Warner and his new, enlarged
seventeen piece (UNIONIZED)
Sextet.

Dancing continued until intermission, when a sing-song was
enjoyed and Roy’s coke bar was
rushed. The parched throats of
all and sundry were in need of
relief after the exertions of the
previous rhythmic gyrations.

The post-intermission dancing
was interrupted for a few enjoyable minutes while maestro Warner and his cohorts gave an exhibition of music and daneing
from darkest Africa to the tune
of “Ugh, What Makes Your Big
Head So Hard?”

The dancing continued until
reared his unvwelcome, hoary head and bade all a
pleasant good night and “Come
again next year’’.

Back Stage At.

 

Shades of Broadway in the
Gym this week as the Glee Club
goes into production of its first
major production of the year—
Shakespeare’s “Twelfth Night.”

—Lights, gas costumes, Elizabethan characters everywhere.

—Howard Norman and _ his
stage crew busily banging in
nails, painting scenery and themselves as they prepare eighteen

Canadian Art
Exhibition At
Dalhousie

There is a Canadian Art, and
it is interesting! That’s what the
Engineers will tell you. Why?
Because last week on the walls of
their Common Room, there was
hung a selection of the 1945-46
Exhibit of the Royal Canadian
Academy.

The Exhibit

 

was brought to

Dalhousie by the Halifax, group

of the Maritime Artists Associa
tion, for the enjoyment of Hali(Continued on Page 8)

 

Music, Mirth

& Free

“What,—you weren't there ?”

Smokes

Let no one say this to you on the morning following the Alumni

Smoker which will be held on November 18th.

It will be one of the

highlights of your campus career—an event to be fondly remembered
long after the kindly portals of Dalhousie have passed you into the

stream of unrelenting Time.

Little “Black
Book” Coming

The Dal Students’ Directory,
under the capable management of
George Hawkins and Bob Blois,
will be available to the student
body about the fifirst of December. Because of increased enrellment a record amount of 1700

 

- copies is to be published.

The delay in publication is not
the fault of the Directory staff,
but that of the student body;
since most of the information in
the booklet is obtained fr the
Student Council forms, which
were filled out during registration. Unfortunately these were
not filled out by some, and only

(Continued on Page. 8)

Come and meet the “Old Boys”
—the famous and the infamous
who have helped to erect the
sturdy walls of Dalhousie history.
Hear Mr. Jehn Martin tell of his
reminiscences of the Dal of years

ago—their athletic teams, the
hazing and pranks.
Join with them in the half.

hour radio broadcast singing the
songs that Dalhousians sing. Mingle with them and enjoy their
healthy spirit of cameraderie.
Laugh with our inimitable contemporary, Jerry Morris and his
blithe patter. Stomp your feet
to the music of Don Warner’s
sextet; and marvel at the harmonious blending of voices in
Geoff. Payzant’s male chorus.
All this in one night?—Yes,—
all this in one night;—and more.
A minimum of three hundred
(Continued on Page 8)

Twelfth Night

scenery changes.

—Bill Mingo tearing madly
around Halifax leaving in his
wake a string of posters: “Dalhousie Glee Club presents Twelfth
Night, November 22, 23. Premiere for students November 21.”

—Director ‘Pigot coaching
his dramatic proteges in last minute instructions. :

—Fairlie Prowse’ industriously
setting make-up in order through
a maze of powder and smoke.

—Elsie Cruikshanks looking
ing for usherettes.
—Gordie Hart issuing orders

here and there.

—George Hawkins talking his
way through Halifax high schools
telling them all about the big
show.

—Frank Padmore and his concert orchestra rehearsing numbers
to play between acts.

—Don Dunlap supplying the
press and radio with all the necessary advertising details.

The pre-production plans for 2a
show represent a great volume
of organization. After the cast
was picked work really began
and they have been rehearsing for
weeks. The stage crew have
been busy painting, planning, setting up the scenery which is the
background of the show. The advertising and publicity men have
much to do in interesting the
public in the production. Makeup and costumes have to be ordered, seating arrangements
must be planned, invitations issued‘and many other details capably handled.

So you see—show production
is not all footlights, applause and
glamour—it represents labor,
thought and time and when the
curtain rises next Thursday
night, the production you see is
the result of many hours spent in
making arrangements for the.
scenes behind the scenes.

COMING
EVENTS

Because of suggestions made
my numerous Dal students it was:
decided to publish a weekly summary of coming events. It is not
practical for The Gazette staff to
be in search of coming events,.
thus it was that in last week column it was suggested that sponsors who desire publicity for their
events notify The Gazette office.
no later than Tuesday noom,
There was no notification of any
events for the coming week. If
you should desire this column to
b continued, please notify us of
the event you want publicized.

Tuesday, November 19th

King’s College Dramatic So
ciety presents three one-act plays,
Saturday, November 16th

Open House at Shiffeff Hall—~
8.30 p.m.

Every Tuesday at 9.00 p.m.
Citizens’ Forum at Murray Home:
stead,

 

 
as
U a 3

un dah in
Y Hi Ke
My

- i

fz
fi

“A
mena A f
Ne ley
Ca J

Hee eet

H oo YOU HERE IN THE FUTURE, NOR ANY OTHER DAL

[ a, welcome to McGill a la Major Forbes version.

With

Ui ey his ce ie vou CONSIDER US UP HERE AS CANADA; WE
AN Fy Dower CONSIDER YOU AT DAL, OR IN THE MARITIMES, AS
age) ii ci YOU ARE FOREIGNERS TO US! * * * and so on into

ee

Forbes got all this out at his first meeting with the Dal

w i ised to have’: won, but they certainly did nb expect insult added to. injury, which the ever ready D. S. Forbes provided with, it
mi ‘poesia the greatest of ease. Further details of his generous treatment
eons Dal team may be found in the letter to the D. A. A. C. from the

‘ bers oe the Dal team and by some members of McGill’s student body.
es ‘It is too bad that ill-feeling should be created between our two
tt Eliot mainly because of the apparent ignorance of one man,
yi who seems to have completely forgotten the meaning of the word
Aye Ri: " ‘sportsmanship’ , as testified in his treatment to a visiting team. Granted

Ui De that he was not pleased at being forced into a match with Dal, common

if ie Hot

oe ar
coh ne

a

Wr
i

es A

et

8 he would have us believe.

ui a _ decency called for at least some feeble attempt at courtesy, even if it
_ hurt. Apparently the very thought of the word courtesy is detestful
to. this great and noble character—Major D. S. Forbes, or at any rate,

te think, and hope, that Major Forbes is speaking only for himself
ur i “and not for the University of McGill, even though he is listed as an
a official: representative of that university.
that a large Canadian university, with such a fine reputation as that

It does not seem reasonable

By i i of McGill’s would ever see fit to exhibit such a prime example of ignorance and ill-feeling towards another university, as did this worthy

if the 2 ‘

the earnest
sti relations between universities, especially on the part of

uy hh
en aes

_ visitors i in every way,

_ ‘person. He went out of his way to make things uncomfortable for his
aside from calling them foreigners.
He gave them false information regarding practice opportunities

a yf and the schedule and time for the meet, whether intentionally or not,

although it would seem the former, according to his attitude.

He did

ne just about everything he could do to give his own university a bad
tts _ name, and this is unfortunate, since we at Dal have been informed of

desire, on the part of McGill Univedsity, to promote good

their Board of

Pe Governors. However, most people will judge them upon the actual

. wi on made by their representatives,
ae bit to blacken the good name of

S i be are very angry and disturbed at the thought of such a person be- —

and Major Forbes has certainly
MeGill in this part of Canada.

We are not just squawking because we were trimmed, but because

ah ‘ing the official representative of an accredited university. We are not

fs A making a mountain out of a molehill, either,
ih ;

ca | Athletic Union,
ye It-is too bad that Major Fo

since Dal’s tennis manager

received an official apology from some representatives of the McGill

I P)
=

on the last day of their stay in Montreal.
rbes has had his education so sadly

MN i neglected or else he slept through the course on good sportsmanship.
He certainly set a new low in that department.

hy i | University, but only against our goo
Mii _ may rest with the knowledge that he

ni

J hope that the members of McGill University will understand our |

"anger at this treatment, and realize that we do not hold it against the

d friend, Major D. S. Forbes. He
has won himself a place in the

| "memories of Dalhousians, a memory that willtnot soon be erased, nor

will the effects be forgotten by either him or by us.
him. Some people remember Pearl Harbour; we at Dal

ger 2 S. Forbes! !!!

¥ eG /
4 4?
Bua oe | :

Wo eS .
Pt if ° q y, | . ouse
oy a ji wae 2 f 
ec ig 1 en

ae, . ;
cot Phe h , x ‘
ore al i ' ESS =

WHERE: SHIRREFF HALL.
WHEN: SATURDAY, 9 to 12.

| ab WHY: SO EVERY GAL CAN

_ SEE PART OF THE 6.728
/ MALES” SHE’S ENTITLED

uf £0.,

ue

| s eee ‘EASY — JUST FIND

ONE OF YOUR 6.728
(MALES TAKE NOTE —
YOU, ‘TOO CAN ASK A
i WOMAN!) | |
7. Vos, WARNER AND THE
pannans WILL BE THERK.
| (That's a plug, Warner).
}AIN
That I promise
will remember

CASINO

AN ODEON THEATRE

Starting Saturday
“THE THRILL OF BRAZIL”

—_——_—_———_
- STARRING

EVELYN KEYES,
KEENAN WYNN

and

ANN MILLER

REFRESH. ae

re) en sa Mey MA Ya | Oye
Ps * yes Hs

“THE DALHOUSIE ¢ GAZETTE

rick
To McGill

The President, Dalhousie Amateur

Athletic Club,
Dear Sir,

In view of the unfortunate
chain of events which marked the
visit of the Dalhousie Tennis
team to McGill University it
seems highly desirable that a
complete report should be presented to the D.A.A.C.

On arrival
team was

at Montreal the
received by Major

Forbes, McGill Athletic Director, ,

in his office. He first of all explained for our benefit the nature
of the Canadian Intercollegiate
Athletic Union, the sixty- -year-old
league of universities with whom
McGill plays most of its intercollegiate sports. It was in stressing the self-sufficiency of this arrangement that he referred to
Dalhousie as being outside Canada and our visiting tennis team
as foreigners visiting a foreign
country. In no uncertain manner he assured us that McGill
considered our present visit and
any future visits as neither necessary nor desirable.

He referred to the Montreal
Indoor Tennis Club as being “exclusive and _ snobbish’, so that
playing of the matches there was
a great concession on their part
and, having requested this concession, he would not ask any
more favors of them in order to
obtain practise facilities for us.
As only two McGill students were
members of the club and permitted to have only one guest once,
he could offer no solution in this
direction. Finally he emphatieally stated that these were the
only indoor courses in Montreal.
This left us with one solitary outdoor court at McGill—but it
rained every day.

We learned subsequently that

1. The Montreal Indoor Tennis
Club is not the only indoor club
in Montreal.

2. There are more than two
McGill students who are club
members and they are not limited to taking one guest once.
One student informed us, too
late, that he was an intermediate
member and could have taken us
to the club on Friday morning
and until three o’clock Friday
afternoon. It was in the presence of this student and several
other McGill students that Major
Forbes reasserted something already said: ‘‘We didn’t want you
fellows to come here in the first
place, we don’t want you now and
we are not interested in having
you at any future time—nor any
other Dalhousie teams.”

This state of confusion and
lack of courtesy continued almost
to the end. Although the wire
accepting our challenge stated
that games were to start at 11
a.m, on the 11th of November,
and although Major Forbes told

Oxford Theatre

Fri. and Sat.

“SUSPENSE” with  Belito,
and “IN FAST COMPANY”
with East Side Kids.

Mon., Tues, and Wed.
“DRAGONWICK,” starring
Gene Tierney, Walter Huston.
Thurs., Fri. and Sat.

“JANIE GETS MARRIED”
with Joan Leslie and “FLYING

TIGERS” starring John Wayne.

FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 15,

‘
7 ¥ led
7 « P f 7 7 7 ate : pa fn ' \ ; . / ate + ‘. : mee Fi
 ) Ay ai ‘oT Ae Tey i ee eS oe) ee , 1" o t %. setae a vi '
Lee PVP ty ieee i We, J ‘ ** 1A Ae oe ne ets hey f i , ma - Me
45 : ‘2 ’ Owe RIE bedi re ir i : / gee cate RNs «Tie CS ‘ x Verte
; om 7 / erst , it? ai EL Ays ,* : . AY Pe aa ¢ ier wit ‘i
: be ( . ae, pity Moy : 7 7 . 2 / ie J ; ‘ :
ie rf oer A Seca he Ve | AAT ' ‘ mn ; ail i
4 ee Wi 7 a yer. PG fe YY , i i f ¥ 7
i a . n- 47 x a4 e el é
i ie eel te , aut 7 ‘ : ; ; ;
: ta, » bY; i . { :
: i ~ PA Hi \ si ;
i : - 7 ~- % oi Ai ”
: it * are " J
‘ ‘ . A, A \
7 Yar xX
# ts . 6 via . ‘
i
: ui :
, ce,
- Le g \y
:
‘
. 4
y +
'
1
_
t

1946

Dal Girls Clip

Acadia Team 3-2

Despite heavy showers, Dal. co-eds edged out a 3-2 victory over
Acadia ground hockey team here on Saturday, chee up another

win to this year’s flawless outfit.

Both teams found it impossible to carry out any amount of forward psssing, so that as a result there was a great deal of “‘golfing’’,
and many hard shots from one end of the field to the other. The ball
changed hands many times, due to the fact that the players, on attempting to dribble it, often slipped in the churned-up field.

us that the courts were ours until 4 p.m. and longer if necessary,
this did not prove to be the case.
Jack Spencer, the tennis manager,
told us on arrival that the games
would begin at 10 am. Even
then, as Major Forbes suggested,
it might have been possible for us
to have practised for an hour or
more before the matches began.
At 8 a.m. on Monday, however,
Spencer telephoned us that the
games were to start at 9 a.m. and
finish at 3 p.m.

With our last hope for practise
removed, we counted heavily on
being able to play our doubles
matches first so that two men
could accustom themselves to the
eourts while risking only one
match instead of two. MeGill,
however, had informed their
players that the singles games
would be played first, and only
their first and second players
were present, the others having
been instructed to come along
later. I could not help pointing
out that the same consideration

would have been appreciated by

the Dal team. At this point: Jim
Duff, McGill’s number one player,
sprang into action and co-operated to the extent that all McGill
players were soon notified and on

hand to play the games as we had

suggested. Unfortunately, Blair
Dunlop had begun his single with
Jack Spencer before this arrangement was completed.

The Dal team is unanimous in
its feeling that our reception and
treatment at the hands of a few
individuals cannot be taken as representing the attitude of McGill
students in general. On the contrary, the vehemently expressed
opinions of many students assured us that they were just as indignant as we were.

On behalf of the Dal team, I
should like to thank every individual who tried to assist us in
any way, and we are especially
appreciative of the action of the
member of the McGill Athletic
Union who apologized for. the
lack of consideration and courtesy on the part of those supposed
to organize the tournament.

Yours very truly,
IAN RUSTED,
Dalhousie Tennis Manager.

Professor Burns Martin of
King’s College would like the
names of students who would be
interested in the formation, after
the New Year, of (a) a voluntary
class in Gaelic, and (b) a Celtic
Club for the discussion of sub
jects relating to the Celtic peoples. P

ORPHEUS Theatre

Fri. and Sat.
“WHIRLWIND HORSEMEN”

and

“AFRICA SPEAKS”

Mon., Tues. and Wed.

“KILLERS OF THE SEA”
and “TRIGGER PALS”

Dal.. took the lead from the
beginning, with Nancy Jones, exEdgehillite, scoring for the home
team. The Acadia team staged
several gang attacks on the Dal.
goalie, but Jean Mitchell put up
a good show and, with the aid of
the full-backs, kept back the
numerous shots.

During the secon® quarter, the
play went from goal to goal and
Nancy Jones again scored for her
team. Ginger Fraser, Acadia star,
made several attempts on the Dal
goal and succeeded in bringing
her team into the running, with
one point to their credit.

The second quarter was much
the same as the first, with Joyce
Hart chalking up another goal
for Dal, and Acadia’s Alex Corey
boosting their total points to 2.

The final quarter was a hard
fought one, with the Dal goalie
blocking numerous tries, as the
Axettes attempted in vain to tie
the score, which, at the completion of the game, was still 3-2 for
Dal.

Line-up; Acadia: Bertie Leslie,
Sandy Stirling, Alex Carver,
Ginger Fraser, Lois Lockhart,
Pat. Churchill, Alex Corey, Gerry
Strong, Barb. Zinc, Pat. Andrews,
M. Bowers.

Dalhousie: Joyce Hart, Prannie
Doane, Pat Snuggs, Nancy Jones,
Marg. O’Neil, L. A. Hayes, Pam
Stevens, Jean Mitchell, Mary
Primrose, Priscilla -Raymond,
Elizabeth Mahon.

Girls’ Ground
Hockey Trims

Edgehill 3-2

Dalhousie Co-eds kept their
undefeated record intact last
Tuesday, when they took their
second game from Edgehill by a

“score of 3-2, at Windsor.

The game was a repetition of
Saturday’s match, with pouring
rain and a muddy field making
precision plays and organized
passing impossible. The game
was fairly evening matched with
Dalhousie’s stronger defense
making a stonewall barrier to the
Edgehill forwards in the first
half; while in the second half
her forwards kept the ball almost
constantly within the Edgehill
25-yard line.

Dalhousie scored early in the
first period on a shot by Nancy
Jones. Pressing the advantage
Dal. made the score 2-0 om a
beautiful corner shot By Pat
Snuggs. Edgehill counted soon
after as Joan Morrow rapped the
ball in after Edgehill was given
a penalty shot within Dal’s goal
circle.

At half time the sun returned,
making the game a bit faster.
Dal ended her scoring on a goal
by Pat Godfrey. Edgehill forwards almost scored on several
occasions, on break-away plays,
but miraculous stopping by Dal’s
fearless goaler saved the day, on
all but one occasion, when Jane
Cox tallied the final score, making

(Continued on Page 8)

 
 

 

He _CAMPU S

. Si
, ROU NDUP
| By WINDY O'NEILL
a? One rousing huzzah for the of- —
i ‘ficials of the U. of B. C. who reae. i

ye: fused to give Tim Buck permis4A gion to speak to their students.

_ -Mr Buck is head of the infamous
ae \ ‘Labor-Progressive Party, alias,
| 1 Bake Communist Party, alias, Military
| ‘Information to Russia Society.
Even though Uncle Joe will get
awfully mad, we think that it
y would be stretching the concept
of democracy too far, to allow
traitors and would-be traitors to
trespass on, our citadels of learn» “ing. - What - nerve mnie guy has!

*

aie ; Night some time this week. We
ss suggest that provides a glorious
chance to prove the authorship
is, ofthe drama. After the per| Aras Peclnes: the graves of both
Bacon and Shakspeare should be
___-wisited and the one that’s turned
\. Mo Over, is it.
| ae e * *
Py Two reporters from the Univer4 sity of Saskatchewan paper, by
: padding themselves in the most
opportune ‘places and donning
my feminine attire, crashed a strictes ly “hen” weiner roast, held by
| a, vi the “unfair sex’, at that seat of
|, ag learning. The girls freely disa cussed numerous males, of the
vg campus, and provided the two
> with an extremely’ confidential
‘aan story. How much, any Dal man
ss would like to place a dictaphone
in Shirreff Hall ‘after he has
taken his pretty home—although
it would not meet with the ap
proval of an anti-vivisectionist.
* * x *

Cathedral Barracks man _ said
times are so tough that he has to
go there and drink up all his beer
so he can cash in the bottles—
we like the one about the fight
manager, who said his boy, a
welterweight, had been hit so
much that he swelled out into a
heavyweight—a hula dancer is
just a shake in the grass—a good
line is the shortest distance between two dates—a peeping-tom
is just a window shopping wolf—
a person who writes on a wall
| that a certain person ‘‘was here’,
A) is net all there,

 

* Attention All
_ Water Addicts

Dalhousie is once again planning to enter a swimming team in
intercollegiate competition. Tryouts for the Varsity team have
_ _ gtarted at the Stadacona Pool. A
-_eapable coach has been secured
and large turnouts are expected
at the workouts, which will be
"held every Monday at 5:30 to
6:30, and every Thursday from
6:00 to 7:00 p.m.

A new sport is also being introduced to Dal at the Stad Pool,
i) water polo, and all are wel_ eome to come out to the Pool
and have a try at the game. No
previous experience is required,
and the game will be played durir jing the above-mentioned hours.

 

     
  
  
 
  
   
 
  
 
    
 
    
   
  
   
  
  
    
   
   
  
  
   
   
  
    

 

Found: A single strand pearl
a "necklace. Owner may have same

it Found: A Waterman’s seuutain

ii Owner may have same by
plying to GAZETTE office.

ime

a" ie » The’ Mee Shakespearian |
Pie Players are presenting the Twelfth

JOTTINGS: The other night a

é dy AT
; rie et rales ‘

‘THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

Meet Dal’s
Basketball Squad

The “Gold and Black” senior
basketball squad will take to the
floor some time next week in the
first scheduled game of the Halifax Senior Basketball League.
This year, Senior games will be
played on the floors of Dal Gym
and the Stadacona Gym, with the
likelihood of most games on the
Dal floor being played on Saturdays.

Under the guidance of Coach
Ken Chisholm the Tiger squad
has been undergoing strenuous
workouts during the past few
weeks, and last week the senior
representatives of Dal were picked, although one or two more
players may be added to the team
lineup this week.

Meet the boys, six of whom are
freshmen—

BLAIR DUNLOP: Dal’s sixfoot, nineteen-year-old converted
guard. Blair was originally a
Yankee boy, hailing from’ the
vicinity of South Bend, Indiana,
but then he saw the light and
came to Canada, where he started to play basketball at the tender age of 13. Until this year he
was a forward with St. Andrew’s
Intermediates and for the last
three years, with Dal Tigers.
Blair, who has spent his spare
time in Commerce, is in his
fourth year, and will occupy the
position of guard on this year’s
edition of the Tigers.

GORDON ALGIE: A 5’ 10%”
22-year-old Moncton, N. B., product, who has put in nine years
at the Grand Old Game. Gordie
started off quietly, playing with
the Maritime Juvenile Champs,
Moncton Y.M.C.A. Gordie committed one error, putting in one
year with an Acadia Varsity
team, which won the N. 8. Intermediate Title. Gord then performed one year with the Da!
‘Tigers, in 44-45, and, at the same
time, took up medicine, where
he is now entering his third year.
He will also hold down a regular
position as guard.

CARL GIFFEN: 20-year-old,
5’ 11” Haligonian, with a big appetite, to quote the boys. Giff.,
like Dunlop, played with St. Andrew’s Intermediates, and then
with the Dal Tigers for the past
three years, a total of six years
of basketball. Carl took his early
schooling at Queen Elizabeth, and
then, like many other hopefuls,
tried pre-med at Dal. Two years
later, unlike many others, he entered Med school, and is now in
his second year. Giff. too, will
hold down a regular position as
guard with the Tigers.

EDDIE ROGERS: Another
member of last year’s Dal Tigers.
Eddie is 21 years old, and measures up to a full 6” in height,
which altitude he achieved in the

 
 
 

a]
‘ a
os

 

Ba Us

# = a
) teat +4 me od ' ,
Rirdermidnid he nareetomne wn >

  

environs of Yarmouth, N. S. Eddie learned to play basketball
about the same time he learned
to walk, at the tender age of ten.
He left his mark in Yarmouth,
playing with the Maritime Interscholastic Champs. He too, had
to learn the hard way, spending
three years at Acadia, the N. S.
Intermediate Champs, and then
proceeded to Dal for an education in Law, also playing for the
Dal Tigers. Eddie was high
scorer in last year’s Basketball
Tournament. This 2nd year Law
student will hold down a centre
position for Dal.

RUGGLES PRITCHARD: Ottawa’s gift to the Dal Tigers.
“Rug” is 5’ 9", and is old enough
to vote, in Saskatchewan, having
achieved the mature age of 18.
Rug is rather inexperienced at
the game, having only played for
five years, which included playing
with Ottawa Glebe Collegiate,
Dominion Junior Champions in
’44-45, Ottawa Senior Interscholastic titlists last year. Rug is
registered in Pre-med, and is a
Freshman at Dal. He will play
at guard for the Tigers.

HERTZ LEVINE: Montreal’s
humble offering to the “Gold and
Black’”’, “Hertz” is 5’ 11’ and is
really fresh, meaning he is only
17. He has a fair record, throwing a basketball around for six
years, which included playing for
Montreal Y.M.H.A. Juveniles,
City champs for two years. He
then moved into Junior company
with the Y.M.H.A. and this team
reached the Dominion finals last
year. Hertz is a freshman in
commerce and plays Centre for
the Dal Tigers.

GEORGE KELLY :22 years
old, tipping the tape at 5’ 10”.
George is another. “Herring Choker’’—to the unintiated, he comes
from Saint John, N. B., and has
had eight years of basketball behind him. George played for
Saint John Capitols, Maritime
Juvenile Champs, and then advanced to Saint John Juniors,
who reached the Dominion semifinals in his year with them.
After doing a spellein the Navy,
George played for the Saint John
Intermediates, N. B. champs, last
year, and then came to Dal this
year as a freshman in Commerce,

He plays right forward for the
Tigers.

DOUG SARANTOS: A 5’ 10”
army veteran, this 28-year-old
forward has been playing basketball for about 10 years. He is a
Halifax boy, having played with
Y.M.C.A. intermediate and senior
teams in the city, and with the
Army Engineers, City Intermediate Champs, in 1939. Doug
rolled up an impressive war record, although he doesn’t men
inf

ut Au. Rie aie h Te ta

   

'
Porta

Ged Pe : FT 7“ fa
tale a ee ee ert

7

 

 

McGill University took the

ILL REPULSES DAL TENNIS

Gold And Black
Lose 7 Matches

 

Canadian Intercollegiate Tennis

Championship Monday as they swept all seven events from their Dal
housie challengers.

As it turned out they had little to fear from their

Maritime antagonists, who almost had to move heaven and earth to

get the chance at the title.

The Dal players had the disadvantage of

playing on strange courts and a 500 mile air journey behind them.

Senior

tion it. He received the Military
Cross at’ Dunkirk. Doug is taking first year pre-Med, and plays
right forward for the Tigers.

HERB ROSENFELD: The
other half of the Montreal duo on
the Dal team. Herb is a 5’ 8%”
eighteen-year-old, with three
years of organized basketball experience. He put in one year
with the Y.M.H.A. Juveniles,
Montreal city champs, and took
his schooling at ‘Baron Byng.
Herb is a left forward, playing
in that position for the Tigers,
and is enrolled in his freshman
year in Arts,

SCOTT MORRISON: Another
Haligonian who came up to Dal
by way of Queen Elizabeth High.
Scott is only 18 and is 5’ 10%”
tall, althogh he looks taller. He,
too, has only had three years’ basketball experience, playing for

Queen Elizabeth and Halifax
Y.M.C.A. juniors, N. S. champs
last year. He is a left forward

for the Dal Tigers, and is registered in Science in his first year
at Dal.

D.G.A.C.

The highlights of the past
week were the ground hockey
matches with Acadia and Edgehill, both played under the rainy
skies and on a muddy field.

The Dal. team proved to be
better “water rats’ and copped
both games with a 3-2 seore.
Every member of the team did
her bit to bring on the victories,
and exceptionally fine playing
was shown by right inner, Nancy
Jones and the Tigers’ goalie,
“Turk” Mitchell.

Only one game remains to be
played, that is the return match
with Acadia. This is expected to
be the closest of the season and
if it proves to be another one to
Dal’s credit our team will be the
unofficial champions of the DalAcadia-Edgehill-H, L. C. series.
This game will probably be played
on next week and all those with
ears who are able to drive up are
asked to get in touch with the
manager, Pam Stevens.

In the basketball world, the
grads have picked up a team consisting of Ann Saunderson, Margie MacPherson, Norma _  Sherman, Virginia Phillips and Kay
Smith, and are going tc stage
exhibitions games on Tuesday
night with a couple of teams
picked from the regular players.
We should have some good basketball—the grad players were
all stars on the Dal. team.

The first swimming team tryout was held last Monday, with

In the singles division, Jack
Spencer : begam py waltzing
thfough Blair Dunlop, who he
had always found tough before,
and Colin Ramsay defeated
Bernie Creighton 6-2, 6-3. Duford
of McGill edged Fred Fennel 6-4,
4-6, 6-4, and after a shakey start
Duff rallied to take Dalhousie’s
star, Bill Moreside 2-6, 6-4, 6-2.
In the final singles event Breen
Marien overcame Ian Rusted 9-7,
6-2,

Dalhousie fared even worse in
the Doubles Department, supposedly the seat of their greatest
strength. In the first match McGills Jack Spencer and Duford
repulsed Ian Rusted and Bill
Moreside ‘by scores of 6-4, 6-3.
Duff and Morien made a clean
sweep of it for McGill by defeating Dalhousie’s Blair Dunlop and
Fred Fennel.

 

about nine girls turning out. As
the coach wasn’t there, regular
team practice couldn’t be carried
out but the girls practised individually. Regular practises will
be on Mondays from 5.30 to 6.30
with the boys’ swimming team,
Anyone wishing to attend these
practises should get in touch
with manager Elsie Cruickshank,

 

Tao

SS

i
~ ‘ ——

pe

rests)

 

ae

   
   
 
   
 
 
 
 
      

0 Wish your pencil
were smooth as
smooth can be?

TURQU

aoe

f} Wish the point
would last and last
and LAST?

=

emu :

XK Wish it were the
very finest pencil
for drawing and

writing you ever
laid hands on?

Make your wish

come true—

10c

EACH
Less in
quantities

Buy

“¢ We Sealed”

(SUPE BONDEL

Te

PENCILS

     

ret DTT eVect e

.

 
    
    

  

. .

ee AGT ase"

Le +3 oy ae,
oly ao.

SS

WE FORGET ce

A Remembrance Day Story
‘By LEW MILLER, HALIFAX

 

ei sod, ie UaNh eavecing flame of the candle cast light upon the weary face

  

 
 

 
 

sie

ind here several other attempts lay.

 
 

  

: leeping eoldier who had been
near the officer’s feet bevan to groan and mutter. The
lie eutenant gazed at him for a
‘moment. “Poor kid. — Poor, kid”,
said, and then he reached down
and gently shook him.

ieee The soldier rolled quickly and
_ gtarted to rise. ‘“What’s the mattert —wWhat’s the matter?” He
was frightened. |
“It’s all right, Clark,” the

Dy elier said calmly. “You were
only talking a bit.—Go on back
. sleep.
| Be. The soldier grinned shigertehly

et: ‘and. after rearranging his pack to
make a more comfortable head| a a rest, he settled back on the floor.
a The officer looked at what he
ie ee had written; “Dear Mrs. Graham:
ae a —” The “crump” of a mortar
3 ~ bomb ‘shook the house, and dust
; fell from the rough timbers that
J eed the ceiling of the cellar.
- The young soldier sat up. His
"wide eyes stared at the officer.
‘he officer smiled reassuringly
ene the soldier settled back again
i - Another “Crump”. The officer
Re _ ducked involuntarily. The soldier
Bat up again. The shadow of the
- officer fluttered eerily on the
aie wall.
an nat Phat was dae” said Clark.
Ath The officer grinned again. “A
rey ie Peay miss is as good—”
tg Ae -™_as a mile,” Clark interruptie Pais ed and concluded. He tried to
ss gmile, and then he began to ery.
. ity The explosions shook the house
at frequent intervals.
“Ah, come now, Clark. T know
it’s: been a bit rough, —but we've
’ ye come through all right. Just calm
down now. — It won’t be long before we go out for a rest.” He
_ firmly held the soldier’s arm, en_ deavouring to reassure the man
whilst hiding his own fears and
doubts. “Pull yourself together
ms. ” E
‘The cellar door was opened
“gna a sudden current of air swept
the flame from the candle.
“Myr. Rowles” a voice called,
: Are you awake, Sir?”
ki i “Ts that you, Sarg?”

| nN ae “Yes, Sir—Thought you might
like a spot of tea, Sir.”

“Wait till I get this candle
Tt.” A match was scraped against
the : ration box. “Damned matches
are a bit damp.” In the darkness
a bright, bluish trail showed
where it had been struck. On the
second attempt it burst inte flame
and the officer transferred the
oe a  flamé to the candle. The candle

ss flame, small at first, grew steadily
and then remained at a constant

  

  

 
 

  

  

 
 

   

os a

  

 
 

    

    

    
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
   
 
   

a a size. He blew out the match and

flicked the useless stick into a

_ murky corner.
‘The sergeant deiaegah cil with
two mugs of tea. “Here you are,
Sir.’ He looked at Clark and
then said, “Here, Clark, I brought
this for you.” The lieutenant
‘knew that the sergeant had lied,
for it had been their custom to
F 4 ave their molty “spot. of tea’”’

  
 

“ ‘The: sergeant took off his hel
glistening rain cape. The

e Fo ssecegaia r Mrs. Graham:” he began.

n met and unbuttoned the neck of |

a ficer fier’ “Still Asean ratty |
ard??? |

he young officer who sat upon a ration box and, with another box
ading on ‘its end for a desk, wrote slowly and carefully.

ae Dear Mrs, Graham: —By the time 1s pasate’ this letter you

wil have been informed of the sad fate of .

ie No—That won't do,” he muttered to himself. He tore the sheet

om the pad, crumpled it inte a ball and.. threw it on the dirt floor,

 

“Pouring Sir.”

What’s Jerry pounding now.

“Tt’s “the crossroads again
Seems to give it a go quite regular.”

The sergeant had noticed the
crumpled paper on the floor and
the pad on the upturned box.

“Lucky’s mother, Sir?”

“Yes,” the officer replied.
“Yes,—wish I didn’t have to
write it, but—well it’s got to be
done.”

“Sure was a tough break,—
Lucky getting it. Damned good
min, he was.”

“Yes, Sarg, he was a good man.

“There’s been a lot of damned

good men. There will be more
too.”’ His voice was husky. The
sergeant sensed the bitterness

 

and tried to change the subject.

“Any further word of us going
out for a rest, Sir?”

The lieutenant smiled. “Yes,
thank God. The “Old Man” said
morning. The Runner just came
a little while ago.—I guess you’d
better tell the men. TI’ll give
further orders when I get them
from Company.”’

“Tl tell them right now, Sir.
They'll be glad to hear it.”
The sergeant was- pleased. He
turned and walked toward the
cellar door.

The officer cupped his hands
around the candle flame. “Thanks
for the tea, Sarg.”

“Oh that’s all right, Sir.” As

 

FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 1946

 

 

AN OUTSIDE VIEW

Strictly speaking, it is no concern of mine what the average outsider thinks, or would think about Dalhousie, in passing through the

place.

It may be of interest to some, however, to hear a few of the

comments of one unfortunate who took the campus unawares, so to
speak, at a time when no campus should admit outsiders—on Tuesday

morning.

SS
he departed from the cellar into

the rain, he shouted, “Ill be back
later.”’

The “crumping” of the shells
and mortar bombs increased in
intensity. Dust fell steadily from
the ceiling and occasionally little
bits of mortar fell out of the wall.

Lieutenant Rowles stared at his
letter pad for a few moments and
then he lowered his forehead to
his hands, his elbows and forearms making a triangular support
with the ration box. —

“A good man”. Yes, Lucky
had been one of his best men; always at the right place when he
was needed, fearless, happy,
thoughtful and lucky; or he had
been until that last night.

He couldn’t forget that last
night. Lucky and he on a reconnaissance patrol, their approach
to the canal, the flare bursting
overhead, the German orders being shouted, their dash across a

field, the fluent rattle of the Span...

daus, and then Lucky faltering
and gasping for breath. He remembered aiding Lucky to the
shelter of an irrigation ditch, and
he would never forget how warm
and sticky Luck’s blood had been,
nor would he forget his expression ef surprise. That fatal flare
had shown him everything. He
had watched helplessly, listening
to Lucky’s choking struggle for
breath and he was numbed when
the struggling ceased.

He remembered how frightened he had been when he ran from
the place, his mouth dry, his
heart pounding. He ran straight,
like an animal before a forest
fire.. He didn’t look back. He
ran without thinking. He ran until he gained the protection of a
corpse and he flung himself on
the damp ground, panting for
breath and sobbing from relief
and fear and loss.

He was aroused from his reverie when the cellar door was
suddenly thrust open and the candle was again extinguished.

“Sir’’, the Sergeant was excited. “‘Sir’, he repeated. “There’s
a Runner here from Company.
Jerry’s started a big push on our
right. We're to stand to and he
ready for anything.”

(Continued on Page 8)

MARVEN’S BISCUITS

 

FAVORITES SINCE 1906

Moncton, N. B.

Halifax St. John

Quebec Montreal

'

On Tuesday morning the societies are recovering from last
Friday night, and_putting up notices about this or that. At that
time also reporters, dogs, C.C.
U.F. spies and various young ladies pour into The Gazette office
an hour and a half before the
deadline to find out what is wanted by that deadline. On Tuesday

-morning there are also, I am told,

a few classes here and there.

The gentleman of whom I speak
happened to be writing articles
on Canadian education for rags
in the Old Country, and asked me
where the Arts
Having nothing better to do, and
always anxious to prémote the
honor of the place and so on, I
carefully steered him away from
the Arts Building and took him
over the Archives, pointing out
the splendid oils, the interesting
documents, the clever ship models, and wasn’t the weather lovely. At last, however, he lost interest and asked for the Arts
Building. I guided him to the
Library of King’s, where I pointed out an excellent statue of
Dante Allighieri, but the fool
wanted his blasted Arts Building.
So I took him to Middle Bay,
where he met the members of
hethe Ancient and Honourable A.
S. L., who gave him coffee before
he could ask about the. Arts
Building.

Eventually he finished his coffee and, with a nasty look in his
eye, asked for the Arts Building.
I sighed, and took him .to the
Gym store to see student life in
the raw. Unfortunately it was
raw, and after three of our
charming co-eds had asked him to
the Sadie Hawkins Dance, the
Med. Ball and a session of English 2 to hear about the ey he

co

: EATON’S :

Smart

 

People
Shop Now
For
Christmas
EATON

MARITIMES
ween £00640000000000000000000000008

 

 

—_——

 

«hs

Building was.

~

lifted up his voice and wept, and
asked for the Arts Building. I
decided he needed a talking te.

“My dear chap,” I said, “I’ve
been trying to spare you that ordeal, but if you insist we’ll go to
the Engineers’ Building.”

He refused my kind offer and
threatened to report me to the
President. This speeded up the
old reactions, and we posted in
haste to the Arts Building, and
climbed the flight of stairs which
led_to the brazen gates of the
great emporium of knowledge
which dominates the lives of
some twelve hundred students.
Before the door I turned and
warned him, but he was, like C.
Smith, adament. The doors.
swung open, and we entered.

A motley group were standing
in the Hall of the building, chatting and trying to look as though
they were not smoking. A, glaring bulletin board was covered
with lurid signs of one kind or
another, especially the latter.
Incoutiously he went closer and
peered at one monstrosity, and
found himself looking at a@ pieture of a quite unabashed young
lady, to which was attached the
legend: Do you want your body
burned by the atomic bomb?
Come to the C.C.U.F. or else. . .”’
Apparently that chap Kilroy had
been around, too.

There was a tug at my sleeve
—the fool wanted to know what:
the C.C.U.F. was. I began to explain about Russia and _ things;
when a fellow called Seabiscuit:
interrupted:

“T’m an expert on them, sir.
Studied ’em for years; almost got
caught once, too. That was when
they organized a dope ring, and I
was disguised as a professor—
they were afraid to do anything.”

“But what are they?”

“Get last weeks issue of The
Gazette. Wrote a monograph om
the beasts myself.’

Before the idiot could look at
any more notices or listen to any
fools like Seabiscuit, I steered
him into The Gazette office. The
approach was difficult; dogs were

(Continued on Page 8)

 

OO>0OO0

O

LIMITED

j bag hat a's
Wield’ aN at: i ee be ef dy Eh ae 3

       
    
 
     
     
      
     
      
      
    
     
     
       
   
      
    
      
    
        
           
     
     
    
    
   
   
   
    
     
     
    
   
    
     
    
   
      
       
    
     
 
   
      
          

          
     
       
      
      
    
   
   
     
       
   

=

=
.

">

a
   
 
  

 
   
 

ra)

 

eo
7

7 a ca
ae

vf

 

     
 
  

_ om

io ce
an cn Sy,
Fee ay Fe ae ae ae eee ae

RIDAY, NOVEMBER 15, 1946

it

   

The Of 7 be

‘Walling Bagpipes

__er reproving tone, “why did that
man down the counter get up and

i


a)

ri

" wah?

— Iessly. “I dunno. I told him the

_ frankfurters weren’t cooked yet,
ON

a he

the punishment of the culprit. :
native Paris, he was heard to say to the President, in his own native

rae oF
vere |”

Across the mist-enshrouded moore of Studley there comes an
eerie, forlorn wailing as of a lost soul in torment. Strangers passing
by on the Highroad bless themselves and hurry past with many a fur
tive glance into the funereal gloom. Beginning with low, discordant

shriek and then trail off into a murmuing chant of tortured notes. The
pupils of Mr. Walker’s Residence School for Young Boys are terrified.
Their traditional school spirit is chilled by the mysterious sounds. No
more does the football team exercise at 7 o’clock in the morning, for
it is still dark and who knows when the wailing monster may strike
from the gloom. . .

/ Each night without fail the sounds were repeated. Gathered in
their chill, uncomfortable garrets the King’s students discussed the
enigma and various theories were evolved. Same schools of thought
were of the opinion that the noises were produced by a strange Cape
Breton musical instrument, constructed of cow-hide and hollow reeds,
called Bagpipes. This theory gradually increased in popularity, and
a ways and means committee suggested that the perpetrator of the
noises was a member of the student body who became bewitched at
nightfall. They advocated that search parties and posses be formed
and that they diligently search the grounds for the menace of the
shadows. .

From the garrets, a window, latticed by the pale glow of the moon,
squeals and shivers open and a raucous voice gives forth with a derisive cat-call. (This to draw the attention of the spectre while the
searchers surround it.) Vague shadawy forms dash from every doorway into the night in search of the elusive piper. Much later, as dawn
and the kitchen staff steal onto the scene, the searchers, disgruntled
and baffled, return to admit failure, while the horrible wail of the
pipes mocks them from the depths of the woods surrounding Shirreff
Hall.

Night after night the mystery continued. The searchers caught
glimpses of their quarry only to have him slip away into the fog. Beartraps and snares were tied but to no’ avail. The piper ignored these
attempts to catch him, and continued to ravish the nights with brutal
stabs and darts of noise. “

Finally, tired of their efforts to trap the mad musician, the student
body wired the French Surete for assistance. It was fortunate that
they did so for on the staff of the Surete there was one Inspector SacPipe, who was an authority on that type of musical instrument much
used in Normandy, which is made with goat-skins and hollow rods and
closely resembles the Cape Breton instrument. On being told of his
mission, the Inspector said, in his own native tongue, “J’irai’”’.

With the use of those cunning methods known only to the French,
the famous inspector tracked down the scoundrel of the night, and
saving his entrance for the most dramatic moment, tramped inta the
dining hall, dragging his captive behind him.

There he stood, the villain, bony knees protruding beneath a short,
dirty, weed-entangled kilt. His matted, filthy hair hung over his face.
The weird instrument with which he tortured Mr. Walker’s Boys was
clutched under his arm. With a gesture worthy of some great tragedjan, Inspector Sac-Pipe flung back the hair from the monster’s face
and pointing dramatically said, in his own native tongue, “Regards,
e’est lui”. ;

Great was the surprise of the students, for the mysterious specter
was none other than an erstwhile divinity student, George (Mc Bagpipes) Burchill. At a meeting of the governing body it was decided

that the offender be allowed to live if he abandon his nocturnal excursions for something less irritating. One suggestion was that he
take up checkers.

But we are interested only in the solving of the case rather than
As Inspector Sac-Pipe returned to his

tongue, “T] ne fait rien.”
Eero
“Walter,” Roy yelled in a rath- that he’d have to wait for them,”
Roy asked what was wrong
with that and Walter said: “I
dunno. I went to the kitchen. Accidentally I stepped on the cat’s
tail. The cat yelled and when I
came back the man was gone.”

leave so quickly?”
Walter raised his hands help
.

t qh °
is .
t ip
ee
“¥ Le yi" > ’

eT

wv
‘ :

7 * ¢ 3
a 5
te yy e)
i wy
1 eo iy a
‘ q
is wy ce ‘
i

Diary Of Sanne! Peeps

Noy 13. This morning I began a practice which I find by the ease
I do it with that I shall continue, it saving me money and time; that
is, to trimme myself with a razer, which pleases me mightily. At
breakfast I was informed.of a most malodorous state of affairs by my
serving girl from the hall. She was pleased to tell me that Miss Fairlee Prowse has again added infamy to her name by putting another
engagement to her already over-long list. So to bed, alone, as my wife
after bathynge must needs sleep by herself.

Nov. 14: Up and walked with my boy (whom, because of my wife’s
making him idle, I dare not leave at home). Walked first to the Hall,
to Mrs. Turner. She was dressing herself by the fire in her chamber,
and there took occasion to show me her leg, which indeed is the finest
I ever saw, and she not a little proud of it. Here she did trust me to
the extent of telling me of her dis-satisfaction with the conduct of my
Lord Foster who, as she says, has been acting in a most ungentlemanly
fashion toward one of her wards, a young girl called Anne Tompkins,
whom it has not been my privilege to meet.

Noy. 15: Up betimes and to the office, where all the morning
sitting, and did discover three or four fresh instances of Sir R. McDougall’s old cheating dissembling tricks, he being as false a fellow as
ever was born. Thence to dinner at Atwoods’, where I was shown a
fine rarity, of fishes kept in a glass of water that will live forever:
and finely marked they are, ‘being foreign. Here whilst conversing
with Sir Roy I was grieved to hear that a gay young blade called Flynn,
calling himself rather Sir Peter, has been guilty of forcing his attentions on that young (too young, I am told) Miss Jean Parker, whose
music so pleased me at the last festival. Hence home and to bev. having got a great cold I think by pulling off my periwigg so often,

MEDICINE’

The Medical Society ascended
to new heights of accomplishment last week. At the regular
monthly meeting sandwiches and
coke were served, a film on surgical anatomy shown with the evening ending at the Med. Dance.

 

it SE RD
HEAR YE!
HEAR YE!
HEAR YE!

Best wishes to Chuck and Pat
on their trip to the National Con
a Th vention. Good show and lots of
Come O © fun, but Curly was. glad to be
| back.

We hear Kilroy and Aggie are
quite chummy—he left his calling
eard in her hypophyseal fossa
last week!

Gazette
Gambol

November 29

The Hallowe’en parties at each
of the Robie Street wig-wams
were very successful. Charlie,
Jim, Eppie and Harmony paid a
visit to 348 to look the situation
over. It seems that the Phi Rho’s
can do interior decorating on the
side and-are masters of the pumpkin pie art too.

Hoppy, Phyl and Boud. are
planning to conduct a summer

 

 

eee” H ‘ SiGe aE of, or : : Th: wiy - .
0A re
3 ES. bed ie, ba) ta fie 7 ot . , ;

en

E ‘ OMS ots

re
Fa
y : L A
ra yee eee

~

Page Seven

LAW

Well, its here... . the big “do”
of the year .... the Law Ball,
By the time you read this the
legal lads will be setting aside all
those dull and dingy volumes on
the walls of the Law librery, and
donning “the one with the press
in it”? in preparation for the evening’s festivities.

 

No doubt many of the less dig
nified of our number will be
found indulging in sweet (and
powerful) nettar to boost up

courage for the ordeal. Of course,
such people as these constitute
the minority of the Law School,
and of course do not write for
The Gazette .. hic! (’scuse me).

However, it should be a gala
affair for all those of you who
are fortunate enough to attend,

The Law football team is still
up on top, and, I might add, intends to stay there. Dave Churchill-Smith, coach, manager, star,
etc. of the team, says his boys
are in fine shape.

Law intends to make its mark
in Basketball this year. The team
has already held practices and
has a game planned with the
Varsity squad. Better get going
if any of you other faculties
don’t want to be shown up!

a

course in laboratory technique
due to their success in quantitative analysis. But who turned
that water on with the air hose
open—Kilroy?

The basement of the Med. Library has been the scene of much

activity lately. It seems that
Pharos is collaborating with
Rogues’ Gallery and ‘“Who’s
Who.”

Sufficient has been said for
this week but as MacArthur said:
“T’ll be back.’’

 

“T say,” called the English omnibus driver to the passengers below. “Is there a macintosh down
there big enough to keep three
young ladies warm?”

“No,” came an eager voice from
below. “But there’s a Macpherson
doon ‘here that’s willin’ to try.”

Pause for Coke

}

———|
ra

SSS TI
—=—
UL

F Or

& wy
SOO

AN
wa \

9: VARA
AUS
NN ns Rt s\\

. _
TA
AY WEY

AN
\

} a prea iF AW

COCA-COLA

 

pi a x\\
\

RECOM oo

\

Coke = Coca-Cola
“Coca-Cola” and its abbreviation “Coke”
are the registered trade marks which
distinguish the product of Coca-Cola Ltd.

 

 

 
  

king him. loud que fe ‘ia as
Wi Aa Hades d do you want?”

ear) you doing toamare ae these

] og Lok’ | so. ‘heed, however,
ns him to. the Murray

aun had left him in the
but when I returned he
and I heard voices
‘raised in the room where the
ai Raa meets. It was all right;
tt e council was out to lunch, and
; it was only a class he had wand into. I removed him, and
on his views on Dalhousie,
which I meant to pass on, but
ey were not nice—so I won't.
ne *Cf. MeGosh, J. C.. The Prev
inl ‘The
Green Lantern
aii 4 The Sign of a Geod
3 Meal.

: | “College Ring
oe Pins

‘Duathcuste rings are now

pene

1 ce ye for pins take
, Riera: the factory—it will
: puetp if you onder early. |

i | | Limited

pa | ‘i | Bate Jeweller,
is Eraeeenees eee Lennie

Chi

‘aneald be channelled
construction of housing |

tions. ‘Factories,

annual income.

"SWEET CAPORAL CIGARETTES
"The purest form in which tobacco can be smoked”

 

in stock—for your conven- —

s 1) (Gontinudd Som. page . 4)

| ieee of the smajority of Cana_ dians, and under present conditions they are even less able to
», give every Canadian a home.

Today, all ‘puilding materials
into the

or of
such essential community  ser
vices ae hospitals and fire stayetail stores,

places” of amusement and such

buildings should be . considered
- nen, until the needs of

every citizen for dwelling places

has been met, said the group.
Dissatisfaction with the hous
ing results of private enterprise

was clearly demonstrated in the

list of suggestions approved by
the Forum as possible methods
of meeting the housing shortage.
The group called for construction of large apartment houses to
be rented at low cost, construction to be stibsidized by the government in order to keep rents
within the reach of the average
Canadian with his less than $2,000
This Dominionwide program would be under
the supervision of a national
housing authority, and local construction would be undertaken
by locally-formed committees.
Meanwhile building of luxury
single family houses should be
suppressed, and all possible present housing facilities, such as
disused military barracks, vacant
dwellings and summer homes
should be utilized.

  

   
  
  
      
 
 
  
   
  
 
  
     
 
       
     
     
       
     
   
     
      
       
    
 
  
 
  
 

 

Corsages

A “Colonial” Corsage designed by ROSEDALE
speaks eloquent volumes
of tenderness and love.

 

381 6 NURJERIES Limited...

ARRINGTON /T- HALIFAX

 

Thomas Wallace
SONS & DAUGHTERS

  

Optometrists & Opticians

Y. M. C. A. BUILDING

Halifax, Nova Scotia

AS ra yh ct oa

i hae ye pt

 
   
    
   
   
 

_tup DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

inf Next week’s Forum deals with
the Problem of Soviet Russia,

and among the speakers on the
CBC broadcast will be Dalhousie’s
Prof. H. L. Stewart. A _ special
film, “Inside Russia’, made by
John Grierson, will be shown at
the Homestead at 9 o’clock, before the broadcast. All members

have been urged to collect a co-ed

in order to bring more feminine
representation at the meetings.

DAL STUDENTS

(Continued from page 1)
Poldini-Kreisler. Liszt’s ‘“Rhapsodie Espagnole’”’ was chosen by
Mr. Van Allen as his contribution
to the evening’s program, and the
brilliant selection was well received,

The remainder of the program
included vocal and instrumental
numbers by students from Mount
St. Vincent, the Halifax Conservatory of Music, the Maritime
Academy of Music, and by the
New Glasgow Community Orchestra, all of which maintained
the Ladies’ Musical Club’s high
standards of musical entertainment for the Halifax public.

LEST WE FORGET

(Continued from Page 6)

“Damn’’, said the officer.
“Come on Clark. Get a move
on’. His voice was hard and

firm. He fumbled for his equipment, adjusted his pack. The
chin-strap of his helmet was damp
and stiff. He had stretched it up
over the front of his helmet. He
had started for the door when he
thought of his pen. He groped
for it, found it, screwed on the
top and put it in his pocket.

He stepped from the cellar into
the rain that lashed at his face,
into the mud that gave with every
step, into the night that was
brightened by explosions and
fires,—forgetting for the moment
the unfinished letter on the ra
tion box in the dark cellar.

Séll Canada’s newest, [astesi-selling Christmas Cards. Exclusive
with REGAL. Sell the 2]-card
feature box for $1, or REGAL'S
fumous “Friendship” box of all
occasion cards. Double Sales!

Introduce REGAL’S wonder
ful new Canadian Scenes Bax.

16 cards by famous Canadian
( | artists, $1.

21 CARD FEATURE ASSORTMENT

REGAL’S new Framed Gift Pictures of avthentic Canadian Scenes are ideal Christmas
Gifts. Sell for $1. Learn the intriguing details.
to SO% clear profit, Write NOW for agent's
REGAL STATIONERY CO. LTD., y
105 Simcoe St... Toronto, Ont. or
163 W. Hastings Si. Vancouver, B.C

are he aoa

 

Fader's Drug Stores

135 HOLLIS STREET
29 COBURG ROAD

Nova Scotia

Halifax

 

eeepc eee ee
EVANGELINE
TEA ROOM

Commonly known as JOE’S
280 Quinpool Road
HALIFAX, N. S.

 
    
  
   
   
 
 
 

~ DANCING

SATURDAY

9 p. m. — midnight

NOVA SCOTIAN
HOTEL

 

Pa ie ‘cu ‘i Pine
ae hapa
Lon

VARSITY VETS

(Continued from page 1)
be attended by her boy friend.
The stipulation was that the escort
be tall and broad-shouldered—to
avoid any unpleasantness with
the beefy boy friend.

The majority of calls, however,
are made for the purpose of hiring baby-sitters, and here the
vets rule supreme. The practical experience gained with their
own offspring, those dear little
spines with a head on one end
and no responsibility on the
other, have made the ‘“DiaperDaddies” of the ‘Triangle Club”
an invaluable aid to the Agency
and to the city of Halifax.

As a new item the Personal
Services Bureau was featured
last Tuesday night by Mr. Graham Allan, on his Veteran’s Affairs Activities Program. The
Herald and Mail ran a detailed
story on the venture, and there is
a rumor prevalent that it will be
used by C.B.C. on a nation-wide
hook-up.

The Dalhousie Gazette takes
this oppotunity of offering to the
undertaking, and it strongly
urges the student body to aid the
boys in their new project by word
of mouth advertising.

Dal-Edgehill Game
(Continued from Page 4)

it 3-2 for Dal, in what was the
best game of the ground hockey
season so far.

Line-up: Joyce Hart, Fran.
Doane, Pat Snuggs, Nancy Jones,
Marg. O’Neil, L. A. Hayes, Pam
Stevens, Jean Mitchell, Laurie
Brown, Pat Godfrey, Joan Myrden, Beth Tilley, Pat MacKinnon.

LITTLE BLACK BOOK

(Continued from Page 3)

haphazardly by others. However,
by dint of much labor, the desired information has finally been
gathered and the Directory will
soon go to press.

The Directory lists the name,
address, telephone number and
faculty of each student, the presidents of the various student organizations, and the work done
in the past and to be done in the
future year by these groups.

We offer congratulations and |

thanks to the editors for the
quality and amount of work they
devoted to their task.

MUSIC, MIRTH

(Continued from Page 3)

graduates are expected to attend
the function arranged by an
Alumni committee, the nucleus of
which includes the Chairman, G.
R. Smith and members, W. D.
Outhit, Gordon B. Cowan, Gerald Redmond and H. R. Wyman.
Don’t Miss It—The Alumni
Smoker—Nov. 18th, at 8.15 in
the Gym. Come and be merry.

CANADIAN ART

(Continued from Page 3)

fax citizens. The Exhibit was
made up by the National Gallery,
and represented many different
types of painting—from a few
done in the spirit of the early
Canadian landscapes to those
thought of as Canadian Art.

During the year, the Associa- .

tion, of which Dalhousie is a
member, plans several other Exhibits—including one on Canadian War Art, the Annual Maritime Art Exhibit, and—of  special interest to Engineers and
Sociologists—an Exhibit of Maritime Town Planning.

S.C. M. PLANS

(Continued from page. 1)
great success. Such a venture,
with the welfare of the students
so wholly at heart certainly
should be.

ity '

FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 15,
EDITOR’S MAIL

(Continued from Page 2)

to the state more power than it
possesses at present. The most
easual student of history realizes that power, once concentrat
ed, is very difficult to re-distri
bute. The group in power tends
to use its power to perpetuate its

system, be it monarchic, socialist —

or capitalistic. It follows that
the more power given a group,
the less likelihood there is of its
voluntary surrender.

Mr. Miller says that our wartime planned economy produced
the greatest industrial ‘boom in
our history. Unfortunately (and
in line with the theme of “Homo
The Sap”) it was the war rather
than government planning which
produced the wave of prosperity.

Mr. Miller quite rightly deplores the inflationary trend.
Paradoxically enough this infla~
tion has, to a great extent, been.
caused by the labor unions, whose.
socialist affiliations are well
known.

Thinking people recognize the.
evils of capitalism. But if we.
are ever to stop the pendulum’s:
swing from one extreme to the
other, those same people must:
face the more disagreeable features of socialism.

JACK MACCORMICK

us

 

 

VELVET

PENCILS ARE

 

   
 
 

This means that
the lead is actually
bonded to the wood.
You can’t buy better
school pencils !

 

 

   
   
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
   
  
 
  
 
  
    
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
 
    
   
 
 
  
   
        
  
 
    
   
  
   
    
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
   
  
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

ix
