 

~~

“a
|
od
.
:
|
Ss
|
at
;
af

 

ai

mH

     

o

CANADA'S

VOL. 78.

OLDEST STUDENT PUBLICATION

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 7, 1947

 

  
   

No, 14

 

 

 

DAAC RATIFIES (ouises —

AMENDMENTS

“A member of the Club wishing to play on a non-Dalhousie team
must first receive the permission of the Managing Committee of the
D. A. A.C. Any member who does not comply with this procedure will
be subject to such penalties as the Managing Committee may decide
to impose’? — this was one of the niain amendments passed at the meet
ing of the D. A. A. C. last Tuesday in the Chem Theatre.

Other amendments were mostly
concerned with the status of
swimming, track, Badminton, Tennis, and Soccer, and the awards
to be made in these sports.

Soccer and Tennis are to be
classed as Minor Sports, while
Badminton, Swimming and Track
are to be Minor Sports which will
permit some members of the teams
to receive Major Awards. All members of these teams, who meet the
attendance requirements in practics and meets will receive Minor
D's, while any member securing
5 points in any one track meet, or
a total of 5 points in all Swimming
Meets in one year will receive
Major D’s. First place in these
points would be worth 5 points,
& points for a second, one for a
third place; 2% points for mem
(Continued on Page 8)

 

 

Forum Feels
Hollywood
Inadequate

Citizen’s Forum got underway
at 8.30 P. M. this Tuesday with
a full programme of movies, radio,
refreshments and discussion. Students and guests alike participated in a lively discussion on the
question “What Are the Movies
Doing to Us?

The group declared by a smal)
majority that they were not satisfied with the movies as they are
presented. It was felt that the
movies should play more on the
intellectual strain and eliminate

Nomination Date

A regular meeting of the
Students’ Council, held Wednesday night in the Homestead, approved Thursday, February 13,
as the date for the Council meeting for the nomination of candidates for the Presidency and VicePresidency of the Council. A Student Forum proposed for
noon on Tuesday. February 18,
to discuss amendments to the
Awards Constitution: and to the
Council Constitution to provide a
method for dealing with tie votes.

Most of the meeting was devotéd to discussion of the Awards
Committee Report. The Constitution of the Progtessive Conservative Study Group was approved, and $50 and $25 voted as a
guarantee to the Mt. Allison
basketball team and to the Publicity Committee respectively.

Was

 

the emotional trend.

The portrayal of crime pictures
is inadequate. At present the
criminal is built up as a hero
throughout the performance until
the final act. Why not make him
a maladjusted, psychological character throughout?

 

DEMENTED RAPTURE REARS ITSELF
AS SADIE HAWKINS RUNS RAMPANT

Co-ed Week! The chance of
the year for Dalhousie’s scores of
buck-toothed, sqnint-eyed, hippy
bepefuls, whose sterling characters and dynamic personalities had
been kept hidden behind forbidd
ing facades all year. At last! What

red-blooded co-ed was going to
miss this golden opportunity?. . .

So, yoicks! and let us away to

scenes of long-awaited triumphs.

The curtain rises on the twilight
advance of the female vultures,
halpless males in tow; they. appear at various points of the campus—the luckier victims in attendance of a Bridge Party in the
Common Room—at least the ladies
will be preoceupied for a time
with the intricacies of a tough
bridge hand. So we leave them
amid murmurs of “Pass”, “Not
at me you don't” and proceed
to the King’s Rink, where to the
strains of the Skaters’ Waltz the
Amazons are gliding over the ice
with their chosen partners; some
are heard to snarl through clenched molars, “How in h- - - does he
manage to walk?” Ah, girls, such
is life in this vale of tears!

But the hour and a half of
torture could not last forever;
Foon the poor victims are Jed to
the slaughter—attempted escape
d= hopeless boys—they, lke the
which can be glossed over lightly

 

Bobby Sox ..... ?

 

mounties, always get their man,
daid or alive. So, to the tune of
a hot juke-box, the terpsichorean
Struggle (when the Gazette gets
hold of a word, kids, they hang
on to it.} hegins. We leave the
scene of anguish—and span the
bridge of time until the next night,
as the substitution of Hedy

...+. 8et booby trap

Lamarr for James Mason has put
the lads into such a good mood
that subsiding after preliminary
wolf-calls, they even yield to the
old ‘custom of “holding hands in
the movie show. when all the
lights ave low", and EV’RYbody’s
happy.
(Continued on Page 8)

d Issue...MAD MOLLS MAUL MALES |

 

THIS WEEK......

@ Pagel. “Cavalcade Of Insult”

@ Page 2. Dalhousie and Halifax.

@ Page 3. Giles President of D. K. S. V. A.
@ Page4. D.A.A.C. Levies $5 Fee on Males
@® Page 5. Dal Downs Santamarians; 9-5.

@® Page 6. Columns; Columns, & Columns

@ Page 7. Hubba Hubba Herald

@ Page 8. Apropos of Nothing

 

D.G.D.S. PRESENTS SPARKLING SHOW

My Mummy Done Ptolemy. ....

 

‘Cavalcade Of Insult’

By LOU COLLINS

Some time ago J picked up an anonymous book on acting called
Letters of An Unsuccessful Actor, (Cecil Palmer, 1923). Apropos of
nohting at all I take the liberty to quote the following as being typical
of the wisdom it contains:

“Art does not thrive on kindness and toleration’’.

‘Don't you think most critics are inflated asses?”

And now, having sighted Polaris, I shall proceed to my witchcraft.

1 wish first to say that I thoroughly enjoyed the Glee Club’s sparkling presentation of the rollicking Kaufman and Hart comedy, The
Man Who Came to Dinner. I also enjoyed myself on Friday night. If
this is realized, I hope that my efforts as a critic (Gk, KRITES-judge)
will not seem pointless.

UNFORTUNATE CHOICE

With regard to the play itself, I must confess that I do not think
that the Glee Club While the
cessful than I had this I attribute in great part to the
Pigot, it is, neverless,
The

Sheridan Whiteside is one that would daunt a veteran professional

chose wisely. play was much more suc
anticipated, and
‘ | cans eee b . ' “A
admirable direction of Mr.-H.,

Lestie rather

beyond the capacity of a university dramatic society. role of
actor; that Lloyd Soper played it well may be taken as a tribute to his
skill as an amateur. And one should mention the matter of censorship.
Somewhere (perhaps from ild John Milton in English 2) I sponged up
the idea that censorship exists in civilized society only where ‘education has failed. The censoring of this play produced some strange results: it suggested what the script remarked broadly; it left in obscure
tepical allusions; it lowered the level of comedy from sophisticated
wise-crack to ‘romantic’ farce; it enabled a middle-aged matron on
Saturday night to turn to her companion and say: “Vicious little play
isn’t it. ... but I like it!’

The Man Who Came To Dinner is based, in part, on fact. The
character Sheridan Whiteside is a caricature of the late Alexander
Woolleott, who was perhaps the most flamboyant personality in American letters during the last quarter century. Woolcott once visited playwright"Moss Hart and cut up much as Whiteside does in the play.*Hart
later, when in the presence of his partner George Kaufman, thanked
his stars that Woollcott had not broken a leg during his visit and so
the play was born. Those ‘who know’ see Noel Coward in Beverly
Carlton, Gertrude Lawrence in Lorraine Sheldon, and not a little of
the zaniness of Harpo Marx in Whiteside’s screwball friend, Banjo.

IRASCIBLE WHITESIDE

The hilarious comedy tells of irascible Sheridan Whiteside who.
while on a lecture tour with his attractive and rather cynical secretary,
is invited to dine at the home of an Ohio family, the Stanleys. He falls
on the ice in front of his host’s home and spends four weeks recuperating as a most irascible, insulting and unwelcome guest. During his
visit he takes over part of the house, greets screwball friends, receives
weird gifts, tries to smash his secretary's love affairs, urges his hosts’
children to leave home, abuses his
Christmas.

nurse, yet goes sentimental over
Finally he is pronounced well, leaves jauntily, slips on the
ice again and returns for another four weeks.
But to my tale.
_

7 . : ,
gi. . : ie 5 amas
& ihe ~frece Of ACVINE: Ne WAS esNEeC
. ‘

Lloyd Soper (Sheridan Whiteside) turned in
ially good on Priday night wher
his enunciation and delivery were superb and his timing excellent. On
(Continued on Page 8&8)

 
_— ee
y A , fi
A ike
i. ae oP a A
“" de ¥ “te e -—
aie! ET, PAG .
; f ; Fs a LPIA SY
is

eres.

Prle

  
    
 

Editor-in-Chief
‘ f AL LOMAS (3-4505)
ales a Be Features Sports
Ne it LAMPERT, P-1 JACK LUSHER . DON HARRIS.
! . Literary News o-Kid Sports
RT MOREIRA LEW MILLER, P-3 FRAN DOANE
Pir ese ise, Proofreader Business Manager
ae DON MORRISON RALPH MacDONALD DON HARRIS
i ie wae Se
at REPORTERS AND CONTRIBUTORS THIS WEEK

 

CANADA'S OLDEST STUDENT PUBLICATION

 

id z - John Pauley, Dave Jamieson, Don MacEacheren, Lou Collins, Ken Boite,
% Mary Lou Christie, Windy O'Neill, Bob Grant, Ukie Velcoff, Joan

  
   
  
    

+

s

‘
r me Mae

é

78

Friday,

DALHOUSIE AND HALIFAX

Dalhousie University should naturally be the centre of culture
and education in Halifax, and yet it enjoys but a small reputation. It
isa fact that universities in smaller towns enjoy a solidarity and local

_Myrden, Buzzie Bowers, Sadie Hawkins.

 

February 7, 1947. No. 14

 

_ mportance not possible for a university in a city; both those in this

  
 
 
 

latter group are able to make themselves known and appreciated by
éitizens” in the proximate area, Dalhousie certainly does not receive

. , “much support or co-oporation from Halifax, Dalhousie is, in fact,

 
  
 
 
  
 

scarcely known in this city.

{te

Although the Dalhousie Glee and Dramatic Society, and the D. A.
A. C. have brought hundreds of Haligonians to Studley, little else has
_ been accomplished. The fact is that Dalhousie University has not

y i » ae | been publicized enough. There is no reason why High School students

  
 
 

from this city should attend Universities out of town,—unless ‘far
‘fields’ are ‘greener’— and yet each year scores emigrate to other Can
‘ : adian Universities, and even to other Maritime Universities.

  
  
  
 
   
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
  

can be sold on Dalhousie.
_-- many civie and cultural activities.

ted versions.

_ Dalhousie.

The Editor,
The Dalhousie GAZETTE,
Dalhousie University.
Re: rehearsal space, pianos.
Sir:
We waste words over issues
which affect few for a short time.
‘MEANWHILE THE DALHOUSIE
ORCHESTRA AND THE
CHORUS HAVE NO SPACE IN
WHICH TO REHEARSE, AND
pes PIANO FOR THEIR USE. I
prepared to defend these
Saiberen. though unable to do
so here.*

| Let me offer some suggestions:
a A practice piano could be
placed, for our use only, in one
of the following, in order of preference, and the place to be made
available to us outside instruction
hours: f(a) The newly vacated
‘machine shop in the Arts Building; (b) The Chemistry Theatre;
(c) Room 19, Science Building.
(2) Am outside entrance to
the Lower Gymn, with a piano
¢ usual complement of

the orchestra and the chorus are

losing the novelty of masculine

eed through walking down by
the present route.

These suggestions by no means

solve the oe but they would
improve the situation, especially

keys and strings. The ladies of

Dalhousie University is now on the eve of launching a huge drive
er building and endowment funds, and the success of this campaign
will depend to a great extent on the co-operation received in Halifax

It would be advantageous if the citizens of Halifax were to realize
that within the environs of their city is located one of the finest universities in Canada. [f and when such an event becomes a reality, Dalhousie
must be ready to assume far-raching responsibilities as the centre for

As the centre of civic activities, the University could make available to the public the use of its knowledge, and could well be an edu- cationally directiv influence in the lives of people who merely hear of
political issues during election campaigns, and who then receive slant
As a cultural centre, Dalhousie could expand on the excellent
efforts of the D. G. D. S., bringing to Halifax citizens a type of art far
more worthy than the run-of-the-mill Hollywood productions.

a As a University, it should be attractive to every youth in Halifax
desirous of an education. No Haligonian student should look to other
Canadian Universities as their Alma Maters.

No effort should be spared in the coming drive to further the name
of Dalhousie University. Dalhousie is of Halifax. Halifax should be of

EDITOR’S MAIL BOX

I({a) .

May I put in a word for onefifth of this reserve fund? It
would buy a fine concert grand
for state occasions now, to be
cherished against the day when we
have an AUDITORIUM in which
to put it, and a faculty of music
producing students fit to play on
it,

Yours respectfully,
GEOFFREY B. PAYZANT.
* (Ed. Note: Mr. Payzant here
refers to the Gazette’s USUAL
Policy of limiting letters to
250 words.)

 

The Editor,
Dear Sir:

May I offer bouquets — the
best on the market — to the entire company behind the production of the ‘Man Who Came to
Dinner” It was well presented,
and each member of the cast did
full justice to the-part assigned.

Bouquets also to the University
staff and the students who organized the University Christian
Conference, and to the Dal Chorus
and Geoff Payzant, and the Dal
Orchestra and Frank Padmore,
which assisted the conference to
its great success,

Also the Harry Zappler for the

(Continued on Page 8)

 

THE DALHOUSIE SaxErTS

News Of The

WEAK

I am sitting in the GAZETTE
office not so long ago, when there
comes a knock on the door, so I
answer it, and who should it be
but a letter for me. So I open it,
with much care so as not to tear
the stamp in case it should come
in useful some day. And what is
this letter, but a very sad and
touching query from a_ certain
young lady. So I sit down on my
typewriter, and write her this
answer, immediately, because it
is so sad and touching a letter —

and also because it is the first one

I have had in many days. It
starts:
Dear —

I am in a very sad state. I
want to send something to a certain someone for Sadie Hawkin's

week, but I don’t know what he
would like. I would like to give
him something to suit his person
ality —-. something simple and
cheap. What would you suggest?

BEFUDDLED.

And this is my answer:
Dear Befuddled —

If you can’t send him yourself
— why not send him a copy of
the latest mystery novel — “The
Christmas Thief’ or “Get Your
Hand Away From My Stocking.”

(Heh! Heh!)
> > = =

MAYBE YOU DIDN'T NOTICE
DEP’T;:— at the corner of Morris
and Soutth Streets some people
are digging a hole. This hole
is supposed to be the foundation
for the new Arts Bldg. — BUT—
it isn’t NO! It is really just a
hole. Several members of a well
known local institution were put
there by the Occupational Therapy
Dep’t._and for all the DEP’T
knows — they are there yet. But
—One day civic officials noticed
them, and decided that this was
getting too deep for them — and
decided to fill it in. Already
much more rock has been filled in
than was filled owt, and truck
convoys are daily arriving from

all parts of the province — and
P. E. I. — with more rock.
Citizens are worried — as indi
eated by many letters to the local
press. Notably — the letter ‘CG’
which has so far appeared
1757883 times, adding to the confusion, The GAZETTE has taken over the situation, and will
offer as a consolation prize, the
whole hole, for whoever sends in
the best solution. Entries must
be accompanied by parent or
guardian, and must. NOT be
typed on more than two sides of
the paper.
PLEASE GO ON READING:
REPORT OF THE WEAK: The
25rd Annual Inter-collegiate
Poultry Contest was held at
Purdue, with a score of American
Universities participating. H-m
-m-m-m. I guess all the
chickens on the campus don’t
wear skirts nowadays. You know
—there may be something in this.
I move that the D. A. A. C. take a
Dal chicken team UNDER ITS
WING, and arrange meets with
local chicken farms. This would
put the goal posts back in use.
Can’t you just imagine how sweet
the little biddies would look,
roosting there nightly, resplendant in their Gold and Black
sweaters. Its good advertising,
too. Can't you hear the resounding whistles when the team
SCRATCHES at the mark
“Look at the drumstick on that”
or “What a wishbone” — and the
audience EGGING them on with
cheers. This would be good —
as chickens are very EGGOTISTICAL, anyhow.
PLEASE GO ON READING:
(Continued on Page 8)

od betbae

- February in any Maritime school. Special $600.00 scholarships for Hon
 

 

 

_ Friday, February 7, 1947 »

“Boy oh boy .. am | ever ready for a Sweet Cap!” .

SWEET CAPORAL CIGARETTES

“ The purest form in which tobacco can be smoked”

 

| is ==> say SCHWARTZ |

and be sure!
|
|

 

It was a good slogan in war. It is now a good slogan in peace:
“Say Schwartz and be Sure”.
that you may be assured of the incomparable Schwartz quality
in Coffee, Spices, Peanut Butter, Jelly Powder, Baking Pow
der and Dried Fruit,

W.H. Schwartz & Sons Ltd.

Canada’s Oldest Coffee and Spice House
Founded in Halifax in 1841

We urge it for your protection

 

 

  

= ’

MARVEN’S BISCUITS

   
  
  
  

 

FAVORITES SINCE 1906 .
Moncton, N. B.
Halifax St. John Quebec Montreal

  

Dalhousie University

Halifax, Nowa Scotia

 

Largest Staff, Libraries and Laboratories in the Maritimes
The Faculty of Arts and Science
enjoys international distinction

 

Degrees of: Diplomas in:
.Bachelor of Arts Engineering ng
‘Bachelor of Science Education
Bachelor of Commerce Music
Bachelor of Music Ph

armacy
Master of Arts Hospital Pharmacy
Master of Science Mining Geology

Pre-Professional Courses =
Honour and Advanced Courses in many departments
im the B. Sc. course about $210.00 a year
in the B. A. Course average about $160.00 a year
Many valuable scholarships, on entrance and through the courses
Regional Scholarships awarded on the result of examinations held in

Inclusive Fees

our courses in Classics, Mathematics, Modern Languages and History.
The Professional Faculties

Law, Medicine, Dentistry, enjoy an unexcelled reputation.

Residences
Women students live in Shirreff Hall — one of the fi
Residences in the Dominion. Residence is provided to oe See case
in the University Men's Residence. Other men students live in either

 

of two affiliated institutions or in selected
Special accommodation is provided for erie eo homes.

students,

Meals for all students are available at
ye For full information write

nd single ex-service

the University.
to THE REGISTRAR.

 
“4

~

“

 

ao
: = _s a _o, Ez a
es : = a r

 
 

.... EVERYTHING BUT

 

Cathedral Barracks Vets
Entertain Polio Children

The bright young faces of patients at the Nova Scotia Polio Clinic
beamed with delight as they listened to the blended voices of about
twenty Dalhousie Student Veterans who, after pooling their resources
to purchase gifts, had taken an hour of their Sunday afternoon to enter
tain the children.

Moved by the noble spirit which
enriches life, the thought which
makes fortunate people think of
the less fortunate, the student
veterans who live in the converted
barrack buildings know as Cathedral Barracks, decided to share
their lives and talents with the
children in the nearby Polio Clinic.

On Sunday afternoon, led by
Georre Thorne and “Fuzz” Foster, the vets filed into the Clinic.
Gleeful shouts destroyed the hospital-like silence as the donors of
good-will distributed their gifts.
The excitement aroused in the tiny
hearts of the children was shared
by the vets who sat on the beds
talking and laughing with their
little friends. Evidence of the
fact that most of the vets had
visited before was that they knew
most of the children by name.

Two musicians in the group,
Maynard Taylor and Bob Smith,
had brought their guitars, and
around this pair an extemporanous choir was formed which moved from bed to bed fulfilling the
childish requests. ;

“Sing ‘Old MacDonald’ again,”
asked eight-year old Hector MacDonald, and without hesitation the
vets obeyed, accompanied by the
shouts and laughter which were
greatest following the animalsounds of the song. The hardest
heart could not but be softened
by the sights and sounds and the
tender affection given and returned in the ensuing hour. Song
after song was requested and
sung, and it was with difficulty
that the entertainers terminated

Newman Hall
Sought At Dal

Feb. 2. At today’s Newman Club
Communion breakfast, Msgr. W.
J. Burns told the gathering that
before the end of the year a hall
might be provided for club activities.

A centre for meetings and other
purposes is greatly needed, and
this would be a great boon to the
society, as delegates who visited
Newman Hall at U. -N. B. have
Feen,

Msgr. Burns spoke of the early
beginnings of the Newman Club
activities and of those who were
eesoviated with it when it was
formed in 1918.

A short business session was
held during which menibers heard
that study clubs are to be organined and that outside speakers will
address the club at Various inter
_ vals during the remainder of the

year.

a

=

their visit.

With shouts of “We'll be back
next week,” fighting against a
show of their tonched emotions,
the ambassadors of good left the
elinic: and if they felt that they
had done something good their
thoughts were insufficient, for
their deed was monumental.

Dalhousie may well be proud of
these men, for it is in the hearts of
people like Thorne, Foster, Taylor,
Smith, Eugene Merry, Paul Harding, “Boots” Brown, Gerald Hawkins and their associates that we
may look for the good that makes
life worth living. In their deed
they have shown that they possess
the attributes of good and greatness. What more_can be asked
of man?

Toronto Debaters

At Dal -- Feb. 14:

On Friday, February 14, at
7.30 in the Munroe Room, a debating team from Osgoode Hall
Toronto on the resolution “that
legislative powers of the provinces be transferred to the Dominjon and the provinces be retained
only as administrative units of.
the Dominion government.” The
Dal team of Gord Black and Peter
O’Hearn will argue the negative
of the proposition.

This debate, which promises
to be one of the most interesting
held at Dal in some time, will be
judged by Judge Archibald of
the Nova Scotia Supreme Court,
Mr. Stanfield, a member of a local legal firm and D.M. Mackay
president of the local Board of
Trade.

Tt is hopedithat Dalhousians
will turn out in force to support
their team. Remember:
eeisenth The Time - 7.30,Fri., Feb.14

The Place - Munro Room,

Forrest Building.

‘The Event - A Debate be
tween Dal and Osgoode Hall

Deadlines for filing of application forms for summer employment for vets have been postponed
from February 5th to 15th. Forms
may be cbtained from the D. V.
A. Counsellors Office. Information
may be derived from the General
Duties Chairman, Neil MacLean,
Phone 3-9879.

Feb. 10 at S p. m.—Premier
Angus L. Macdonald will speak
to a meeting of the Canadian
University -Liberal Association.
All students are invited to attend.

CANADA'S

A

 

   

OLDEST STUDENT PUBLICATION

 

I.S.S. WEEK
IS PLANNED

Feb, 1 — An organizational
meeting of the Dalhousie I S §
Committee was held this afternoon at which Al Lomas was
elected to represent Dalhousie
University at the national conference to be held Feb. 22-23 in
Toronto.

To plan the functions for the
International Student Service
Week set tentatively for the last
of February, a programme cemmittee of Miss Terry MacLean,
Ralph MacDonald and Lew Miller
was appointed.

Volunteers who are willing to
work hard for at least three
weeks are requested to give their
name to Lew Miller at the
GAZETTE Office.

Frats Should
Be Approved

The last debate in the semifinal round of this year’s InterFaculty Debating series was held
last Tuesday evening in Room 3
of the Arts Building. The victorious Arts & Science (II) team
of Don Harris, Lew Miller and
Bob Kaill upheld the affirmative
of the resolution “THAT DALHOUSIE SHOULD SANCTION
THE PLACE OF FRATERNITIES
IN CAMPUS LIFE.” They were
opposed by the Arts & Science (J)
team of Art Moreira, Jack MacCormack and Whitney Dalrymple.
Chairman of the debate was Jim
Sannders, while the judces were
Professor Mercer, Mr. Farr and
Clint Havey.

Speakers for the affirmative
held that fraternities were very
helpful to the out-of-town students in that they aided in accustoming such students to college
life. Fraternities, they contended, build up college spirit and
make for the improved scholastic
standing of the individual members of the frat. The negative
speakers contended that fraternities were discriminatory, and led
to a break-down of college spirit
through the formation of small
“select” groups.

 

Tom Giles, New

 

Vets President

Chosen to guide the Dalhousie-Kings Student Veterans Association through its affairs for the year 1947-48, Tommy Giles, ex-parachutist law student, heads the following slate of officers as president:
vice-president, Bob Mitchell; secretary, Ralph McKnight; treasurer,
Irving Millie; general duties chairman, Neil MacLean; and housing

chairman John Patton.

Mr. ©. Henderson Smith, retiring general duties committee
chairman, outlined the work of
his group during the past term,
stating that the ground work for
summer employment had heen
well laid. For all the veterans
who applied last summer jobs
could have been procured;—the
sad part of the affair being that
too many were looking for a
“high pay-little work’ combinatjon. This, of course, was a ricliculous attititude to assume since
jobs of ANY form are more or
less difficult to obtain. Forms
are being circulated throughout
the campus (Gym store, Gazette
Office, etc.) and all veterans desiring summer employment are
asked to fill them out and turn

 

TOMMY GILES
The popular vets chief for 19478, a
served as @ Captain in a Forward
Observer unit of the Royal Artillery with the 6th Airborne Divieion in North West Europe.

second year law student,

— —

them in to the general duties
committee as soon as possible in
order to facilitate the work of
the committee.

A general picture of the housing situation was given by
Tommy Giles. Mulgrave Park,
where the married vets and their
families are holding out, has developed into quite a_ thriving
little community, with- ping-pong
and badminton as the main recreational features, with pro
(Continued on Page 8)

CCUF Hears
Fred Young

Jan. 30 — “Out of one hundred men taken at the age of
twenty-five you will find that in
forty years, one is wealthy, three
are well-to-do, six are stil] working, thirty-six are dead, and fifty-four are dependent; and this
is the result of the system which.
we glibly call ‘free enterprise’,”
said Mr. Fred Young, C. C. F.
provincial organizer, at a meeting of the C. C. U. F. at Dal.

In a historical outline Mr.

Young pointed out that in period-'

ic ¢yeles of the past the people
have found themselves in the position of having their freedom restricted by .minorities with expanding power, and “This,” he
said, “is what we face today.”

A programme of research was
outlined by Gordon Black,. president of the C. C. U. F., which includes Child Welfare, Social
Legislation, Lumber, Mining, and’
Fishing ¥ndustries. Research
groups have been organized at
Shirreff Hall, Pine Hill and the
Law School.

Reds Fear Atom Bomb—Randolph Churchill

Jan. 23 — U. of Manitoba —
Highlighting a vitriolic criticism
of Russia and Communism,
Randolph Churchill declared;
“The Red Army would roll forward temorrow to the shores of
the Atlantic were not the atom
bomb in safe keeping in the
United States.”

Under the sponsorship of the
University of Manitoba’s Public
Relations committee, Mr. R.
Churchill spoke before an audience of some 2,000 persons on
the topic “Europe Today.” “Few
topics are “of more vital concern
to the world today that the situa
tion in Evsrone.” he said. A
shortage of food and other necessities and the great physical

eombine to make
Europe an unhappy place. But
worse is the moral collapse
brought about by four or five
years of enemy occupation which

destruction

left behind a terrible legacy of
hatred and which divided friend
from friend, family from family.”

Mr. Churchill, looking discouragihgly at the peace, declared,
“Today, twenty months after the
war in Europe we have only an
The Big Four
hae decided to dominate the peace
treaties and the smaller nations
It is hard

for Europeans to draw much en
uneasy armistice.

have not been heard.

couragement from this picture.”
“Many of us who wish to show

that something has heen done
point to Nuremburg, I would hke
to expose the dirty, squalid,
shameful lie,” he eontinued
scathingly, ‘that has heen pronorated all over the world that a
treat precedent has heen estabished, that these men were hang- .
ed because they made war. They
were banwed because they lost the

war. [If a precedent had been

established why wasn’t Stalin in:
the dock? Stalin fought five
wars against little Finland, helpless Poland and Esthonia, Latvia
and Lithuania, — of course they
don’t hang him — because he
won his wars.” .

Little confidence was expressed by Mr. Churchill in the UNO
stating that it could not possibly
the great
“As a place to air opin
stop a war between
powers.
ions or serve as an amusement for
the public, it might have a function,” he conceded.

Referring to the Communist
venture, Mr. Churchill believed
that the Russians should confine
their experiment to their own terrinories and we to our. ;

In a question period which Followed, Mr. Churchill declared that
we should not worry ebouf ilittle
dictators like Frances ahd<Pbron.
‘Franco could not make a motorbike, much less an atom bomb.”

 
 

   
     
 

2 DALHOUSIE GAZETTE Friday, February 7, 1947

IES $5 FEE ON MEN

NEXT WEEK Refuse To Draw On Reserve

A special $5.00 will be levied on all male students of Dalhousie,
Hockey — as members of the Dalhousie Amateur Athletic Club, retroactive to
Feb. 10—Law vs. Eng. October 1st, 1946, as a result of a motion passed at a regular meet
—Frosh vs. Pine Hill ing of the D. A. A. C. last Tuesday in the Chem Theatre. The resoFéb. 11—Dents vs. Pharmacy lution was introduced as an alternative to drawing funds from the

—Kings vs. Meds. Council sinking Fund in order to purchase badly-needed athletic equipFeb 14—A & Sc. vs. Pharmacy ment,

—Commerce Ys. Eng. Following the regular business of the meeting, when several conBasketball — stitutional amendmnts were passed (listed on Page One of this issue)
Feb. 10—Law vs. Dents the topic of buying new equipment was raised from the floor as general

—Meds vs. Frosh business arising out of the Students’ Forum decision to refer the matter

  

 

 

On The
SIDELINES

BY DON HARRIS

    
 

 

Feb. 13—Commerce vs. A & Se.

to the D, A. A. C.

> + Bort in every issue, and it is a great feeling to be able to have Daly tia Vinate! wi. Cosnmescs wok he “nuh Gk huplie emai ae
but praise for an athletic organization such as has been set up a Se ' It was originally planned) to
int this field of ee ern tne renee Wencey S6 CNIb OEE | ; sshrhiine wae akties Sree ar discuss several matters of vital
reme gx 5 ’ 2 ;
dance of literary bouquets being passed around to such persons as NOTICE eral older students from the pro- importance, ineluding athletic

P hysical Director John MacCormack, and Interfaculty Managers Frank
and Bob Knickle, but for anyone participating in, or following
the progress of, these interfac leagues plus badminton, not enough

_ eredit ean be given to these individuals.

Equally deserving of credit, although not in the limelight in this
field, are those members of the Varsity squads and others who turn out
‘to referee these contests. These boys give up their meal hours two
and three times a week to handle games, not counting the ones they
miss to attend senior practices, and they receive, in payment, fifty
cents a match, plus lots of abuse. The referees in Interfaculty sport

are providing excellent service to their university, above and beyond
the call of duty, if one is permitted to wax lyrical for the moment, and

the results are most favourable.

Every faculty is turning out in increasing numbers for every contest, despite the odd hours at which some games are scheduled, and the
show of spirit demonstrated in this way seems to prove the lie to claims
that spirit at Dal is non-existent, albeit that it may be misdirecled.
Perhaps we are all wron—but it has taken Interfaculty Sport to make
the issue clear. Asterngthening of Interfaculty Sport is, apparently,

Students are asked to discon:
tinue the practice of taking short

cuts across grassed areas of the
Campus.

D.G.A.C

SPORT REVIEW

On returning to aollege in
October, we were met by Mrs.
Ruth Watt of Welland, Ont., new
Phys. Ed. Instructress, and from
then on, D. G. A. C. activities
rolled along at a great rate. A
ground hockey team was picked,
and proceeded to clean up the

 

fessional faculties protested vehemently against the use of this
money for such a purpose as outlined at the meeting.

It was argued by these members that it was unfair for the
present Council to spend money
accumulated by other Councils, a
point which was hotly contested
by several ardent supporters of
the equipment-buying faction.
They felt that immediate action
was required and that the situation dictated the action recommended by the Forum. A motion
was brought down favoring the
use of $2500 from the sinking
Fund, but was defeated handily,
due to the predominance of pro
‘equipment and funds for inter
faculty sport, but these matters
were postponed until a later date,
due to the poor attendance.

Intramural
Boxing Meet
Next Week |

The Dalhousie Boxing Group
under the patient and champion
coaching of Jack MacKenna, a
pupil of the old school of the art
of pugilism, together ‘with the
able and ready assistance of Mess
” the right way to build up college spirit—I guess at Dal we have put unofficial championship by winn- Petit elu dontn rs. John MacCormack, Ron Wa!
the cart before the horse, in previous years. ing 4 out of 5 games with Acadia, : lace and Allan O’Brien, is devel
Talking about college spirit reminds us of a rather touchy prob- Edgehill and H. L. C. The above-mentioned motion oping by leaps and bounds into a

lem which now onfronts the Conncil, although they may be unaware At the same time, the tennis was then brought forward and team of hardhitting, cool-headed,

1 of it, as yet. As a result of the propaganda stirred up in last year’s team made a clean sweep in the passed by a bare majority. scientific pugilists, who will have

re elections, a Spirit Committee was organized this year to handle all Maritime Intercollegiate Tourna- This didn’t actually happen, quite a lot to say about who is

a student publicity, both on and off the campus. During the first term, ment, with Joyce Hart and Nancy the levying of $5 per male stu- going to take the Intercollegiate
Ma everything was milk and honey, with the committee doing a fine job Jones carrying off he honors, dent, but it could easily have, at championship this year.

in all departments. The badminton team has also the D. A. A. C. meeting, since the On the 12th of February, »

 

 

 

 

 

7 But, came the reyolution!—and the second term!—and little or been successful. It is as yet un- huge number of 26 STUDENTS, number of bouts will be staged in
no publicity of any kind; no attempt to arouse the slumbering intel- defeated, after having played two including the Chairman, were the Lower Gym, starting early in
lectual body of students to an interest in events in extracurricular games with Stad., and one with present at the meeting. the evening. These bouts will he
sphere; no fervent pleas from parched lips, exhorting the last ounce of Truro. The swimming team has Surely, out of a total of over intra-university and anyone who
support, as was done last term—nothing—only the slightest indications been practising regularly, and is 1400 males present on the Dal has not been associated with the
of life in the Old Boy, yet, shown by a spasmodic twitch, which pro- looking ahead to a meet at U. N. campus, more than 26 are inter- regular group in the past, but
duced Glee Club signs in store and tram windows, and a few scattered B., and possibly some invitation ested in the future of athletics at who has done som eboxing and
signs put up for the Acadia game, on the day of the game (plus signs meets elsewher. Dalhousie. If not, then some bright woud like to participate in the
for the St. Mary’s game, one day prior to the match). Basketball started with Inter. "CU! Should turn up at the next coming bonts, is asked to get in

___ Is this to be the whole story, with a sad ending, of what was de- 6)... matches, the Seniors coming regular meeting of the D. A. A, C. touch with the Boxing Manager
stined to be the birth of new life at Dal? If so, WHY? Can it be that .. 4. tons After Xivua, the tennis and railroad something on this Jim Cruickshanks, or the Physical
the persons in charge are incompetent? Perhaps, but their efforts last .,med Pat Flenn of Halifax “2° ‘nroush the meeting. [t Instructor within the next week.
term seem to belie this statement. Can it be that they bit off more .. Low woach. Their playing is would serve the student body All who are interested in the
than they could chew, that their eyes were bigger than their stomachs? steadily improving, and at pres- — eee fistic art are invited to attend
Again, we need only look back on last fall, to find that we still have 14 4, ay nid tn: the Heidi of She Sede ® Wins- these bouts. Everything possible
no satisfactory answer. MITTEE ARE Senior City League Series. Inter- ris 1 is being*done to provide a most
7 CAN Tf BE TEAT THE MEMBERS OF pete eapentel ae AR collegiate games start this month. The concluding games of the (Continued on Page 8)
DOING TOO MANY OTHER THINGS, IN AN Archery and ping pong were a bit Dal Girls’ singles badminton  —--eeemmmmmme
Persp one: ORETES: TOO MANY. ‘TIAL ONE—THE a eters Coir. late in starting, but now that In- tournampnt were completed re- :

‘DO SUSTICE TO THE MOST ESSENTIAL ' terclass tournaments are in sight, cently, with Miss Nita Sederis em- Fader $ Drug Stores

MITTEE? attendance has picked up consider-_ erging as Girls’ Singles Champion.

Woe feel that the Council made an excellent move in establishing ably. Judging by the results up to The four semi-finalists were: Nits 29 COBURG ROAD

the Committee, and it is not fair to thmselves, or to the students of gata Dp. G. A. C. should make a Sedeils. Peeey fandie. Winnie —_ a

Dal, that the project should die because it was not given a fair trial. p55 showing in the forthcoming - Wad dell aid Fea eee S 135 HOLLIS STREET

‘It is not too late for the members of this Committee to make amends [ntercollegiate events. Bemal tale: Rundle detent 63 alifax Nova Scotia

for their present failings, if they make a legitimate, sincere effort to ‘Waddell — F 11-8. 6-11, 192-9:

t results, and sacrifice a little glory, and personal interest, for an ; , aes z 1

| ideal which they had earlier proclaimed vociferously, from one end of ns ns ao Rowers GH, EVA NGE LINE

Dal to the other, as one of the requirements for successful campus life. C ASINO Finals: c ederis defeated Rundle TEA ROOM

Let’s practice what we preach! ! ! —6-11, 11-8, 11-6. Commonly known as JOE’S
f AN ODEON THEATRE Plans are now being made for 280 Quinpool Road
: a Girls’ doubles tournament. HALIFAX, N. S.

| Corsages ae eos Se cern “Heat Merchants Since 1835”

tiened by ROSBDALE 6 SC a,

Rarer d and C Limited

speaks eloquent volumes The Strange . LuNard an ompany, t

of tenderness and love,
Green Lantern Woman’’ Oe * SOFT COAL

| , FUEL OIL

The Sign of a Geod with Heddy Lamarr, George

   
    

Meal.

Limited’

UR/ERIES
io ‘paRRIN JT HALIFAX

 

 

Saunders, Louis Hayward

 

OIL BURNING EQUIPMENT

HALIFAX, N. S.

 

DARTMOUTH, N. S.

 

DAL Vs. Mt. A. 
 

DAL GYM SATURDAY 7.00 P M

 

 
  

 

i

i
=

     

ae. > J 1
— ve ie ee, uw a aSOAT.

 

< Churchill Smith Paces

Tiger Win With 4 Goals

_

The Dalhousie Tigers were

strong in all departments Wednes
day afternoon at the Arena as
they swept to a 9-5 win over St.
Mary’s College. Six straight goals
in the first half of the first period
was the margin of victory for the
Dalhousians, and although St.

Mary’s got several of them back

before the stanza was over, the
Tigers were never in real danger.
Dave Churchill-Smith, with four
goals, provided the principle offensive power for Dal., and Rowlie
Frazee and Windy O'Neill were
standouts on a strong defence.
Timothy, in goal for the Tigers,
was one of the standout performers of the game, and at times rose
to spectacular heights.

The first period produced eleven
goals, Dalhousie getting seven of
them. Wide open hockey was the
rule, and the goaltenders were
fishing rubber out of their nets
as fast as the forwards could faceoff. The first three goals of the
game were scored by Dalhousie
in one minute and two seconds.

The second period produced
eight penalties, with the Tigers
being hardest hit. The principle
fracas came shortly after Bob
Murphy was injured in a scrimmage behind the Dal cage, with
Windy O’Ne$ll taking exception

\ to the actions of Keddy of the

Santamarians. In the latter part
of the period a penalty-shot was
awarded to St. Mary’s. Timothy

made a spectacular save on Hughie
Campbell’s shot, and because the
effort was unsuccessful, Reid
served a two-minute penalty for
Dalhousie.

The third period produced
sound defensive hockey on the
part of the Tigers. Dave Churchill-Smith sank his fourth goal,
the only score of the period. An
admonition to cease the rough
and tumble by referee Reg Beazley at the beginning of the period
curbed tempers and there were
ni penalties in the final twenty

 

SUMMARY:
Firat Period.

1. Dalhousie—Crosby (Frazee)
5.08.

2. Dafhousie—Churchill-Smith
(Brown) 5.17.

3. Dalhousie—Knickle (O'Neil,
Brown) 6.10.

4. Dalhousie—Brown. 8.29.

5. Dalhousie—Reid. 10.18.

6. Dalhousie—ChurchillSmith, 11.02,

7. St. Mary’s—Larilee (Campbell, McGillvray) 12.26.

8. St. Mary’s—McCoombs
MacManus, Feron) 15.15.

9. Dalhousie—Churchill-Smith
(O'Neill) 16.37.

10. St. Mary’s—Larlee
Gillvray) 19.30.

11. St. Mary’s—Campbell (Keddy) 19.30.

(Me
Penalty—Crosby (holding) 1901.

(Continued on Page 8)

DAL “B” TEAM WINS 26-19

Dal Intermediates downed the
Acadia representatives 26-19 in a
dull affair played in the Dal Gym
prior to the Senior, game, las
Mondayfl The shooting of both
squads was poor and both teams
indicated a definite lack of practice, as exhibited by the many
passes which went the way of all
flesh, astray.

The first half was a _ closely
contested affair, whth the haif
ending 9-9, neither outfit showing
much scoring power. Dal scored
2 baskets and made good on 5
fouls in 13 attempts. Acadia scored 3 field goals and registered on
3 out of 10 tries.

The sceond half featured a

little better brand of ball with
Dal holding a slight edge in play,
outscoring their opponents 17-10.
Lloyd Algie sparkplugged the attack with 3 baskets in this half,
and played a strong defensive
game for Dal.

Algie and Jim Morrow were
high scorers for Dal, scoring 6
points each, while Boutlier countered 6 for Acadia in this lowscoring contest.

Dal: Palnick 2, Rosenfeld 4
Hart 2, F. Rogers 1, Algie 6, McKelvey 2, Morrison, Tanner 3,
Morrow 6.

Acadia: Cade, Simmonds 2

Eisenhauer, Robertson 4, Machim
4, Boutilier 6. Harriott 5, Mosher.

 

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

ROUNDUP

Congratulations to the D. G. D.
S. for a top amateur performance
of a difficult play, “The Man Who
Came To Dinner’, I’m glad I went
the first night and saw the uncut version, I’m broad-minded—
think about them all the time. The
play has an extremely thin plot
and if the sex and vulgarities were
taken out of the dialogue, it would
go over with a resounding thud.
Each ribald line was greeted with
a@ spontaneous chorus of giggles
by the large delegation from the
Hall, to whom, the “word” had
been passed. All the cast certainly
worked hard on the production
but everyone agrees that little
Ukie Velcoff put in the greatest
effort. Besides learning his lines,
it is reported that he faithfully
spent two hours every day, in the
gym, exercising with dumbells, to
enable him to carry a larger member of the cast from one side of
the stage to the other.

The numerous members of the
faculty in attendance, seated in
the first few rows, had great difficulty suppressing loud guffaws
at some of the more risque lines—
proving that there is still some
spark left in the old boys. When
Jefferson staggered in (contrary
to regulations) with the smell of
lilac lotion on his breath, one of
the professors was heard to exelaim, “Ah, he did that well, but
of course he should, I saw him
practising it, last week, on his way
home from a frat party.” All
kidding aside, the play was well
done, due to a grand effort by
everyone connected to it, and provided an excellent evening of en
trtainment.
" cn * ~

There was a large attendance
at play, on Friday, caused, mainly, by the’ presence of most of
the student body. On Saturday
night there was a much smaller
crowd. In a city, the size of Halifax, the flovers of the theatre
should be fighting for tickets.
The blame, for the fact that it
isn’t so, can be laid to poor publicity. Those in charge apparently
think that the only medium for
publicizing, is sticking insipid
cards in street cars.

I suggest that the job of pub
(Continued on Page 8)

AXMEN UPSET TIGER HOOPSTERS 40-37

In the most exciting game played at the Dal
gym this year, an
Acadia University quintet barely
managed to sque<« @ze out a 40 to
$7 victory over
their ancient rivals, the Dalhous
 

je Tigers. The game featured
speed, rugged play and smart ballhandling, especially on the part
of the “Axemen.” It was the
second straight defeat for the Ken
Chisholm-coached Bengals in Intercollegiate competition, as they
had f-~merly lost out to St. F. X.
in Antigonish.

The game started off in rugged
style, a characteristic which it
held paul at, Dal went into an
early 3-0 lead on a foul shot and
8 field goal by Morrison and Farquhar respectively. Bailey and

Allen roared back for the Axemen
with two quick field goals, Cameron added two points on foul
shots and Acadia went ahead 53. Thereafter the lead changed
hands several times. With only 3
minutes left to play in the half,
and trailing 17-13, Dal began to
click as Giffen, Farquhar and
Dunlop rolled in three straight
field goals without a reply from
Acadia to give the T’--rs a close
19-17 lead at the whistle.

In the second half Dal started
off strongly and with field goais
by Pritchard, Dunlop and Farquhar increased their lead to 26
19. At this point Acadia came
back to life with Allen, Bailey,
end Cameron combining on beautiful plays ‘v pile up 12 points
while Dunlop countered with field
goals for Dal. With six minutes
left to play and the score deadlocked at 35-all, Bailey dropped

in a beautiful
field goal from
the “bucket”’,

MacPherson added a foul shot
and Cam¢dron
ended the scoring for Acadia
when he broke
away to make it
40-35.

Dal fought hard in the dying
minutes, but Acadia “ragged” the
ball beautifully and the best the
Tigers could do was one field goal
by Alex Farquhar.

“Foo” MacPherson played an
outstanding game at guard for
the Axeman while Allen and Bailey
sparked their attack. Captain Blair
Dunlop, Dal’s high scorine guard,
was the pick of the Ticers.

ACADIA: Allen 13; Bailey 10;
Demont 2; Poole 2; Cameron 7;
McNeil, Irving 3; MacPherson 3.

DAL: Farquhar 12; Creighton,
Morrison 4; Kelley 4; Levine, Dunlop 10; Pritchard 2; Giffen 5.

 

 

TIGERS DOWN SANTA MARIANS 9-5

CAMPUS INTERFAC NEWS

Hockey

TEAM STANDING
SECTION “A"
PW bh T Pts
Meds 4 6 <A‘ 8
Eng. 83810 6
Law ES ae
Kings 42 2 06 4
Commerce a sah 8. @
: SECTION “B”
Pine Hill or 6 SC cir’
Pharmacy € 23. 2 6
A. & Se. as. ae See
Frosh oS & 8 ie 2
Dents os |os
MEDS 4—COM. 1
Meds maintained their unde
feated streak, trimming Commerce
4-1 in a contest played at the
Arena, Friday, leaving Commerce
still in search of their first win.

Scoring for the Meds were
Allen, Auld, Moreside and Thorpe
as their scoring puch was wellspread. The lone Commerce
marker was fired by Brown.

Meds: Moffat, Cox, Auld, Vair
Thorpe, Moreside, Allen, Deacon
Miller, Giffen, Hill, Roy.

Pharmacy 6—Frosh 3

Pharmacy continued their drive
for Sectino B honors in the
Interfac Hockey League, on Monday, at the Arena, when they defeated Frosh 6-3. Morris was the
top scorer of the contest, collecting 4 goals and 2 assists for
Pharmacy, with Johnson and
Stallard scoring the other counters.

Crosby was the Frosh star
registering all 3 of their counters
in the contest, on unassisted
efforts.

Pharmacy: Mahoney, Reno, Van
Wart, Sheeby, Emenan, Merry
Johnson, MacQuarrie, Stallard
McKinnon, Morris, Henderson.

A’ & Sc. 5—FROSH 3

Arts and Science first string
led the way to a 5-3 victory over
Frosh in a Friday fixture of the
Interfaculty Hockey League. Morrison was high scorer with 2
pointers, others for Arts & Se
coming from the sticks of Nicholls
and McGinnis.

Reid, Gregg and Crosby collected singletons for Frosh. Clean
agressive piay from both sides
made it anybody’s game till the
final whistle.

Jack Lusher also was on the
ice during the game, a puck rolling off his stick into the Frosh
net. It was counted as an Arte
and Science goal. (As yet it is not
certain who Lusher was playing
for, since he may have thought
he was in a Bull Fight).

Pine Hill 5—Dents 1

Holy Terrors came through with
another win on Friday, downing
Dents 5-1. The “Pines” attacked
continually and only the defensive
work by Pentz and A. V, MacDonald held them to 5 goals.
Hinch, in the Dent nets, was also
a standout.

Hamilton played his usual goor
game for Pine Hill and scored 2
goals. Mumford, Sharp and Smith
collected the other three. Dent
lone tally was scored by Sid McNee.

FROSH 61—A & Sc. 31

The rapidly improving Frosh
squad came through with their
second straight victory when they

 

Page Five

 

Basketball

TEAM STANDING

Pp W. Li Phe.
Medicine th) ee 14
Engineers e Of Sere
Law 5 4 1 8
Frosh G: o Me BS 6
Arts & Se. 7! sete 4
Commerce 6 1 6 2
Dentistry ee eee 9

HIGH SCORERS

 

GP. Pts,
Jim Morrow 7 108
Gerald McCurdy 7 80
Frank Rogers 6 78
Ken MacKenzie 7 70
Don Rogers 7 65
Mason MacDonald 8 59
Reg Saunders 8 50

FROSH 49—DENTS 30

Frosh came through with their
second victory of the season when
they defeated the luckless Dental]
squad 49 to 30.

MacDonald led the Frosh at
tack with il field goals and 4
foul shots to pile up 26 points,
D’Arey and Peters were the pick
of the Dents.

Dents: Cook ~ 2; D’Arcy 11:
Peters 14, Debinsky 2; Banks,
Pentz, Gaum.

Frosh: Tanner 4; Saunders 2:
Wilson 8; MacDonald 26; Him.
melman 4; Carson 5; Stevens.

LAW 34—ENG. 32
Law continued their high-flying
pace at the top of the Interfac
Basketball League standing when
they barely managed to edge out
Trites, Bell, and “Foo” Grant
the Engineers 34 to 32.
“carried the mail” for the embryq
lawyers while Don Eldridge and
Jim Morrow were once again out
standing for the ‘“boilermakers’’
Law: Trites 12; Matthews 4:
Bell 11; “Foo” Grant 7; Wilson.
Engineers: D. Rogers 6; Eldridge
12; MacMillan, Norman, Morrow
10; Bauld 2; MacWillams 2.

A & Sc. 57—Commerce 31

Led by MacKenzie and MacCurdy, Arts & Science took over
sole possession of third place in
the Interfac Basketball standing
when they ran roughshod over
Commerce 57 — 81. —

Commerce: F. Rogers 15; Kerr
2; B. Morrow 10; Ogilvie, Mont
Mackinney 2; Comeau 2.

Arts & Science: K. MacKenzie .
19; Gillis 1; E. MacKenzie 6:
James 1; MacCurdy 20; Shatford
2; MacLeod 8;

MEDS 24—LAW 21

Meds took over sole possession
of first place in the Interfac.
Basketball League on Monday
when they defeated Law 24-21
in a low-scoring, ragged contest.
Setting the pace all the way,
Meds ¢ot off to a fast start and by
the end of the first half had piled
up a 16-9 lead, but were outscored by J.aw in the final frame 138.

MFDS: Morton 6; MacLennan,
Stevenson 4; Williams 3; Ashley
5: Deacon 4; Cox, Foster; 3
Moffat, Epstein, MacWilliams.
LAW: Matthews, Hatfield, Trites,
Bell 6; Hart, Rodden 4; Hillman,
Smith 11.

 

humbled Arts & Science 61-31,
Wilson, Carson, and MacDonald
were the stars in the Frosh vic(Continued on Page 8)
   
     
  
   
   
    

|
Lae?

s

‘

et |

_

mi
Th

fee |

F f ia

~

>

orn of the Men's Residence, the

     

“Open House” in a series which

 

‘will continue till the end of March.

enjoyed 8 program
tocial fellowship.

| of singing and
: ( Guest speaker
for the evening was Dr. ©. M.
| Ison, Principal of Pine Hil)

LU oo &

Divinity Hall, who based hie re
-warks on some of the answers to

the vital question “Why Be A
Ross Hamilton, S, C, M. President, was chairman of the meetjng. His witty (7) remarks were


the subject of much comment from

a most capable manner, with
Came to , led the singing
Fleming at the piano.
musical numbers were

: given by Jocelyn Rogers, with two

fine piano solos, and Terry Monaghan, whose vocal solos were much
enjoyed.

Dr. Nicholson, in his address,
reminded the group that in Christianity man comes, through Jesus,

to know God, and to accept a

personal discipline for his life. In
Jesus, men see man as he might
be; they find a standard of living
which supercedes the weakness
and baseness of life which rejecte Christianity. For in Jesus, and
fin the men who through the
centuries have contributed to
man’s progress, are found great
examples of personality expanded
and folly realized in devotion to
the interests of others, rather
than self. Finally, Dr. Nicholson
said, Christianity places a value
on the individual, regards him as
vitally important,— a fundamental
fact for the psychologica) welfare
of man.

F * hese meetings are open to all
_ students, 1°

ITE: &.4% yp. m., each Sunday

a

éveing.
PLACE: Common Room, Men's

Residence, Studley.

 

 

Med Notes

#Are you going to the basket
ball game tonight, Jim?! ——"“No
sorry, I'm working!” You know
it's just about time most of we
Med students stowed this stuff
about having to work all the time
<— if there was as much work
done as excuses for it, plows
down at Med would be a lot fewer and farther between. All of
which brings us around to the
question of Med participation in
campus events -- or rather the
lack of it! Medical students are
‘wery conspicuous by their absence
on athletic teams, glee club pro_ duetions ete., and it seems as
years #0 by, the situation, if possible, becomes worse and worse.
Each one of us, if we are to carry
_the name, a Dalhousie graduate,
owes something to his college —such being the case, we are indeed
far in debt.
_. Medical basketball and hockey
teams continue to dominate both

of these interfac sports, and to

date, have yet to taste the sorrow
of defeat. This is certainly not
dye to any backing by the rest of

_ the students — oh well, it is grateful to.see old faces like Deek and
Bond. at every match.

Fraternity initiations and for™mals have come and gone.
tttentian is focussing on the bannuet to he held at the Nova Scotlan op February 27, and the Mei

Ball on March 7 - Id cy that
these will Be well attended 7’ fowiron by the present level, T wen
en

i wea ntaied ‘Ga:

For here thou hast a chosen race.”

‘Flash! Antigonish! In a recent
poll of power the following ranked 1. Pope 2. Arch Bishop 3.
Chisolm, D. J., Bill “Ping” Dunn,
the Port Colborne Cassanova, took
time off last weekend to drop
hook on the Admiral’s Barge, and
consequently ended up in the
galley with his daughter, whose
main virtue was in the fact that
she could cook.— Between arguments, it appears as if Doc
(Cicero) Prondfeet has been
tramping out Bedford way. We
gather that the young lady is a
good listener—Recent visitors to
Norman’s included Doug Hunt,
Bob MacDonald, and his brother
“Sandy”. — We pass on congratulations to young “‘Full-up” Moore
who now-enters his 22nd year.
Crime marches -.on!

Having started our column with
a quotation from Bob Burns, it is
only fitting that we end it with one
of Al Capone’s. ... “When a man
don't fall for a ‘broad; he’s
through.” |

(Ed, note; Due to circumstances
beyond our control Cathedral
Comment may not appear in next
week’s Gazette. It's author is being threatened with eviction for
not paying his rent, among other
things.) ’

Dent Notes

AT] roads on Saturday night,
for the hard working Dents lead
to the lower gym where the first
organized party of the Dental
society is scheduled. It promises
to be a good one, so let’s all be
there. The Faculty members have
also been invited and it is hoped
that they will enjoy our first social,

Congratulations to the Director, cast, and the entire Glee Club
for their splendid portrayal of
“Tke Man Who Came To Dinner”
The standard of entertainment
has been high this year and promises to remain so.
incidentals .. . 1

At last Pentz and Chernin can
take in a week-end party. Since
both Marge and Anita are paying
Halifax a visit shortly.

Why was King so embarrassed
at the play last week? Could it
be that he was constantly reminded of the “Error” of last week's
Gazette

Law Notes

Political enthusiasts of the Law
School are looking. forward to
the Mock Parliament that is to
come off towards the end of the
month. The Rt-Hon, P. J. O’Hearn,
Prime Minister, has so far not
disclosed the make-up of the cabinet, but it will no doubt have to
be good to withstand the attacks
of a violent opposition. The Law
School Mock Parliament is heing started this year after several years recess. Lets hope everybody will take enought interest
ta make it a success.

The bic oratorical battle with
Osgoode Hall Law School is here
at last. Friday night will see a
debating team from Toronto meet
two of Dalhousie Law School's
best in the first of what is hoped
will be a series of annual affairs
with the “Queen City”.
Py the time you cast your eyes

this column the bic Bridge
tournament will be well on it:
way to « dramatic finish. It's a
bit early to give a running commentary on. it yet, but next week

 

 

 

or

we hope to have more dope on

the ontceme

RED INK

Throng the past two years the
ranks of the Commerce Society
have swelled with jubilant throngs
of participants from three different sources:

(1) Returning Vets; (2)Students
who actually realize the profits
offered by such a course, and,
(3) Certain unmentionables who,
early in life, discover that they
are not scientists, doctors, etc.

In former years the Commerce
Seciety, known as the “Dirty Dozen’ proved itself the weakest
member of Dal, but also the darkest. I have now taken it upon my
broad? sheulders to bring to light
the dirty doings dug up by my
close associates; thus I consider
myself a potent slave of the C.
Comm. C. (Commissionaires of
Commerce Complaints) a society
altogether worthy of mention in
the gruesome hereafter.

Heading the list is our friend
Bobby (-soker) Lyal who has lock
-ed himself in his room in preparation for Co-ed week. Pretty good
Bob, considdering you lost four
skeleton keys in Sherrif Hall lobby last Sat.

band.

- ihe Friday, February’ 7, ‘1947

Jan. 31: Samuel suffering an extreme acute attack of gout and
delirium tremens, I am forced to edit his diary this week. My husband
and I out to the Gym playhouse and there saw the “Gentleman Gourmand”, an excellent play, to Milords' Bidwell and Zappler consent, I
trust. The house being very full with a great company, large numbers
of the unmarried male species, dressed in all best finery, sought invitations for the the forthcoming ‘Ladies’ Night’’. I am given to understand that several were very successful in their ventures.

Feti.j3: A very busy day. Did stop by the Gym House and there,
in company, did watch the dance of four damsels all we ladies being
on the elert for the arrival of our lecherous husbands.
being weary of my late idle courses, did hasten my steps again to the
Gym House and there, with much company, was forced into the pit due
to great crowds and lack: of seating accomodation.
sternation did hear a young lady not of the college scolding Milord
Ralph Manning for his actions. Was greatly shocked to hear her say,
‘that’s not being friendly, that’s being familiar.”

Feb, 4: Up, as I have of late resolved, before 7 in the morning and
to the office of Ye Olde Gazette where all were mprry supping coffee.
Among the rest of the usual gossip it seems that the ladies of the college
are all mightily pleased with the newly-sprouted moustaches of the boys
of the Barracks.

Feb. 5: Good news beyond all expectations . .
Godfrey is betrothed after much flinging of nets. Tears from the male
swains. Passing ye olde Ale Dispensary did notice a great gathering,
among whom did perceive Milady Jessica Morrison, fromwhom did glean
information that Milord Howard Norman has succeeded in his candyromance. So home to bed to listen to the lewd -mumblings of my hus
This evening,

Much to my con
it seems Milady

MY FAMILY TREE IS EVERGREEN

By DAVE CLARK

My family tree is an evergreen; an evergreen
too old, and gaunt to be taken into a home for a
Christmas season, and too humanly knotty to be
selected by the lumberman for his multifold purposes. In a forest untouched by fire it stands among
others, firmly rooted to the soil, at first glance so
similar to others to be unnoticed; but on further inspection so different that it demands attention.

Some trees in the forest are taller, and our
4ree is a trifle taller than others. When fierce winds
rage through the forest it feels secure among thous
ands of the same stature, pitying the tall trees that
bend and toss their massive heads, compelled by the
savagery of the winds. It pities the pioneers that
grow on the outer, unprotected fringes of the forest;
and when the sun shines it takes its share of warmth,
feeling sorry for the smaller trees that struggle upwards to the light. ;

Girdine the cireumference and extent of the
treess are many branches, some rugged and sturdy,
others weak and small. In several places, broken,
barkless, dead stumps are mute evidence of nolonger existing branches, the memory of which has
not been forgotten. In some places the growing
bark has endeavoured to hide painful memories of
the past; and, failing to do so, the tree has exuded
a bardened, resinous surface that forbids inspection,
but which on being chipped off discloses an internally
incurable wound.

Fertilized by an ever-provident Nature the
female cones fall away to bring forth relative trees
in the unthinking cycle of birth, of living, and of

dying.

Every spring—the season of new life—on the
extremities of the branches, new families appear.
Greener, more hopeful, reaching out their arms with
youthful vigor, they seek life; and as the season
grows and wanes, imperceptibly blending into the
summer age of pleasant living, the youthful green
fades and blends harmoniously into the ever-constant shade of the tree. 3

Storms of winter rage, and the younger, stronger member-needles fight back and cling for life to
the protective family cluster; but older, weaker
members lose their color, turn ashen, cling preeariously but tenaciously to the living branch, finally
to lose their holds to fall or be hurled away from
life into the abysmal oblivion of time-past.

The tree, however, goes on, yearning for hfe
and afraid to die; but always dying and always living. It changes, but the change is slow. Roots stretch
out their fingers, grasping for a stronger claim on
the soil; branches extend outwards and upwards
seeking light and life; and the life-giving blood of
generations flows through the veins of all, bringing
to its members the characteristics of heredity which
shope its natures,—and its natures are manifold.

What is the secret of this tree? What makes
indomitable and sturdy when members of

its

$90

family no longer care or know about other members? Why does it grow? Why? Why?—Perhaps the
Fate who might unleash a thunderbolt to destroy
it with one blow has the answer; but we members
of the tree care little for answers, for we know hfe.
Our family tree is an evergreen, a tree of ever-living,
a tree of life.

 
  

Have a Coke

Coke = Coca-Cola
“Coca-Cola” and ins abbreviation “Coke”

are the registered trade marks #hich
distinguish the product of Coca,Cols Led,

COCA-COLA LTD.
Halifax

 

ihe Salo ae

¥
7 a
h ea

»

uh ttel StS eter

a ad e bake, 198 e . y

 
,«

7

.

Friday, February 7, 1947,

 

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

HUBBA HUBBA HERALD

SECOND ANNUAL EDITION

No, 2.

Introducing...

 

.... EXECUTIVE OF DELTA (GAMMA

As is customary, let us first
present our president, Kay MacLean. Yoa'll know her by her
golden hair, her friendly easy
smile. ‘Ready, willing, and able”’
she capably fills the position of
president of this, the largest,
“erick clique’ on the campus. No
matter what® the job—(and it
may be anything from buying
bristleboard (for our signs) tc
renting a theatre) Kay's bound to
get it done.

Our finances and records of
past meetings are in the able
hands of Elsie Cruickshanks
Elsie makes her way across the
Arm twice daily through all kinds
of weather, to perform her duties
at Dal. She is an active member
of D. G. A. C. as manager of the
swimming team, a star on the first
basketball team; as a Science
student she certainly is going
places.

Liz Reeves is, of course, debating manager. An efficient organizer, herself a competent debater
she has seen to it that the Delta
Gamma team has a full and successful season. The staff of Pharos:
is ably supported by Liz who
works like a slave for its welfare. You may pass judgement
on this week's Gazette, but we
know that it won't be too harsh
for Liz’s management has made it
a great success.

Delta Gamma has always been
successful in the field of dramatics and under the management of
Kay Whitehouse, it is bound to

continue to do so this year. Kay

has already made a start on 4%
one—act play to be performed in
competition for the Conolly Shield
sometime in March.

Arranging the various Delta
Gamma social functions, including
the Open House’s is the job of
Frances Jubien and Helen Beveridge. These girls are ample disproof of the old theory that one
cannot do more than one thing
well at one time, Fran is an active
D. G. A. C. er and D. G. D. S.er,
while Helen is quite an asset to
the D. K. S. V. A. These together
with a special committee appointed for the purpose are responsible
to a great extent, for the swel!
time we’re all having this week.

Terry McLean, who rightfully
bears the title “First Dalhousie
Beauty Queen” has been choser
as the Senior class representati7e
on the executive. Terry tosses her
crown of rd hair as she dream:
away her time in CONSERVAT.
IVE politics, working on the Students’ Council, and men!

Representing the Sophs is Pat
(“Wee-wee”) MacKinnon. She’:
really very efficient; never wastes
a minute—surely you’ve seen her
run! But then, with badminton,
ground hockey, and dramatics,
she’s bound to be busy.

Dot Muir, the Junior representative on the Delta Gamma
Executive, is well known to those
who frequent that med frat known
as Phi Rho Sigha! “Demure” is

(Continued on Page 8)

 

* The Year

In Review

This year Delta Gamma started off with the usual fall Open House
at Shirreff Hall. The music was supplied by a sextet led by Les Single.
Also in the fall two debating teams were formed, both of which

entered the interfaculty debates. Those who participated in

inter
faculty debating were Dorothy Cullen, Edna Short, Elsie Coleman.
Shirley Weatherby, Helen Powell, Mary Lou Crowe and Liz Reeves.

Two inter-collegiate debates are to take place this term; one with
Acadia to be held here at Dal and the other with Mt. St. Vincent to be
held later in the term. Dorothy Cullen and Helen Powell will represent
Dalhousie in the debate with Acadia and Terry MacLean and Shirley
Weatherby in-that with Mt. St. Vincent. Credit is to be given to Liz
Reeves for stirring up so much interest in debating this year.

Delta Gamma is entering a one-act play, “Novelette”, in the Connolly Shield competition. Dramatics Manager, Kaye Whitehouse, started eathering her cast early in the fall and practices began immediately

after Chrismas vacation.

Co-ed Week, which was such an outstanding success last year is being repeated this year. Two days have already come and gone, but remember, there is still time to find a Lil Abner for the dance-tonight if

you have not already done so.

When Co-ed Week has becom ebut a memory, Delta Gamma hopes
to renew the bridge tournaments which were begun last year. Following
these we fear that it will be time to withdraw into solitude to prepare
for the triale and tribulations which usually beset us around the third

week of April every year.

 

oe Sports

Irene Robinson—President of
D. G. A. C. and Senior class
manager, and (just in case you
hadn't heard) hailing from An
napolis Royal, Renie is back at
her old position of forward on
this year’s Senior team. Her’s
has been no easy job this year,
for at times she has had to act
not only as president, but also as
Phys. Ed. Instructress. Last year
Renie was D. G. A. C. Sect’y Treas,

Frances Doane — Our little
blonde example of “slow and steady
wins the race” hails from Halifax.
Last year Frannie won The Marjorie Leonard D. G. A. C. Sports
Award, and the Panhellenic Award
to the outstanding Freshette, as
well as won Minor D’s for Basketball 2nd Team and Ground Hockey. This year she continues the
good record as Manager of the
Basketball ist Team, and plays
Forward on both the Basketball
and Ground Hockey Teams. With
all this she still finds time to fill
the duties of Sophmore Clas:
Manager and to write the D. G.
A. C. column of the Gazette.

Betty Petrie — Another of
Saint John’s contributions to our
world of sports. Petp boasts a
head of auburn hair; long legs
and arms which have won her a
place as Guard on our Basketball
lst Team in her Freshette year:
and a reputation for being a steady.
all-round sport.

Peggy Rundle—To those ir
authority one of the most needed
attributes of human nature is to
be where you're needed, when
you’ne needed, and Halifax ha
presented the D. G. A. C. with
such a personality in Peggy. As
Badminton Manager she shows
executive ability. Her faithfu)
appearance at the Gym _ every
Monday and Tuesday evenings,
and her quiet acceptance and good
management of all jobs assigned
her are greatly appreciated.

Leslie Ann Hayes—Living in
Fairview, Leslie Ann came to Da!
from H. L. C. last year and pulled down two Minor D’s for Basketball 2nd. Team, and Ground
Hockey. This year Leslie Ann is
again playing Defence on the
Ground Hockey Team and has
made our Basketball 1st. Tear
where, as Guard, she keeps the
opposing team from dropping the
ball into their hasket.

Pat Snugg*—This year Q. E
H. lost Halifax’s Pat Snuggs to
our Basketball Ist. Team as Forward. Pat plays a sharp game of
basketball, with good style, and
is particularly noted for long
shots. Besides playing well, sh«
“knows her stuff” and ceaches
one of the city’s younger teams.
Pat also spends a great deal of
time with Ground Hockey and
plays on the Team as forward.

Marg O'Neill — This little
streak of lightning comes to us
from the Sacred Heart Convent
Halifax, and is another of our
Freshettes to make the Basketball ist. Team. Extremely fast on
the floor, she is also a good shot,
and numbers among her accomplishments a place on the Ground
Hockey Team as forward.

Jocelyn Rogers — Another of
Halifax's gifts to Basketball,
Jocelyn plays Guard on our 2nd.

(Continued on Page 8)

~~ RR ee

 

Friday, February 7

Introducing

 

...» EXECUTIVE OF D. G. A. C.

Front—left to right: Pam Stevens (ground hockey) Elsie Cruikshanke
(swimming mgr.) Verna Leonard (Junior Class mgr.) Jocelyn Rogers
(Freshette class mgr.) Christine Irvine (Tennis Mer.)

Back—Peggy Rundle (Badminton Mgr.) Nancy MacDermaid (Archery
Mer.) Joan Myrden (Ping-pong Mer.) Irene Robinson (President) Dot
Muir (Sect’y Treasurer) Frances Doane (Basketball Mer.)

 

HUBBA HUBBA HERALD

EDITOR: Liz Reeves.

CONTRIBUTIONS: Adina Galley, Fairlie Prowse, Louise
Joudrey, Penny Ellis, Fran Doane, Nancy Wilson, Kaye
MacLean, Marjorie Archibald.

 

MAN IN HIS PROPER PLACE —

 

skunk hollaw review

Again ‘tis Haidie Sockings Weak and All the birls and goys are
Having fan. Ready-here is the latest dope soaks—I mean folks. To review the Gelta Dammers, first, we see out Pres. MacLoon is still humming her favorite song, “Night and Kay”. Nain turn to Constable Corridor
where Peeping Mac, Knows all, heres all and SERS all. This applies te
Dash MacLude and Hic Aspirin also Pip Squeak Jordan and his various
Maisie Days; Poesie Blunt and Riz Leaves. As for Fancy Stilson and
Denny Coughnee they appear in a limonzeen. However Nutzy Coon and
Key LickMellon oceupy the back step since house rules at Fire-O have
changed. We hear that Outspoken Rogers of the 1947 Rogers Brothers,
has affessed his confection for Christmas Trade. Speaking of Fire-O,
Crispy Oil and Wob, Spider also Dash More and Chick Cameron appeare
at the formal.

Now to the Jim Joint of Rooy Totree—here we find Crack Gusher o
of the GAZOOT digging deep for hid Ham Sneaks column and the
Chureh Shack boys having breakfast, etc. Dug Acornly and Pat Tights
talking over baskerball, Ad Lib Scowl and Grover Ohio arguing about
dis *n dat. This place is crowded so I mus t get out—see you all tonight, soaks, I mean folks!

Play the lame on Haidie Soekings—
Tip anl Fit.

 
 

ft ;
CAVALCADE OF
7 (Continued from page 1)

Saturday night his performance was slightly uneven but still remarkably good when it is remembered that he was on stage such an extraordinary length of time. I wish to say here that the hearty response of

bey the Dalhousie audience on Friday night helped Soper and his fellow|! . 1 am forced to group the work of Shuiman, Hartling, Finlay and
el Sideris: they were all very good. Leah Shulman (Maggie Cutler) playi ed her part very well; her timing andd carriage were good and she
made full use of a mobile face. While her delivery was strong, it was
i" weakened by poor enunciation, David Finlay (Beverly Carlton) carried off a difficult part with complete aplomb and was too terribly British, Nita Sideris played an ethereal and quite mad Harriet (the HatchetI Girl) Stanley, although I fear that she dribbled off into sanity on Saturday night. Art Hartling (Mr, Stanley) was extremely convincing and
i performed consistently well on both nights.
Margaret Goode (Lorraine Sheldon), Janice Thomas (Miss Preen),
Kenneth Phelps (Dr, Bradley), and Martin Bushell (Bert Jefferson)
} turned in excellent performances. Foils for Whiteside’s caustic wit,
li the hearty doctor, who scuttled ebout the stage, and the outraged ‘Miss
Bed-Pan"” who so often stormed off in wrath, by their actions added
immeasurably to the comedy.
' E. Ukie Velcoff, playing E. Ukie Velecoff, presented an inimitable
performance as Whiteside’s screwball friend, Banjo.

I should also like to note the work of Eileen Cantwell, Ray Himmelman, Sherburne McCurdy and Julia Kaplan (who played Julia Kaplan.)

The remainder of the cast, all of whom turned in sound work in
supporting roles include; Mary Lou Christie, Frank Fleming, Bryant
Baleom, Gerald MacKay, Arthur Moreira, Shirley Weatherby, Beryl
Beatteay, Lyn Burnett, Vincent Allen, Albert MacMahon, John Pauley,
Donald Vinee, Vernon Wallace, Howard Norman, Gregory Comeau,
Bill (Conerete) Menchions, Basi] Bloomer,

An appealing part of the Christmas scene was the presence of six

choir boys, who were under the direction of Geoff Payzant.
oO Stage-manager Phil Raymond and his hard-working crew are to
he commended for their excellent work on a very difficult set. Propertymanager Bob Williams did an excellent job in borrowing properties
from the Halifax firms that so kindly helped the Glee Club.

And so to President Gordie Hart and the Glee Club, I say, “The
Glee Club:— ‘Long may she wave!.’ ”

DELTA GAMMA

(Continued from Page 7)
always looking after the million

 

a

2

 

 

TIGERS DOWN

(Continned from Page 5)
Second Period.

and one little things that are =o 12. Dalhousie—Reid (O'Ned)
necessary, such as paying. bills! 13. St. Mary’s—Campbell. 16.30
ats , Penalties — Wade, McManus

: honest character ;
But she’s an nest ¢ Citelcatickine) Sh eames a

really! Our programmes and handbills were designed by Dot and...

Marie Milton i# our Freshette
Representative. Marie is really
noted for her jovial manner and
pleasing personality. Without
Marie, the advisor of the ‘‘lovetorn’ (freshettee at S. H.) these
innocent young girls never have
seen the light, (?) And look,
| people, as far as efficiency goes,
|

(major—fighting), Keddy (interference) 8,40; Lee, Young (highsticking}, 12.37; Larlee (holding)
14.45; unsuccessful penalty-shot
by Campbell, minor penalty served _by Reid.
Third Period
14. Dalhousie—Churchill-Smith.
Line-ups:
DAITJHOUSIE: goal, Timothy;
defence, O'Neill, Campbell, Frazee
to the inmates of “Shiffel Hover” Wade; forwards, Knickle, ChurchMarie makes her bed inthe morn- ‘Smith, Brown, Crosby, Reid,
in#, A. M.. that is. Murphy, Malloy, Snow, Lee.
ST. MARY’S: goal, Smith; de
PERSONALTIES fence. Reardon, Graves, Keddy,

(cietieA tenet) Baca 7) ; forwards, Larlee, Campbell,
io aa 4 :

- k r 4 McGillvray. Lynn, McCombs, Me
eam, coaches at Q. E. H., and ir xy.50< Youngs. Feron.
a good Referee. She also plays an

Pe the Badminton Team, and is

Freshette’ Class Manager. Jocelyn Al : Ol | ’
plays a good all-round game, and ©
is always on the spot when needed
’ —
_-—s« FROSH — A. & Sc. Basketball
| (Continned from Page 5) Se
tory, with the latter scoring 33 D A] MI A
| points, McCurdy and Ken Mac- VS. .
‘SATURDAY
7 p. m.

Kenzie were the head men for
DAL — GYM

Arts & Science.
ke

=

 

. Wwe want to make this statement

 

FROSH: MacDonald 22; Wilson 11; Tanner 4; Saunders 4;
Carson 10; Robertson 6; Himmelman 2: Cluest 2.

ARTS & SCIENCE: B. MacKenzie 2: McCurdy 13; McLeod
5; James, Knight, Gillis, K. MacKenzie 11.

| Oxford Theatre

wm, T. W.
“THE SPIRAL STAIRCASE”

Dorothy MeGuire and
Robert Young

ADDED SHORTS
T. F. 8,

- “PEOPLE ARE FUNNY”
Jack Haley *

Pi “HOUSE ON 92nd STREET"
' , William Bythe

  
  
   
 
 
  

 

    
         

 

  

 
      
       
   
    
   

 

 
 

 
   

Suart—Look SMART

PHU UD UA a UTE La

TOM GILES

(Continued from Page 3)
spects of basketball in the near
future.

One of the highlights of the
meeting was the report by the
delegation of Helen Beveridge,
Bob Mitchell, and Leo McIntyre
who represented Dalhousie at the
National Student ‘Veterans Conference held at McGill University
during the Christmas vacation.

The three delegates summariz7ed their respective panels which
consisted of summer employment,
finance and housing. Full reports will be published in the

GAZETTE in subsequent editions.
Considering the amount of

work carried on by the executive
of the Vets Association it was
felt that an attendance of a smail
fraction of the total membership
of eight hundred was disheartening, and it is hoped that future
meetings will have better support.

A vote of thanks was heartily
tendered the retiring slate of officers by the assembly after the
new president lauded them for
the work done during their term
of office.

INTRAMURAL

(Continued from Page 4)

interesting and exciting pro
eramme. The officials and participants will be announced at a later date.

Now is the time for every Dalhousian with an ounce of fighting
blood and a ton of college spirit
to show what he or she can do,
either as a participant or as a
fan.

EDITORS MAILBOX

(Continued from Page 2)
feeling expressed in his letter
published in the January 24th
GAZETTE: and Samuel Peeps for
ending the Day of January 22nd

 

with something less prosaic than

‘to hed.”
Yours truly,
PENNY ELLIS.

going

The Dal Newman Club will hold
a semi-formal dance at the Nova
Scotian Hotel on Feb. 17. Watch
the notice boards for further details.

 

| IN FINE WATCHES
IT’S CHALLENGER

Birks take particular pride in
presenting to Canadains the

Challenger Watch.

It's accurate

Tt’s beautiful

It's long-lasting
It’s not expensive

Canada’s Best Buy in
Watches

Henry Birks & Sons
' Limited
Registered Jeweller,

American Gem Society
Halifax, N. S.

 

 

IRYLCREEM

THE PERFECT HAIR DRESSING

@ Applied every morning, BRYLCREEM will
keep your hair looking smart and well-groomed
all day long. The natural oils in BrRYLCREEM
overcome dandruff and dry scalp, give the hair
@ heaithy, natural lustre without that greasy
appearance. All druggists sell BryLcREEM in
the handy, convenient tube. Buy today.

 

DEMENTED

(Continued from page 1)

And now! THE day is at hand!
Now, Sadie Hawkins achieves the
climax to a glorious 3 days, with
the Sadie Hawkins Dance. Even
at the price of $1.25 per twosome, (equal to 30,000,000 rasbuckniks in Slobbovian currency)
gals, it’s worth it!

Ah. bliss! The girls arrive in
various stages of undress, emulating such well-known characters
as Daisy Mae, Moonbeam MeSwine, and Lena. The Hyena.

Marryin’ Sam is present in case
of emergency (these monntain
fellas sure have a knack of gettin’ away!), and to the latest hillbilly rythms of Don (Unavailable) Warner, there they go!
Even the men, fortified with jugs
of kickapoo joy-juice, forget their
inhibitions. When dancin’ time
comes, they dance. When chompin’
time chomp. But
when goin’ home times comes, do
they go home?

SILLY BOY!

comes, they

D. A. A. C. RATIFIES

(Continued from Page 1)

hers of a winning relay team, 1%
points for members of a secondplace team.

Badminton players
Maritime Intercollegiate Titles in
Intercollegiate Tournaments ” will
algo receive Major D's. In all
three sports, a person receiving a
Major D would not receive a Minor
D for the same sport.

who win

NEWS OF THE WEAK

(Continued from Page 2)

WEAKLY BEAUTY TIP (from
the Institute for the Promation of
the Sale of Beauty Aids to Women Because Without Beauty
Aids They Look Beyond All Aid)
— If you eat lats of onion, garlic, ete. men will follow you
around holding their breaths (1)
IF you can hold yours,

About clothes: Throw away
your foundations, stays, girdles,
STOP — keep your clothes. It's

too cold for that yet.

As T cannot think up a joke
for this weak — I will pass this
on:

Co-ed: What

In a mnan, money, ability, or ap
would you like

=

pearance?

2nd Co-ed:
soon.

(Keep your shirt on, sister, and
Mil give number
next week (1).

Appearance—and

you my phone

 

Friday, February 7, 1047 —

CAMPUS ROUNDUP
(Continued from Page 5)
licizing any function put on aft
the university, fer public consumption, should be placed in the
hands of the Gazette staff, who
could see that the local paper:
carry copy about the play and
those taking part in it along with
appropriate pictures. This would
greatly stimulate public interest
in Dalhousie and its functions.
The quality of the DGDS productions rate a great deal more
excitement than they have been

receiving.

It. was suggested at the Student’s Forum that the sinking
fund be used to build a Student's
Union buildime. If a suitable
building cost, say $100,000. —
how long would it take us to save
it ? ? ? —There are numerous
drug stores, hamburger shoppes
ect., near the campus, who owe
their existence to Dal students
In the past, their prices have been
too high, but nevertheless, when
the WPTB raised the ceiling, the
boys couldn’t get their pen and
ink out fast enough. Now, hamburgers are 20 cents at one place,
sundaes 20 cents at another—
if you order a meal it is necessary to leave yonr gold teeth—
who says the students haven't got
money. If the students boycotted
these places for a week or 80,
things might change.

 

a i

CANADA’S FINEST
CIGARETTE

 

 

more conservative

in wool and

shades. BACH

&T.

MAR IT

 

° »
, : |
Men's Felt Hats
Offered In A Good Selection at EATON’S

mart types for the younger fellows and hats of
types, too, featured at
EATON’S!... There is a good selection of styles
fur felts and various seasonable

igen $4.75 TO $10.00 )

EATON’S Main Floor |

EATON CO |

iIMES LIMITED

  
