    

“y)

 

»

Ares ¢ _——
ee 2
ee ae

™ ot Mee"
"

 

- ‘i

 

tun at: Phage a i
F) E

ig ets eee yi eee AT 5
| atest diel

  
 
 

|

OLDEST STUDENT

FRIDAY, NOVEM BER 22, 1946

PEAKERS FEATURE

| f Rapenivntatises of the three armed forces and the directorate of

‘a ‘General Defence Research addressed more than two hundred students
in the Chemistry Theatre at noon on Tuesday,
tunities for careers in the services.

outlining the oppor
With Colonel Laurie of the Board of Governors present, Dr. Kerr,
University President, opened the meeting, and introduced Major J. R.

Cameron, resident C. O. T. C.

the guest speakers—Engr. Lt.

 

officer,

Cdr. J. C. Chauvin (Navy), Major J. P.

who in turn introduced

L. Gosselin (Army), and W/C R. R. Dennis (Air Force).

Lt.-Cdr. Chauvin told the meeting that its primary purpose was
to find the “number of undergradwates interested in becoming
members of the armed forces, active or reserve, upon graduation.”
Graduates in Engineering, Medicine, Law, Commerce, and Economics, as well as instructors, are
needed by the Navy. Profesgional skill will not be permitted
to decline, he asserted, but would
be supplemented by courses in,the
latest techniques to be held at
Universities and Naval schools.

“The Army wants doctors, dentists and engineers’, said Major
Gosselin. Engineers are urgentl)
needed for current communication work and research at

Fort Churchill Personne ]
may apply for the Staff
Course at Kingston, and. there

will be attachments to units serving in foreign countries. Major
Gosselin also pointed out that
graduate students may qualify
after six months training as First
Lieutenants in the Permanent
Force.

Wing Commander Dennis stressed the openings in the Air Force
for Aeronautical Engineers and
Doctors. Graduates of 1947 and
1948 — if ex-service — can be
placed on suspended pay until
such time as they enlist. Enlistment rank will be that of Pilot
Officer, unless a higher rank was

(Continued on Page 4)

AGENDA

The Council of the Students
will meet in the Murray Homestead at 7:30 p.m. on Tuesday,
November 26, 1946.

AGENDA

1. Glee Club Constitution.

2. Canadian University Press.

3. Policy re Inter-University
relations.

4. Gazette financial report.

5. Policy re campus political
groups.

6. N.F.C.U.S. report, conference delegates.

Ta Ree ak

8. Appointment of Year Book
Business Manager.

9. Consideration of Year Book
budget.

10. Limitation of
fices.

11. Report of Awards Committee.

12. Outdoor Rink.

 

student of
 

Campus Has
Face Lifted

Dr. Cyrus S. Eaton has given
a generous donation to Dalhousie
to be used in the improving and
landscaping of the grounds. Dr.
Eaton—a well-known .American
financier and one of Nova Scotia’s
most distinguished sons—visited
Dalhousie during the summer,
and while here expressed his conviction that the buildings and
grounds of a University
exert a silent,influence on the appreciation of beauty. He further
suggested that enterprises of
higher education were worthy of
a generous share of the attention
of the community. A short time
ago concrete evidence of his interest was received by President
Kerr.

The Buildings and Grounds
Committee of the Board of Governors, assured of financial support, have begun work on preparing the campus for landscaping. Some of the beautiful old
willows which have for many generations been Dalhousie landmarks, have been removed. The
land south of Coburg Road has
been fertilized, prior
and cultivation next spring.

A badly needed project has
been started, and within the next
few years Dalhousie’s campus
may cease to be an eyesore—and
become, as Dr. Eaton has advocated, a site so attractive that
every visitor should be advised to
see it.

 

PHAROS FINISH 9O0O

PHOTOS

Assistant Editor Jim Bell this
week reports satisfactory progress on Pharos to date. Over
900 individual photos have been
taken—and it is expected that c#
the 1700 students’ registered,
photos of at least 1300 will appear in the book. He cited the
lack of co-operation of many students as one factor in the difference of 400.

It is expected that the approximately 200 graduating students

should
to rolling

   
 

PUBLICATION

 

No. 7

Critics Find
King’s Plays
Disappointing

Cc. S. WEBBER, A. MOREIRA

We were privileged, on Tuesday night, to see three one-act
plays presented by the King’s
Dramatic Society. The first, the
Noel Coward, was well done in
general; we would like to commend particularly the work of
those members who played the
parts of the Servant and Charles,
The latter’s work with his moustache was, we thought, cleverly
done. Levinia, while rising at
times to the requirements of the
part, was disappointing.

The Maeterlinck was less well
done. The subtleties almost disappeared, and the acting was generally bad. Ursula was somewhat below the requirements of
the part, which is not surprising,
considering its difficulties. The
Intruder was definitely disappointing, and the Twilight Saint was
hardly better. The unimpressive
St. Francis reached a doubtful
peak when he choked over a
bread-crust, trying to reach a cue.
Guido’s passionate poetry—“‘‘let
these kisses tell my heart!’”’—was
uttered with all the fervor of a
bloated epicure addressing a bowl
of porridge; in short his passionate utterance was a little flat.
Pia’s performance was the only
bright spot—a creditable piece of
work.

One thing we wish to emphasize is our opinion of the plays
chosen for performance: here the
Society really overreached itself.
We feel that if plays more suited
to the talent of the actors had
been chosen, the performances
would have been excellent. Under
the circumsances the Society did
as good a job as would have been
done by any other amateur group.

will have their. appointments with
the Pharos photographer shortly
after the Christmas vacation.

All those who have had
photos taken within the last
week are advised to call at
the Pharos office for their

immediately. Forrest students may pick
theirs up in the basement of
the Medical Library.

The completion of 960 photos
marks the close of most Year
Book activity before Christmas,
although the Editors will con
proofs

(Continued on Page 8)

 

   

 
 

Alumnus Morton and students

 

Pond and Mitchell compare notes.

 

Alumni, Students

All Welli

“Dalhousie has never had a greatey day than today.’”’
Dr. Kerr in his address to the students
Alumni\Smoker, held at the Gym on Monday night.
were broadcast over station C.H.N.S.—and featured the

 

Smoke

So spoke
and Alumni at the annual
The proceedings

Dalhousie

orchestra, under Don Warner, with soloist Maynard Taylor, the Dal.

housie male chorus directed by Geoff Payzant, and Jerry Morse, come
dian extraordinary.

Major Ray Smith acted as M.C. for the evening, introducing the

participants in the program.

During the intermission Chef Atwood

of a well-known Campus eating place served refreshments.

 

Outdoor Rink
On Studley

Considered

An old idea has been rejuvenated by Physical Instructor John
MacCormack, and the Executive
of the D.A.A.C., of - having an
outdoor rink at Dal. There is,
they feel, a definite need for
such a recreational facility at
Dal, especially with the difficulty
of finding places to skate or play
hockey in Halifax. This group
has pressed the idea with some
success, as the Students’ Council
has made them a grant of $750,
providing that the D.A.A.C. can
come to some agreement with the
Athletic Representative of King’s.

Through the efforts of Professor Bowes and Charlie Smith, theDal grounds have been checked,
as to the best location for a rink,
and, of the available spots, the
area behind the back entrance ta
the Gym, and moving out towards
the goalposts, is the most suitable
considering every angle.

Much of the groundwork has
been done already, but the whole
idea is dependent upon solid stu
(Continued on Page 4)

   

JIM BELL

Major Smith introduced Dr. W.
C. Ross to the company. This
member of the grand old team of
"08 in turn introduced the Deus
of the Faculties,and several exDalhousians—among them Rev
D. K. Grant, class’’88, and Dr. 3.
A. Morton, class ’86.

From out the smoke which by
this time wreathed the interior of
the Gym, custing visibility down
to zero, Mr. J. P. Martin rose to
tell of some of the student pranks
which enlivened life at Dalhousie
in past years. Following him, G
don Hart, Glee Club President,
welcomed the Alumni to the Simoker, and outlined his society’s
plans for the year.

Finally, fearful of losing so
of the more venerable graduaies
and younger Freshman in the billowing clouds of smoke the Siioker broke up, with the singing of
Auld Lang Syne in a huge friendship cirtle. Following which the
company adjourned to the fresh
air,

Lawyers Hold
Annual Ball

“Fhere was the sound of revelry by night” last Friday wien
the boys from the Law School let
loose. The occasion was the ainual Law Ball held at the Nova
Scotian Hotel” Festivities beran
at the hour of nine and roared 07
to a finish on or about one.

The dance was one of the liveliest of the college year to date.
Groupings of Sigma Chi and Phi
Delta Theta fraternities hichlighted the evening, singing their
respective chants back and foriu

That madman Warner and iis
equally mad musicians provi
the music, accompanied by
usual incantations about Caldonia:
and his friends.

Dean and Mrs. V. C. MacDon.
ald, Mr. and Mrs. J. A. Hanwa,
Mr. and Mrs. F. Smith and P
and Mrs. J. B. Milner were
chaperones.

As the Lawyers and tl
guests homeward plodded tl
weary way, all were in agreement
that it had been an outstand
success.

 

4

_ SEE YOU AT THE GAZETTE

GAMBOL - NOV. 29...

BS,

 

  
    

 
  
 
   
   
    
    
   
   
 
 
 
 

  

MMMM REA caps ae s | Editor-in-Chief |

een Os. LOMAS. (32-4808).

PEER ENE Mee IAI Features Sports
MaMRaie SRN H REE Tee oh: JACK LUSHER DON HARRIS
“Co-ed Sports tt News. Ce-ed Ed.

DOANE — LEW MILLER, P-3 JEAN BOWERS
Be we yi a Proofreader Circulation
KIRA RALPH MacDONALD MARY FARQUHAR
eixhay Office Mer. . Photographer
VIAN LUSHER | BILL OGILVIE DON MORRISON
Business | Manager =F Cartoonist
- DON HARRIS BOB TUCK

CONTRIBUTORS AND REPORTERS THIS WEEK:
a Ba Lovatt, Dave Jamieson, Charm Cousins, Raiph Mahoney, Viv
oa usher, Liz Reeves, Don Chipman, Neil McKelvie, Carl Webber, Bob
hee Oe ant, Windy O’Neil, Bernie Creighton, Fran Doane, Nancy Jones,
$e | dea Ted Shields.

Friday, November 22, 1946 No. 7

Mp a recent cross-Canada poll of student opinion the Canadian
versity Press has discovered that Maritime University students in
eral are not interested in appear While Dalhousie is notable by

vi icate no political clubs on their campii.
At Dalhousie, however, there is an organization known as the,
aes o-operative Commonwealth University Federation, which has been
functioning since its inception on October 22. Although the group
_ ia affiliated with the National C. C.F. party, it has urged students of
1 leanings take part in its debates and meetings.
oa Several years ago the Progressive Conservative party made an
 etive attempt to organize a political club in this University, but
the group soon foundered and sank in the general antipathy and ine1 ‘ia of the war years.
1 Fa Today the question, “Shall we have Political clubs on the cam; pest”, has emerged as a current controversy. At Queen’s University
; "recently the dispute waxed so warm that a student plebiscite was held,
Sy me ab which 85% of the approximate 50% of the student body voting
| it fi - rejected Political clubs.
vn here is much to be said for both sides. Politics is often consid; ee a racket. If students can equip themselves, now, with a knowlnt se edge of political issues, they will be better equipped to play an effective part in the politics of the nation. It is apparent, however, that a
’ wide knowledge of political issues cannot be gained by membership
+) Sa! a club directly affiliated with any of the national parties, as such
i - membership will automatically mean association with those of the
a. ee political faith, and exposure to party propaganda.
The party system has become so firmly entrenched in the Canaa Te governmental system, however, that for immediate purposes a
Se 48. knowledge and support of one party is the only practical way that Ca| ere Nn: - nadians can have a share in government. It is indisputable that this
pay Fe ni Bs contrary to all the principles of a University training and a liberal
ie Hey --education—but such is the case. A knowledge of the party system
ne : i hi Pool be best achieved by an objective and impartial study of all party
fie os study which could be facilitated, theoretically, by Politi
’ Lp ¢
eet ls
Hi \
Dea a

   

ee oA

eal clubs. It seems hardly probable or possible that interested stuents would have time to attend all meetings of all clubs—or that,
ni me being no obstacle, would permit themselves such an experience in
partiality.

ad The party organizations in Canada are keen to recruit young
pe The students of today will be the influential citizens of toPY _- morrow, .and as such are respected by those now in politics. Highly
‘ Oe ganized political groups might succeed in gaining control of student
iaaecencs and making political faith a discriminatory factor in
; eds Has the choice of student officers. In the event of any group attempting
is he " to exert such an influence, the student should be of sufficient intelliae as ge nee to recognize whether it is an influence for the good, or merely
ie fe i a ’ ‘political manoeuvre. If the student is unable to diagnose between
Rens, bi, £ he two he has no place in a University.

st : ye _ Freedom of thought, of speech, of activity, Seauibdnn: to form an
ars ir ndepenident opinion must not be hampered by the requirements of an
ie nae - outside authority. Concurrently, freedom of the individual to belong
0 oh organization of his own political party, freedom to present his

2 opinions and to hear those of others are his inalienable rights.

a Pi, = Y ‘These are some of the facts. The choice remains with you.
rap The GAZETTE acknowledges material for this editorial, which
tienes the Queen’s Journal, Friday, November 18.

MAIL

hints regarding doubling the
number of points required for a
Gold D. There are certain sections of the constitution which,
in view of the four page increase,
sare hopelessly out of date. I shall
concern myself only with the Literary section. ‘nh

The constitution provides for
the Literary Editor’s taking all

ae

 

J would like to know whether
mot the Ceyncil of Students
__ intends tv amend the Gazette Constitution in proportion to an enlarg a nae. and Student Rody
_ bey: ri her reports from the
me ar

‘published, literary. material to two
professors of the Department of

English to have points awarded
to them “aceording to literary
merit.” Presumably this is supposed to happen at the end ‘of the
year, Last year, to my knowledge,
the contributions were not ‘‘marked” at all, and this year there is
from four to six times as much
literary material in the Gazette.
Which of our professors wil have
the time or inclination at the end
of the year to award points to
some hundred contributions?
Furthermore, opinions on what
is of “literary merit” differ. It
is ridiculous to imagine that the
average contributor is a polished
literatus; what criterion is there
on which to judge the contributions unless it is the average
literary worth of the whole? To

submit the articles to judges as

they are published would leave

no standard other than the literary _

perfection to which the judges
are normaly accustomed, which I
consider would be unfair to our
contributors, in that it sets up a
standard most undergraduate
students are unable to reach. The
average standard should be the
“fifty percent’? on which to judge
the individual contributions.
Considering these points, if the
Council, as has been hinted, raise
the required points for a Literary D to sixty, the average undergraduate would not be able to
attain the standard necessary to
obtain one; and more. senior
students, their literary ability
notwithstanding, would be unable
to have their work recognized in
(Continued on page 8)

NEWS FROM
OTHER U’s

Money-hungry McGill veterans
still consider baby-sitting the
most popular past-time occupation. Provided baby is good and
doesn’t do things it shouldn’t, the
“profession” pays a reasonable
dividend. In place of monetary
remuneration, the ‘sitter’ often
receives some of that homecooking that he misses while away
from home.

Cards of appreciation, similar
to the following, are sent to the
employees:

Dear Mr. and Mrs.:

A belated thank you for the
lunch, especially the raspberry
jam. It was good.

MeGill Daily.

We noticed in a recent edition
of the “Queen’s Journal’ that a
symphony orchestra is in_ the
offing. Practices are being held
with an average attendance of
thirty-five but with a decided
weakness in the brass and the
Windwoods section. )

Also, from the Journal comes

word that the C. O..T. C. is still
fifty members short of its compliment of 144. Age limits have been
raised to admit veterans up to the
age of thirty-five and an accelerated course is being offered to
final year students.
_ The blase, dignified skins of
McMaster are now (under a
penalty of fine) wearing gowns
at all lectures. It seems as though
this is not the idea of the faculty
but rather the wish of the majority determined by a ballot held
last spring.

Much has been said and written
concerning the form that the
University Memorial should take.
From the “Varsity” comes word
that McGill Graduates have collected nearly $570,000 for the
purchase of a_ rink-auditorium,
which will serve as a War Memorial to the McGill men killed
in the second World War.

What are the Dal students and
graduates doing concerning such
a project at this campus?

 

 

ee a |
i i r

Pilon

 
 

  
 
 
 
    
   
 

 
 
  
   
    
 
 
 
 
  

WEET CAPORAL

CIGARETTES

“The purest ferm ia which
tobacco ean be smoked”

Be Emarr—Look SMART —

BRYLCREEM

THE PERFECT HAIR DRESSING

@ Applied every morning, BrytcreeMm will
keep your hair looking smart and well-groomed
all day long. The natural oils in BRYLCREEM
overcome dandruff and dry scalp, give the hair
a heaithy, natural lustre without that greasy
appearance. All druggists sell BRYLCREEM in
the handy, convenient tube. Buy today.

   
    
   
 

  
   

 
 
 
   
   

  
     
   
   
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
   
    
   
  
  
  
  
  
        
     
  
  
   
 
 
  
  
 
   
   
 
  
  
   
 
  
     
 
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
     
   
 
  
  
  
 
   
      
     
 
 
    
   
     
      
 
 
 
   
   
   

 
     

~~

Ae ak

  
 
 
 
 
 

NO GUM~NO SOAP-NO ALCOHOL>NO STARCH

 

“Heat Merchants Since 1835”

5. Cunard and Company, Lin

HARD COAL * SOFT COAL
COKE * FUEL OIL
OIL BURNING EQUIPMENT

HALIFAX, N. S.

DARTMOUTH,

N. S.

Say SCHWARTZ

and be sure!

It was a good slogan in war.

 

It is now a good slogan in peace:
“Say Schwartz and be Sure”. We urge it for your protection
that you may be assured of the incomparable Schwartz quality
in Coffee, Spices, Peanut Butter, Jelly Powder, Baking Pow
der and Dried Fruit,

W.H. Schwartz & Sons Ltd.

Canada’s Oldest Coffee and Spice House
Founded in Halifax in 1841

 

 

Dalhousie University
Halifax, Nova Scotia 7

Largest Staff, Libraries and Laboratories in the Maritimes —

The Faculty of Arts and Science
enjoys international distinction

Degrees of: Diplomas in:

Bachelor of Arts Engineering
Bachelor of Science Education
Bachelor of Commerce Music
Bachelor of Music Pharmacy

Master of Arts Hospital Pharmacy
Master of Science Mining Geology
Pre-Professional Courses

Honour and Advanced Courses in many departments

in the B. Se. course about $210.00 a year

in the B. A, Course average about $160.00 a year

Many valuable scholarships, on entrance and through the courses

Regional Scholarships awarded on the result of examinations held in

February in any Maritime school, Special $600.00 scholarships for Hon
our courses in Classics, Mathematics, Modern Languages and Histo
The Professional Faculties cua

Inclusive Fees

 

Law, Medicine, Dentistry, enjoy an unexcelled reputation.

 

 

 

Residences

Women students live in Shirreff Hall — one of the finest Women’s
Residences in the Dominion. Residence is provided for first year men
in the University Men’s Residence. Other men students live in either
of two affiliated institutions or in selected and approved homes.
Special arrangements are.being made to accommodate married and
single ex-service students.
Meals for all students are available at the University.
For full ccmiaibmars write to THE REGISTRAR.

 

 

7 is j
Se. Pas tee
 

*

*

- Common Room Dance - Sat.23 rd, 9 p.m.

‘

November 14—At a stormy meeting of the Dal-Kings Veterans’
Association, unruly throughout, often threatening to get out of hand

and delayed in starting, Alex Hart, the president, exclaimed, ‘My feeling is that the organization has not proven its worth’, ang he added
that the association should either be dissolved because of lack of interest, or that a new council should be elected which would have the

| §mterest of the veterans behind it.

And while a hundred other veterans attended night classes and
other important functions on the
campus, the Vets Association
‘meeting, attended by a mere
handfal of the 800 veterans at
Dal, proceeded to elect Mr. R. O.
Mitchell as Vice-President, the
major move of the night.

Without calling the meeting to
order the president asked for ex
pressions of feeling about the

matted of the small attendance,
and after the storm of controversy which followed his remarks
it was decided to hold the meeting regardless of the apparent
apathy of Dalhousie veterans.

Following the approval of the
minutes of the previous meeting,
it was decided that the organization should continue to function,
for the time being at least, under
the present plan of operation,

On deciding that three members should be appointed to represent Dal-Kings veterans at the
National conference, the organization elected Helen Beverage,
Mr. Mitchell and Mr. MacIntyre
as delegates, with Colin Smith as
waiting member.

Mr. Clements, one of the organizers of the Personal Services
Agency, stated that it was run
“in the interests of our pocketbooks and in the interests of Student veterans to act as middlemen for odd jobs.

The General Duties Committee
retired in favor of the Personal
Services Agency, with Mr. Smith
stating that his committee would
function with regard to summer
employment for veterans.

She Gazette
nets

The GAZETTE regrets the
commission of several errors in
an article about the S. C. M. in
last week’s issue.

In correction; Prof. Page is

 

leading a discussion group on
“Personal Relations’, not speaking on the subject; the S. C. M.
is not sponsoring the conference
mentioned,—-the sponsoring com~
mittee gonsists of students from
all organizations.

For those interested in Bible
study there is a meeting on Sunday evenings at the home of Dr.
Bronson, 10 Studley Ave., at 8.30
Pe

Rev. J. W. A. Nicholson will
lead another group at 5.30 P. M.
on Thursday evening to discuss
“Christianity and Social Action.”

A fourth group, to discuss the
“Fundamental Beliefs of the Christian Faith’’; will be presided over
by Rev. Frank Lawson at 4.30 on
Friday afternoons in Room 3 of
the Arts Building.

 

 

Co-Vets Plan
Active Year

The Dalhousie Student Veterans’ Association now has a female counterpart in the form of
the Dathousie Co-Vets Association. Open to wives of civilian
students and ex-service girls, this
group, as yet, has had only the
attendance of wives of veteran
students.

To date the association has
held a theatre party, a bowling
tournament and a picnic, and
similar functions are planned for
later in the year.

At the last meeting the following efficers were elected for the
coming year: President, Mrs. C.
Havey, Viice-President, Mrs. P.
Walker, Recording Sec’ty., Mrs.
G. Frail, Corresponding Sec’ty.,
Mrs. C. McCurdy, Treasurer, Mrs.
G. Faulkner.

Chosen to head the various
committees of the association
were Mrs. H) Haley for Entertainment, Mrs. V. Doucette for
Refreshments, Mrs. J. Cantwell
for Publicity and Mrs. Bob Mitchell for the Visiting Committee.

The next meeting, to be held at
Mulgrave Park Recreation Hall,
will take the form of a bridge
party on Wednesday, November
27. South End members are requested to meet at the Capitol at
7.45,

C.C_U.F. Sets

Clauses For Membership

November 14—That membership in the Dalhousie CCUF be
granted to applicants holding a
Dalhousie or King’s Student
Council Card who express the desire to study the theory of democratic Socialism as represented
by the Co-operative Commonwealth Federation was decided
upon after a lengthy discussion in
# meeting held this afternoon.

The general eonsensus of opinion was that the membership
should not be restrictive, but the
report that other similar groups
in Canada had been broken up by

(Continued on Page 8)

CANADA'S

PHARMACY
STUDENTS
ORGANIZE

The combined classes of °47749 in Pharmacy turned out en
masse at Room-19 in the Medical
Sciences Building on Wednesday
noon of this week for the purpose
of forming a students’ union for
Pharmacy. The name chosen for
the union, “The Pharmacy Society of Dalhousie University.”

A constitution was drawn up
with several amendments being
made and the following officers

 

) installed:
President—George Cochrane—
Srd year.
Vice-Pres. — Renault — 2nd
year.

the balance of the slate to be
elected at the next meeting.
Some of the aims of the Society,
beyond those of supporting Pharmacy athletics and social functions
will be to work for the good of
the College, Pharmacy, and the
benefit of the student.

Students eligible will be those
who are registered at Dalhcusie
or Maritime College of Pharmacy
and aiming at a diploma or degree
in Pharmacy.

“It is hoped that the true aims
of Pharmacy will be fostered and
brought to a higher level by
means of open Forums and demonstrations on the part of the
senior students,’ stated Mr.
Cook of the staff of the Pharmacy
College,

Men Needed

It may have been the result of
a recent story in the Gazette, —
or perhaps Haligonians are discovering just how much they need
Personal Services,—but the Personal Services Agency hag reported to the Gazette that they
are flooded with calls. Better—
they are inundated. In fact, so
great has become the demand that
more operators are needed P. D

Q.

The organization has called on
the Gazette for aid in their man
hunt to replenish their ranks.
Any vet interested in replenshing
his weakening pocket-book can do
so by calling 3-5464, and wolunteering,

a

        

 

 

Shirreff Hall
Open to Males

November 16—‘“I just had to
go”, said the Dalhousian, “You
know how it is when one of those
Shirreff Hall girls sets her eye
on you?” He ignored my “No” and
added, “D’ya know, it wasn’t bad
at all. I really wanted to go to
the hockey game, but she said,
‘There'll be hockey games all
winter, and Open House at Shirreff Hal] is too rare to miss’, so I
went along.”

“Helen Beverage and Molly
Schwartz did a fine job of organizing the affair, and you should
have heard Don Warner and his
gang. They really were in top
form’’,

“Eagle Scout, Irvin Milley,
rubbed a small stick against a
box with sand stuck to its side
and transferred the flame that
was produced to some logs in the

* fire place. They should have had

a bigger fire place. There were so
many of us who wanted to warm
our backs, that there just wasn’t
enough room”’,

“Sure, ++e-~ had eats. The girls
had sandwiches and sandwiches
for us.”’

“Am I going to the next Open
House? — You bet I am, or—
well, I’ll go if she still has her eye
set on me.”

The Literary Editor wishes to
thank Messrs. Jack MacCormack,
P. J. O’'Hearn and G. A. MacKay
for their series of articles on
Nova Scotia’s economic position,
which received no byline due to
an error. Nova Scotia... The Way
Out, which appeared in the Nov.
8th issue of the Gazette, was the

last of four papers on this sub- :

ject.

 

OUR FEMALES ARE FAIREST.
FINEST, for Us, FOREVER -
FLASH—“Toronto girls have square legs’,
claim Manitoba university students.
FLASH—"Our girls are the best in the world”,

claim Toronto students,

And while this petty controversy wages fiercely
in the west, we Maritime students benignly smile,
for we KNOW—OUR COEDS ARE THE

 

MATE.

The consensus of opinion of the Dal students

who have travelled across Canada is this:

“British Columbia girls have barrel-legs from

ULTI
ee

climbing Smountains.”’
“Prairie girls have broom-stick legs from not
(Continued on Page 8)

OLDEST STUDENT PUBLICATION

Engineers Have
Vertical Trip

“I think that Dal engineers are what News Glasgow girls have
been waiting for,” was a comment (solicited, but not dictated) received from one of the Engineers’ annual trip, which was directed this
year at Trenton Industries, just outside New Glasgow.

The trip, held under the auspices of the Engineering Society,
started early Menday morning, when a motley crowd of prospective
boilermakers gathered around the side door of the Engineering building, stamping their feet, and complaining of the cold and the delay.
Things soon began to happen, at least enough things to get them to
New Glasgow for-lunch and as much shopping as needed to be done.

 

On arrival, they were shown
through the plant of the Eastern
Car and Foundry, where they had
a chance to see at first hand the
methods they had studied in the
classroom.

Returning to New Glasgow
they ‘proceeded to find out whe-’
ther or not the rumors were true
about the beauty of the young
ladies of that town. It was soon
decided that they were, and when
they left such statements with
the reporter as ‘the jdeal college
Joe”, “more interesting than Arts.
students” and “they’re tops’, it
was realized that their perspicacity and cr¥ical acumen were remarkable as well.

However, as time passed and
the hour of departure arrived (marked by tearful farewells and
shouts of “where in ———— is
McKeough?”) the stalwarts assembled at the bus, ready for the
return trip. The long voyage
home was marked by a sharp division between those who wanted
to stay awake. »& ~gompromise
was reached when, in the middlesized hours of the morning, the
bus bumped into the cobbles of
Halifax.

Another voyage was over.

NOTICE BOARD

November 26—8 P. M. in Y. M.
C. A.

Speaker; Dr. Stephen Taylor,
Labour M. P. for North London.

Topic; “Cradle to Grave”

November 24—7 P. M. in Kings
Chapel

S. C. M. Worship—ALL WELCOME.

LOST—Silver
initialled EJS.

Sentimental value.—Reward—
Finder please return to Ted
Shields, Institute of Public Affairs.

*OST—Red Waterman’s Foun.
tain Pen—no clip—Lost by Gym.
Please return to Gazette office.

cigarette case

 

R. A. Currie, prominent Pro—
gressive Conservative Party member, has agreed to address a meeting sponsored by the C. C. U. F..
on Thursday noon Nov. 28 in:
Room 3 of the Arts building.

S. C. M. worship service Sun~
day 7 p. m. King’s Chapel.


JOTTINGS
A Med’s eye view of the Law
Ball: We had a wonderful time—
grand hosts, our brothers of torts
and procedure and all,

 
i,
Art

=

 

‘ % >
_

 

poe Page Four

DAL CO-EDS

~

 

    
     

On She
Didelines

BY DON HARRIS

Congratulations are in order to Mount Allison on their winning
the Maritime Intercollegiate Rugby Championship at Studley last Sat
-urday, and to St. F. X. for the game battle they waged against Mt. A.

‘he game was a thriller from start to finish, and Dal students were
fortunate to be able to see the contest played on their own field. At
the same time, they had an opportunity to compare the merits of the
English and Canadian games, as a high school game was played, at the
Recreation Centre on the same afternoon.

Both games were witnessed by large crowds, but it seems rather
significant that the high school match outdrew the collegiate tilt, even
though the latter was a championship affair. Again, the Rugby game
was timed so that it would not conflict with the Canadian game, as the
backers of the former feared the competition offered by such a drawing card as the Canadian contest. These facts seem to uphold the
views of exponents of the Canadian game, who claim that it would
meet with considerable success, if played by the Maritime Universities,
and would be far more popular than the English game, which they now
play.

The thatter is certainly worth consideration, especially by Dalhousie, and it might prove worthwhile to consider some of the more
important aspects of such a move.

The major points to, discuss are finances, coaching, and practices,
with emphasis upon the financial aspect. When Canadian football is
mentioned, the first comment is that it is too expensive to buy equipment for the game. An authoritative Navy spokesman has stated that
a 36 man team could be completely outfitted at an approximate cost
of $1500.00, which would provide enough uniforms to allow for two
full practice teams with spares. At the same time, these uniforms
would be available for interfaculty play, which would greatly encourage participation,

The actual cost would be remunerated plus within a very short
period by the funds taken in on gate receipts, which would increase
many fold with the introduction of this game, if present turnouts at
the high school tilts are any indication. An examination of the gate
receipts of Western universities shows a big margin of profit, due to

the spectator attraction of the Canadian game.

from the viewpoint of coaching, the problem is a little more difficult, and will prove to be the main obstacle, although there seems to
be several men around the city and throughout the Maritimes, who
are well versed in the game, as witness the showing of St. Mary’s
against Montréal. For the first couple of years everyone would experience difficulties, no doubt, but it seems likely that they would soon
master the fundamentals of the Canadian game, with the aid of many
students on the various campi, who have played the Canadian game
elsewhere in Canada.

As far as practice hours are concerned, most Maritime colleges
could find the time without difficulty, and Dal, where the situation is
already unsatisfactory, might very well follow the successful practice
of many universities, and bring the players back to college one or two
weeks earlier than the rest of the student body. I think this might be
an idea worth considering, whether Dal plays Canadian or English
football in future years.

It is rather difficult to gauge player preference between the two
games, as most players have experience in only one of the games, or
having played both in some instances, usually prefer the game they
learned first. Some people claim that the English game permits every
player to handle the ball, whereas the Canadian game does not. In

f

PLUS TAX
OR TAXES

 

        

‘.".
“*e.* =
POP or
ee
ee
Pe
er Oy
ad

re
Oe

FASTEST SELLING
CIGARETTE TOBACCO

 

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE ...

HANDED FIRST LOSS

Here We Go
Again; Dal

vs. Forbes

A statement in yesterday’?
daily newspapers quotes Major
B. S. Forbes’ answer to the report of Tennis Manager Ian Rusted.

Included in Forbes’ remarks
are certain statements of facts as
he knew them, but which are at
variance with the facts as understood by Dal Athletic authorities.
Forbes attempts to explain away
the term foreigners, devoting considerable space to the issue, but
very obviously ignores the reference to not wanting the Dal team
in the past, present or future, or
any other Dal teams. He implies
that his use of the term foreigners was only concerned with Dal
being outside the C.LILU,

He states emphatically ‘that
MeGill has never claimed the Canadian championship, yet the Oct.
29th issue of the McGill Daily
has this to say—in headlines on
page three—*RED NETMEN DEFEAT SASKATCHEWAN FOR
DOMINION TITLE”; and _ the
writeup of the matches contains
this—“ENABLING McGILL UNIVERSITY TO COP THE CANADIAN UNIVERSITY TITLE”,

Forbes also says that “at thé
time of the Dal challenge the McGill tennis team had already put
away their racquets for the year’,
which statement, if true, puzzles
us, because Dal challenged McGill
before they played Saskatchewan.
If his statement is correct, then
a phantom McGill team defeated
the Saskatchewan squad on Oct.
28th and Oct. 29th, since D. A.
A. C, prexy Dave Boig spoke to
the McGill authorities on Monday
night, Oct. 28th, while the tournament was still in progress, fol
(Continued on Page 8)

Shipyards
Defeat Dal
Soccer Squad

Dal Tigers’ Soccer team bowed
to a stronger Shipyards’ aggregation on Saturday afternoon and
finished on the short end of a 3
to 0 score. While Shipyards held
the edge of the play through most
of the game, the fighting Tigers
showed unexpected” strength in
resisting their more experienced
opponents.

The first score was tallied by
Morrison of Shipyards on a long
shot from the corner shortly before the end of the first period.
The Tigers showed a flash of
fighting spirit at the opening of

 

_ Friday, November 22, 1946

 

 

Acadia Posts 4-2
Win Against Dal

Dals co-ed hockey team dropped its first match of the season
to a fighting Acadia squad that was determined to post one in the wins
column, where they had not figured before. Although play was even
and neither team had a great territorial advantage, the fight and spirit
of Acadia were not to be denied, and they came out on the long end

of a 4-2 score.
larly in the latter half.

The game was the roughest one of the season, particuAcadia were the chief offenders, with sticks

flying high and body-checking being too general.

Outdoor Rink

(Continued from Page 1)
dent support, as a few cannot possibly handle such an undertaking.

One of the main uses for the
rink would be for interfaculty
hockey in the daytime, while

skating sessions would be run in
the evenings, with Dal students
getting on by showing Council
Cards, outsiders paying a small
admission fee.

The actual care of the rink
would fall on the shoulders, or at
any rate, should, of the students.
If enough interested students
would offer to help, there would
be little work for each individual,
and therefore, no one would be
overburdened. Those interested
in seeing a rink on the Dal campus, and wishing to help, are
asked to get in touch with John
MacCormack at his office in the
Gym, and the students, in general, are urged to support this
plan to augment Dal’s
tional facilities.

recrea
Speakers

(Continued from Page 1)
held on discharge, in which case
the higher rank would be retained.

Dr. F. M. C. Goodspeed made
it clear that he had no connection
with the three services, but wished
to enlist men for scientific and
defence research, saying: “We
all know the value of research in
the fighting of a war.” Canada’s
part in such research will be to
concentrate on certain specific
matters and supplement the work
of the United States and Britain.
Jobs with research departments

a i Dalal eeintesieal
the second, carried the ball dangerously close to the Shipyards’
goal but lacked the strength to
score. At the halfway mark the
Shipyards regained control and
carried the play deep into Dal
territory for a profit of two markers, making the final score 3 to 0.

It was the Tigers’ first game of
the season and lack of practice
was clearly evident, although the
players showed surprising strength
and ability to absorb the offensive
rushes’ of their experienced opponents.

 

any case, whether this claim is right-or wrong, it seems to be a rather
minor issue, since, in both games every player has a definite task to
perform, and regardless of who handles the ball, team play wins games,
It could be added that certain athletes are fitted for certain types of
athletic efforts, but not usually for all types, and ball handling is not

always one of their assets, but this need not

eliminate them from

participation in the game, as they may be good tacklers and blockers.
For the past two years there has been considerable talk about

changing to the Canadian game in Dalhousie,

Maritime union.

if not in the whole

Even if Dal alone made the initial change, it would

be a feasible step, as they could form a league with St. Mary’s and the

Navy, which would provide good competition,

Students on other Mari
tien are raising the question as well, and there seems to be good

reason for expecting a wholesale change within the next few years.
One thing that people should not do, is to let tradition and preju
dice guide their decision, but rather, compare the merits of the two

possibilities, and then choose the best game upon that basis.

I would

like to see the D.A.A.C. consider the matter, and perhaps hold an open
Yorum to discuss the problem. At the same time, we would invite Side.
line comment from the student bedy.

Dalhousie took the lead in the
first half on two quick goals, Pat
Snuggs tallied the first and
Frances Doane, who played a
steller game throughout for the

Dalhousians, countered again
within five minutes. Acadia
gained control of the play and

before the half ended Ginger Fraser of Acadia made it 2-1 for
Dalhousie. Jean Mitchell again
showed her skill and agility in the
goal as she stopped many difficult
shots, while the Dal defence repulsed many Acadia onrushes.
The second half of the game
featured the gang-attacks of the
Acadia team and the well-hit shots
of their defence. Sandy Sterling tied the score, as Jean Mitchell had no chance on a flukey

shot. Bertie Leslie, Acadia’s
standout shot, scored their last
two goals in the final ‘quarter,

when the Dal. defence was caught
far up-field trying to feed the
ball to the hard-working forwards
several times, Dal succeeded in
getting’ the ball in the Acadia
goal-circle, but Acadian fullbacks
repeatedly cleared it out. When
the final whistle blew, Dal was
still pressing.

After the game, the Acadia
team entertained the Dalhousie
players and thus ended a most

successful ground-hockey season
for Dalhousie, with four wins and
one loss in five starts.

(SSS i Oe rere Se
were available for the summer.

Additional facts are to be had
from the Director General of Research, New Army Building, Ottawa.

Renn
Finest Quality
SPORTS EQUIPMENT

 

cShunneys Lniled

456 Barrington St.

 

Corsages

A “Colonial” Corsage designed by ROSEDALE
speaks eloquent volumes
of tenderness and love.

 

38] NURSERIES Limited...
BARRINGTON /sT- HALIFAX

ees
SS SSeeesesssissssnssensnstey~nenenee

Fader's Drug Stores

135 HOLLIS STREET
29 COBURG ROAD

Halifax Nova Scotia
ee,

Ca ; ( ;

 
Ns

watch.

She) erat

di Fe November 2%, 1946

CAMPUS

ROUNDUP

fy WINDY O’NEILL
‘The students of Dalhousie were

‘fortunate in being able to witness
‘the Mount A.-St. F. X. contest
on Saturday last.

tion the game was second only to

the Dal-Navy thriller played ear- |

lier in the season. Having watch
‘ed rugger all season, I must admit it to be a good game, but will

still have to take Canadian football as being the superior sport.
After all, the Canadian game is
just a streamlined, improved ver
sion of old English rugger; is bet
ter to play and certainly better to
It is significant that a

game with inexperienced, 16
‘year-old, high school kids outdrew
‘the Maritime championship

con
test with, supposedly, the best

‘players in the Maritimes, and they

certainly did not hesitate, in the
least, in competing with it. Canadian football will replace English
rugger here, as sure as the electrie light replaced the oil lamp.
Bie Tae om

We are wondering WHAT became of that nice, plump cat that
used to play with our frayed trou
ser cuffs as we at that daily,
home-cooked meal in the Gym
Store?—and also WHY can we
now SEE in the dark? ? ?
% * * % *
I like the shaggy dog story
about the freshman who went

into the Student Health Service
with a badly mangled ear.
“ “My goodless,” exclaimed the

doctor, “how did you ever do~
that?”

“Oh,”’ replied ine frosh, “I bit
ie”

‘But that’s a physical impossibility,” said the medic.

“T know,” replied the student,
unabashed, “but I was standing
on a chair!”

A * cal +

After a great, and incidentally
prosperous season, the big Canadian football circuit finished up
with Western being champions by
virtue of an undefeated untied
season, beating their close rivals,
the U. of T., right in Toronto before 19,000 fans.

D.G.A.C.

In the last match fo the season,
the Dal ground hockey team suffered their first defeat at the
hands of the Acadia Eleven on
Tuesday by a score of 4-2. Although this broke their record of
no losses, the Dal girls can still
claim the ground hockey with 4
wins and 1#loss. Next year it is
hoped to have Mount A. and, Me
N. B. in the league.

About nine girls attended the
swimming practice last Thursday
with Mr. Stein, the
ming Coach giving them a work
‘ out and a start in water polo.

Badminton is still going strong.
It is hoped that a team will be
able to play Stad before Christmas, ‘

Ann Saunderson, Ginny Philips
and Norma Sherman of the Grad
teams turned out Tuesday evening

(Continued on Page 8)

~EVANGELINE
TEA ROOM

Commonly known as JOE’S
280 Quinpool Road
HALIFAX, N. S.

In our estima- |

Dal swim- ‘

  
     

. THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

 

Several Dal basketball aspirants take to the air in a practice workout.

Bath We! Mo Gre yea inv sevccso casas

Frosh

Law’s power-packed football
team ended a most successful
season last Thursday when they
captured the championship of the
Interfac football league by defeating Dal’s Engineers 3-0. The
game was bitterly fought and
proved to be the most exciting
league contest of the season.

Weakness in the scrum and
poor heeling, particularly in the
first half, resulted in the downfall of the Engineers. Out of a
total of 20 scrums in this half the
“Boilermakers”? heeled the ball
only three times, and as a result,
Law kept the play deep inside Engineer territory during the entire
thirty. minutes. Good tackling
and a fighting spirit on the part
of the Engineers were all . that
kept Law from running up a
much higher score in this half.
Time and again Law’s smoothworking line came within an
“ace” of going over only to run
into an Engineer stonewall. However, the payoff came at the 14
minute mark, when Dave Chur
chill-Smith, picking the ball up
from a two-man scrum, passed to
speedy Russ MacEwan, who
plunged ten yards to score Law’s
‘all important” try. Smith missed the convert from a difficult
angle and Law continued to press,
but to no avail, for the remainder
of the first half.

Three points down, the rugged
Engineers came back “fighting
mad’’ in the second half. Their
scrum seemed greatly improved
but were still outheeled by Law,
15 to 10. The play was much

TOP e ee ee ee eee ee eee eee)

 

Law Victors In
Football

Final

more even during this half, swaying from one end to the other.
The Engineers missed several
nice scoring chances in the first
ten minutes when they pressed in
deep, only to have Law kick
clear,

In a last minute effort to tie
the score, the Engineers. sent

(Continued on Page 8)

 

ORPHEUS Theatre

Friday and Saturday

GEORGE FORMBY

“IT’S IN THE AIR”
and “LAWLESS BREED”

Mon.—Tues.—_Wed.
‘SECRET OF THE WHISTLE’

and “LAND RUSH”

 

        
   
    
     
 
 
           
       
       
      
   
   
   

CASINO

AN ODEON THEATRE

  

Now Playing—

“Caravan’’

 
  

———— oe

_———__..

STEWART GRANGER

   
   

  

    
   
 

with

  
  
  

and JEAN KENT

WA ay

, ge to . aS > ee | ‘ i
SES pi ee

Dal Ti gers Withdraw From City
Senior “Basketball Competition

 

D.A.A.C.

 

    

Clarify

Sport Situation

The governing body of athletics met Sunday morning to discuss
the latest developments in the world of sport.

The first topic on the agenda was the classification of the status
of tennis, swimming and soccer teams as discussed by the D.A.A.C,

at the semi-annual meeting,
lowing decisions subject to the

stitution will be followed with the
substitution of minor felt ‘‘D”’ for
Major felt ‘‘D” in Article 27, section 3, sub-section (a), part VI.

(2) Seccer—A minor “D” will
be awarded to a player  participating in 75 per cent of practices and 75 per cent of games,
under such conditions that the
team participates in a league or
series of games, approved by the
Managing Committee.

(3 Swimming—a major felt
*“D” shall be awarded to a member who, while representing Dalhousie in swimming, gains five
points in any senior meet during
the season having the approval of
the Managing Committee. These
points shall be scored as follows:

5 points for first place.

3 points for second place.

1 point for third place.

2 1-2 points for each member
of a relay
place.

1 1-2
of a
place.

(4) Track shall now read the
same as swimming. The physical
director told the Committee that
Gordon “Doggie’’ Kuhn has been
secured as coach for the hockey
team this year and that should
bolster the team a great deal.
Hockey practices will start the

team winning first

points for each member
relay team winning second

last of this month and _ notices
will be posted soon.

At the beginning of the fall
term next year an interfaculty

tennis league will be organized.
The league may be worked as was
the Intercollegiate play this year,
or it may be on a team basis.
Swimming practices have already started and those interested should report to John MacCormack or King Churchill.

Oxford Theatre

 

Fri. and Sat. hy
“SUSPENSE” with  Belito,
and “IN FAST COMPANY”

with East Side Kids.
Mon., Tues. and Wed.

“DRAGONWICK,” starring
Gene Tierney, Walter Huston.
Thurs., Fri.‘and Sat.

“JANIE GETS MARRIED”
with Joan Leslie and “FLYING
TIGERS” starring John Wayne.

 

——

FAMOUS
PLAYERS
THEATRE

Thurs.—Fri.—Sat.

“Kid From Brookly”

with DANNY KAYE,
VIRGINIA MAYO

Mon.—Tues.—Wed.

“Claudia and David”

with ROBERT YOUNG
and DOROTHY McGUIRE

 

The Managing Committee made the fol:
>proval of the D.A.A.C.:
(1) Tennis—The present con-
Plans are being laid for starting the interfacurty basketball
league first thing after Christmas,
Lee Currie and the interfaculty
basketball manager, Frank Rogers, are working on the tentative schedule and they would like
all the interfaculty managers to
get in touch with them by November 27th to discuss the schedule.

This year, the D.A.A.C, has its
own Malcolm Honor Award, a
large trophy presented by the photographer, Climo, to the outstanding all-round athlete of the
year. It will be a coveted prize,
the inscription reading: “The
Climo Trophy, to
each year to the Dalhousie student who best embodies the qualities of athletic ability, clean
sportsmanship, and team spirit.”

It is hoped by the Managing
Committee that this award will
be looked up to and will represent the type of athletes that Dal
should always put out.

THE
CAMERA
SHOP

26 BLOWERS STREET.
HALIFAX, N. S.

Everything
Photographic

       

&
®&

  

CARMINE RED 745

asthe

ee
—————

_#
te ro

A BENDABLE,
DEPENDABLE
COLORED LEAD.

Imagine a lead so
flexible it will bend
like a bow!

Imagine a lead that
will take a point in
the dullestsharpener
. . « and make over
4,000 check marks
before it needs repointing!

10c each, less in quantities. it

wR
S sacksconee

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   

EAGLE “CHEMI* SEALED

Sa

Me Ty esy

P30) 22 dele). i3p)

at

COLORED PENCILS

—

be awarded .

 
 
  
   

(OG
, iL ag
ee

       
   
  
  
   
     
  

#_!

ui

+

B- %
BES
wa

ee mal

   

ie.
eek

~) a
de

As 1
EY,

A
‘
aNd
a)
bh Sy
eel
:
2 Ht
a
eS

T
nT

ft yee
rs rf
NA

  
 
 

ey Tae)
AE

Re re
eh Saat mi

A ”
ant Ja Ni }

  

I

|
“| ) ae Ne ,
Papers %, 11/2 eS
TA Oe
7 )

ree

ere re pe +
Nee ye cere
c wt , 4

)

a ae
eae a


‘THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

TRRARY...

 
 
 

  

Friday, November 22, 1946

 

Chains Of Steel...
f Of Gelatine ...
Of Glass ...

“Man is born free, and everywhere he is in chains. One man
thinks himself the master of others, but remains more of a slave than

sah they are.”—Rousseau. 
Following the organization of a group of students interested in
the study of Socialist politics (I wish I could use the word philosophy),
there appeared an anonymous farce in these pages. Hard against it
came a sturdy reply, whose author’s name appeared in bold capitals
both at the beginning and the end. Congratulations are in order: to
the author of THE RED PERIL, for his discretion in introducing the
subject, withholding his name and casting his material in the form
which tradition has shown attracts most student attention; to the
author of WHY NOT TRY SOCIALISM? for his candid, informative
declaration of political faith; to the university, for what appears to
be a gratifying alertness and response.

In the hope that the matter
will not be allowed to drop, either
by the editors of The Gazette or
by students at large, these reflections are offered, certainly not by
an authority on political doctrine
or social conditions, but by one
of many who still seek the temporal salvation of man.

Traditional Liberalism,  traditional Conservatism, and traditional Socialism (yes, the precepts of Socialism are as old as
Lycurgos—see Plutarch) are now
hopelessly obsolete, inadequate.
It is tragically necessary to remind a generation which has just
achieved the power of entre-detrui, and which adorns its cafes,
children’s toys, confectionary and
coiffurage with the name of that
power, that none of the political
thought which preceded the first
experimental blast provides material comfort for those who have
nothing more concrete to anticipate than destruction in the next.

History up to the first blast records nothing but transitions from
one phase to another, the transitions usually being at least as
long as the phase. An American
professor of Political Science defines a transitional period as “a

period of transition from one
transitional period to another
transitional period.” It. was im
possible to indicate a positive decation between the white of
one phase and the black of the
next. It is impossible to say, for
‘example, exactly when the Middle Ages ended and the RenaisSance began.
_ History has always been grey,
but immediately before that blast
it became blinding white, then jet,
hopelessly black. There was no
twilight transitional period, yet
the most advanced of our politieal thinking is light grey, with a
suggestion of delicate pink.
“Canadians like to think that
they are sensible, adventurous
and progressive. I laugh. When
election time rolls along, only a
third of eligible voters will go to
the polls, and only a few of them
will have a lasting interest in
politics.” Don’t laugh, Mr.° Miller, Think. The situation is anything but humorous,

Because of the existence of a
decayed world-wide social fabric,
I was taken from my home and
my studies. Naturally I bitterly
resented these conditions. I was
on a ship for the United King
_ dom four days after I drew uniforms, and my resentment had
hot been obliterated yet in the

dumb, helpless exasperation of

_ umreasoning, unrelenting naval
_ discipline. Six consecutive nights
I lay awake on my tiny pipe
_ berth, in the incredible stench of

‘Sweating, naked, unwashed bodies,

my head between two feet, my
feet straddling another, bodily
contact above and below from
the proximity of the berths, of
which there were more than three
hundred in the small lounge.

I accepted the conditions which
made this discomfort necessary,
and busied myself with plans for
the brave new world. At the end
of the trip I had a magnificent
plan which must surely solve all
problems. I suggest this exercise
to all interested. It brings some
remarkable things to light.

It seemed that the only political party in England which would
sponsor my plan was the Labor
Party, so in six months I battered
my way up to the drawing room
(cracked plaster, unclosable
doors, new glass in the windows
—a V2) of a man whose name I
first encountered in English IA
and much of whose printed work
I had read, Harold Laski.

Here I discovered my horrible
guilt. I had been guilty for
eighteen years of the unpardonable crime of all youth—the
state of being young. My generation have been punished for
their guilt, have been sacrificed
at the altar of their judges’ ignorance and folly. The best of
them are dead.

On this occasion, hewever, I
was merely sent to the corner,
where I sat and moaned with all
the intolerance to which my generation is entitled, while a roomfull of Cambridge and London
professors, War Office experts,
party heads, and war correspondents discussed rare books and
listened to Laski’s imitations of
Winston Churchill.

My career as a traditional Socialist ended, rather illogically I
confess, as I supported Laski’s
hand in my own in farewell, and
commenced a four-hour walk
through London in furious silence
and in the company of the great
man who had taken me _ there
against his better judgment and
whose last spoker words to me
were words of apology.

Yet, to those who like to consider themselves Marxists, I
commend Laski’s interpretation
and definition, (There is an
essay entitled “Why I am a Marxist” in the English IA text, PATTERNS FOR LIVING, yet we
find its author Laski “‘a disciple of
Fabius” in TIME, November 11
—a characteristic Laski inconsistency.)

Mr. Miller, do not accept words
written in half jest as “obvious.”
Do not make definite statements
about the outlook of a person
whose very name you profess not
to know. Remember, what is apparent to you needs not of necessity be obvious to your readers.

STUDENT MUSIC

When considering the recent concert given by the Ladies’ Musical
Club, which consisted almost entirely of student artists, I am struck by
one feature (I shall not call it a mistake) which was fairly ebvious
throughout; this was the fact that the students chose to attempt diffieult operatic works and instrumental pieces which were a trifle heavy,
rather than lighter selections more suited to their undeveloped talents.
‘here were, nevertheless, some very creditable performances of diffi
cult pieces,

I feel, however, that some of the students would have been

wiser to select choices which came more within their technical abilities.

 

Mr. Seabiscuit, enough belles
lettres. Remember, McGosh
himself, when he referred to
matters of cosmic controversy,

merely touched lightly in his insolent fashion and passed on in
good haste. Do not cheapen
yourself by imitation. The farce
served its purpose.

Man’s nature requires that he
live with, ard dependent upon,
his fellow-man, Thereby he finds
himself in a position where selfinterest and community interest
fail to agree. The larger the
community, the more violent the
disagreement. (It is pessible
that there is a maximum point
beyond which this conflict decreases—herein lies our hope of
world unity.) As Rousseau says,
man is in chains. Upon what
kind of chains he chooses depends
existence or oblivion, and he has
very few years in which to choose.

In erder to choose, he must be
enlightened.

For his enlightenment he relies
on you, Mr. Seabiscuit, on you
Mr. Miller, and on all of us who,
if there be no sin but ignorance,
are spending these best years of
our lives seeking absolution.

GEOFFREY PAYZANT.

Plumber (arriving late): “How
have you managed?”

Householder: ‘Not so badly.
While we were waiting for you
to come, I taught the children to
swim.”’

Every

 

Student

 

..- should

answer
these
questions:

“How SOON do I need to have
€ imsurance?’’ \n most cases
e answer is: Justas soonas you
afe earning, or earlier if there isa
need. Your life insurance should
provide SAVINGS for yourself,
and PROTECTION for those dendent on you, now or in the
ture. Remember, the earlier
you start your Mutual Life insurance Progen, the easier it
will be for you to carry...

“Does it matter WHICH life
imsurance company I choose?”
it does! Life insurance companies are much alike as to
policies and rates, but actual

long-term results vary widely.
We invite you to compare The

THE

  

LL ay LL:

HEAD OFFICE « WATERLOO, ONTARIO

For instance, Betty Sly, whe
sang the Gavotte from Mignon,
and Earl Ducette and June Grant,
who sang the“Love Duet from
Madame Butterfly, might have
been more suited to Wagner;
Marion Lee Dewis, who played
the first movement of Beethoven’s
Sonata number one very creditably, should never have tackled
the Polonaise Militaire, which requires tremendous strength and
manual dexterity to perform.
Frances Saulnier’s performance
of the Kreisler Rondo was very
good, but it was apparently a little beyond her technical abilities.

The performances which showed real insight into the music
were the interpretations’ of Neil
Van Allen, who gave a splendid
rendition of Liszt’s extremely difficult Spanish Rhapsody; and
that of Lorna Roome, who played
the andante from Lalo’s Symphonic Espagnole, and Kreisler’s
transcript of Boldini’s Dancing
Doll; and that of June Grant and
Earl Ducette, who managed to
combine good singing and _ the
true spirit of Buccini with (rarer
still) good Italian in the Love
Duet, in spite of a somewhat insipid accompaniment.

An interesting feature was the
performance of the first movement of Haydn’s Symphony in D
by the New Glasgow Community
Orchestra. This symphony, although it is listed in some old

 

 
 
 
 
  

Mutual Life of Canada's record
with that of any other company.
Evidence of the satisfaction of
our policyholdersis furnished by
the fact that whole families and
succeeding generations have
entrusted their life insurance
programs exclusively to The
Mutual Life of Canada, and
each yeat approximately 35%
of its new business comes from
our policyholders. Ask your
Mutual Life representative to
explain the special features of
this Company.

Low Cost

   

a

German editions as the number
two, is actually Haydn’s last, and
is better known as his “London
Symphony,” the one hundred and
fourth on ‘Mandyezewski’s lists.
Haydn himself, in a catalogue of
the compositions that he recalled
having written since the age of
eighteen, called it the one hundred and eighteenth. His  biegrapher, Pohl, called it the one
hundred and ninth, and it is listed by Fuchs and Wotquenne as
number one hundred and fortyfour, by Salomoa as the seventh
London Symphony and by Zulehner as humber seventy-five. The
Mandyczewski listing is the one
usually followed. It is the last of
twelve symphonies written during
Hadyn’s second visit to London,
and was first performed in May,
1795, as a benefit concert where
Haydn took in 4,000 gulden,
equivalent to about two thousand
dollars. As Haydn put it, “The
whole company was very pleased,
and so was I.”

On the whole it was a very
pleasant concert, and it is to be
hoped that similar ones wiil be
presented in future.

TONY BIDWELL.

 

VENUS

VELVET.

PENCILS ARE

 

    
  

This means that
the lead is actually
bonded to the wood.

You can’t buy. better

school pencils !

VENUS PENCIL CO., LTD., TORONTO

 

 

 
i

‘*)

yh

a

}

 

”

 

i
t
‘
my xg

, 7

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

prog OR AIHeE UR E'S

 
   

 

—To the Forgotten Man—

,

I had thought this week to

write a few lines exposing med
icine to you, our cadet comradesin-arms, the pre-meds of Studley.
But rather than wring poor comedy from the chosen profession,
I can better say, “If you are a
pre-med, stick to it.”

I am a veteran of two months
in med school and my oo
will cause some of my class to
smile wryly. But, it’s true, medicine is worth it! — é

I feel even now that much of
the discouragement that I felt in

_ my pre-med years could have been
eased to some great extent.

Particularly, after coming back after
an absence of six long years. The
Great Divide between the grim
abstraction of Chem. 2, Chem. 4,
Zoology 2, and Physics, and the
pre-clinical realities will soon be
crossed. It is not easy and, perhaps, I sing my hopeful song
from the steps of the scaffold, but
it’s worth it!

I would like to stress that for
the veterans especially medicine
is the place for your knowledge
of men, your respect for individ
ual personality (whether he be

saint or sinner, batman or Brigadier). It will certainly demand

 

On Monday morning, a bunch

of bedraggled specimens of humanity shuffled up the Law
School stairs. These were the
boisterous Law students of a former week, redueed to infirm
wrecks by the weekend’s festiyities. The reason for all this?...
Why the Law Ball and consequent
celebrations of course,

However, when the clouds cleared, and eyes were again turned
to Salmond, Ames, The Law Reports and such interesting fiction,
the legal lads were unanimous as
to the success of the said Ball.

Now that Law has won the interfaculty football title, sports
ei ats are looking for a repeat
performance on the basketball
floor. The Law team already has
one victory over the Dal Inter
mediate under their belts and will
spare no pains to keep the record

your staying power, your faith
and your heart but, it’s worth sins
it.” The pride that is stirred by ;
the name of the regiment, the In closing, we caution you not
squadron or the ship will be to pay any attention to verses
rightly invested in this, your med like the following:

school.

We all, consciously or no, join
in saying: Come into medicine,
it’s a tough fight but the company
is fine and IT’S WORTH IT!!

He saw a lawyer killing a viper
On a dunghill hard by his own
stables;
And the Devil smiled, for it put
him in mind
Of Cain and his brother Abel.

GAZETTE
* GAMBOL
Friday

Nov. 29

Riary OF Sanuel Peeps

Nov. 20: Up betimes, about 4 o’clock, waked by a damned noise
between a sow gelder and a cow and a dog, nobody after we were up
being able to tell us what.it was. At this early hour I did see the fair
Lady Pat MacKinnon creeping into her room in a most stealthy manner, On enquiry I was disturbed to hear that she was just returning
from an “Open-House”’ at the Hall, which she attended with that gay
young blade, Blair Dunlop. It doth truly seem that the young people
have developed a most unseemly fashion of exchanging Rings, it being reported to me that Lord MacKenzie, of sporting fame had given
his ring to some fair and unprincipled damsel of the town. In the
afternoon to the fields, for a walk, where I did meet, or at least perceive, the gay Miss Hartington and the most notorious Highwayman,
“OOP” Gillis desporting themselves in a very affectionate fashion.
Much disturbed by this, home and to bed.

NOV. 21: Home, and there find my wife making tea, a drink
which the apothecary tells her is good for her cold. It is an infamous
brew and, I fear, unhealthy, but she pays no heed to me. During our
discourse she let me know that our daughter had again been annoyed
by a young scholar from the King’s College who called himself ‘Slim’.
I was greatly angered at this and hence I did set the soldiers on his
trail. Further, my good wife did inform me in a joking fashion that
my old friend Milo*d Foster had, as is the custom these days, given
his ring which he reeeived whilst serving with Nelson, td the fearfully
young Miss Anne Tempkins. This “Fad” is past all reasoning. Did
hit my wife in her large, noisy mouth, the better to quiet her gossip,
and so to bed alone.

NOV. 22: Up at 7 o’clock and, as is my habit, to the Gym Inn.
where I did see various things of note, including the most indecent
view of the past year. Captain Dunphee of the King’s guard did give
Fairlee Prouse a mighty buss on the mouth, which caused quite a
commotion. I did hear further that Captain Dunphee, because of his
miserly habits, must needs accept money from Miss Prouse when he
did take her to the Lawyers’ Festival. Home, and found the man MacDougall come again to my house, and with my wife in our great chamber. Much vexed, I to bed, showing no civility to the man.

SAM PEEPS.

NOTICE. Temporary... help will
be required by the Post Office to
deal with Christmas.. mails, and
employment is available. to students who are free during. this
period. :

 

Preference will be given to exservice students, but it is expected that positions will be available
for.. others. Remuneration.. .70
cents per haur.

 

 

MEDICINE MIRTHLESS MYRON “teil
a MONSTROUS MYTH

Every university has its legendary hero, Dalhousie is no exception. In the annals of Dal sports there will be found no story to.compart with that of Mirthless Myron, the mad, myopic, matman. He was,
in the days when Gold “D’s’” were solid, the champion wrestler of all
Lower Canada.

Myron’s father had been, in his day, A Big Man On The Campus (he weighed 310 pounds). Naturally Myron followed in his
father’s footsteps and at the age of 26 he reported to Dalhousie as a
freshman. Myron was big. He never laughed or smiled. People called
hime *‘Mirthless” Myron. He was interested in wrestling and in no time
he became college champion,

Finally the great inter-collegiate wrestling tourney for 1882 was
arranged. Teams came from all over Lower Canada. There were
huge, brawny men from Arcadia, Saint F, Z., The School for the Deaf,
and The Honourable Company of Royal Artillery. When the semifinals were over, it was discovered that the finalists were to be Mirthless Myron, representing the Gold and Black, and Arnold Armpit, The
Artful Arcadian.

The night of the big event saw the gym full to overflowing. Thousands waited with bated breath as the contestants prepared for the
contest. A great roar went up from the Dal fans as Myron meandered
into the ring—a greater roar went up as he tripped over the ropes and
fell onto the hard floor of the gym. His arm was broken.
carried away the championship for 1882.

In 1884 Dal hopes were high. Mirthless Myron was sure to win.
Alas! Misfortune again dogged our hero’s footsteps. While putting
on his shorts he suffered a charlie-horse, and Arnold Armpit again carried off the crown.

Gloom descended on the student body and plaster of paris descended on Myron’s leg. Myron, never a dramatic person, was moved
te say, through clenched teeth, that next year he would win, no matter
what happened.

March, 1885, saw Mirthless Myron in excellent condition for the
great wrestling match—his last chance, for this year he was to graduate. There were those who claimed that they saw him smile but this
was not generally believed. Everyone knew that Myron never smiled.
That was why he was ealled Mirthless Myron, the mad, myopic (his
eyes were bad) matman.

The night of the great bout saw the stands (or bleachers) at the
rugger field packed,
was decided that it be held outdoors in an improvised ring. As Myron
walked through the crowd and climbed into the ring a breathless
silence was maintained. (Myron must not be rattled, he might have
another accident.)

As Myron flexed his muscles and stalked across the ring toward
his opponent, excitement ran high. Suddenly the Artful Arcadian,
Arnold Armpits had died from a violent attack of chronic housemaid’s
Quickly he was carried from the ring to the dressing room and very
few people noticed the arrow quivering in his back. (The MicMaces,
in 1885, were still holding spring camp in Dartmouth. Subsequently
Mirthless Myron was declared. champion and it was explained that
Arnold Armpit’s had died: from a violent attack of chronic housemaid’s
knee. Although some people were inclined to cast discredit on the
story of Arnold Armpit’s death, there was still great jubilation amongst
the fans. At last the wrestling crown had come to Dalhousie. Tittle
did they know that in 1887 wrestling would be outlawed in the college,

Prodded by this interesting story of a former Dalhousie great, we
looked him up the other day, and found him working as a bouncer at
the Dalo Cafe. When interviewed he said that he received the job,
not because of his education but because of his Dalhousie
with the large felt “D” on it. This served as his uniform.

Arcadai

sweater

Because of the great interest in the match, it.

Comment

“Lord, bless thy chosen in this
place,
For here thou hast a chosen race.’

From the misty recesses of a
cubicle, midst text books and
semi-moronic madness, comes the
mighty voice of Cathedral. We
gaze into our crystal ball and—

Well boys, Awful Awdree
seems to have really declared war
on hot plates. However, on her
recent tour of inspection, none
were uncovered, All clear George,
come out from under the bed,

It appears as if Professor
Fooney, or is it Fanny, had a
difficult time at Norman’s after
the ball. Luckily, Mrs Funny was
present and saved the loss of
blood.

“Men of thought and men of
action, clear the way.’’—Rusty

Milne was elected to the General
Works Committee and Neil MacLean to the Dance Committee, at
the recent D. K. S. V. A. meeting,
Leo McIntyre was elected to attend the Annual Student Veteran
(Continued on Page 8)

ad) a

CANADA'S FINEST
CIGARETTE

 

 

 
  
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
   
 
 
 
   
  
   
  
 

\\
)

Pe

SA Py
= " Wf / , q y 4
. W/ y TA =, - ¥d f
vi yy 4 y 4 J
- od 4 \ : i VLE : hi
s) i) . \ § 4 A y fA / 7 i
' - y / , A 4
WU, \\ Ya
7 Ki Lf pf ae
it i
F , | Le
. i at m
y a La F
\ i! | Ae / uv 2
= “\ ! wi d Zz. a
a\ in) es ae f/ if Y \ ~~ a ==
i . yf i 5 A ) J .
\ tH ry ie
nA " hid | | == o a OY SS Sd
Se : rye 7 _ ae ae naire +) i Ms
{ ‘ i = . < , 7. “
H “3 Th y iz Eee . a
ie = Tae teaser PAL {tard Sh | N ; 2

eater rer,

COCA-COLA LTD.
HALIFAX

 

“Coca-Cola” and its abbreviation “Coke”
are the registered trade marks which

Homework

TRADE MARK REG.

  
 
 

“Mc us aXesiitoam

 

 
eee re Te =

: re
. oa

 

climbing mountains”.

‘““Yes,—Toronto and’ Montreal girls have square

legs’’.

HERE WE GO AGAIN

(Continued from Page 4)
lowing up a wire he had sent
Doig informed them that he had
obtained the money for the trip.

Major Forbes has denied the
veracity of Rusted’s report, but
he has not satisfied us as to the
treatment meted out to the Dal
team, and there is every reason
to believe Rifsted’s report, rather
than Forbes’, in the light of the
conflict between his claims and
the actual] facts as stated in this

ory.
ae on Saturday, Oct. 26th, before play had commenced. He
challenged their right to represent the East in the tournament,
and he was told that McGill weuld
consider the challenge if they defeated the West. They hedged
on the following Thursday, when

LAW VICTORS

(Continued from Page 5)
Goey Bauld to fullback and
brought speedy Bob Wade up to
stand-off half. However, Law’s
heavier scrum again began to
click and the game ended four
minutes later on the Engineers’
five-yard line.

The entire Law team played
outstanding football and it would
be difficult to pick any individual
stars. For the Engineers, Wade,
Menchions, Harris and Bauld
played exceptionally well.

The championship victory closed a very successful season for
what is probably one of the most
powerful football teams to represent the Law School in many 4
day. The team went through all
their games undefeated and unscored upon.

 

 

DANCING

~

SATURDAY

9 p. m. — midnight

NOVA SCOTIAN
HOTEL

 

 
 
  
   
     

Thomes Wallace
SONS & DAUGHTERS

  

Optometrists & Opticians

YY. M. C. A. BUILDING

Halifax, Nova Scotia

OUR FEMALES

(Continued from Page 3)

“Maritime girls have,—well, they have everything—-SO ROUND, SO FIRM, SO FULLY
- PACKED’.’ ;
Girls’ are so beautiful in Mariti
that a movement has been started by males who attend classes to learn, to eliminate co-educational
universities. . ‘We find it impossible to concentrate
on Latin and such interesting subjects with such
gorgeous creatures in our classes’, says the President of the Society for the Elimination of Co-edu
fe universities

 

on the U.B.C.

PHAROS

(Continued from page 1)

tinue to make arrangements prior
to awarding the contract for
printing. After Christmas actual
work on the preparation of the
book for the printer will begin.

‘The Editors point out that
most of this year’s staff are due
to leave Dal at the end of this
year, and-it is therefore imperative that there be some members
of the staff from the second and
third year classes who will be
prepared to take over the boom
next year.

There are still openings in the
art, page design and layout departments for interested students.
The position of Business manager
will be open until Tuesday, November 26.

To date, no satisfactory agreement has been reached with the
Students’ Council of King’s College—and pending such an agreement, King’s students will_not be
represented in Pharos.

Cathedral Comment

(Continued from page 7)

Conference in Montreal.

GENERAL JOTTINGS: We
see that Jerry Morse’s first radio
try was a success. A new section
has been formed in one of the
huts. (Appropriate name, boys)
Rumors are flying that geffeltafish are being seld at Princeton
this year.

Well, as Alex Hart said after
the last Vets’. meeting, “I’m
through.

 

  
   
    
   
 
 
   
     
  
  
   
    

 
 

Sell Canada’s newest, fastest-selling Christmas Cards. Exclusive
with REGAL Sell the 2l-card
feature box for $1, or REGAL'S
famous “Friendship” box of all
occasion cards. Double Sales!
Introduce REGAL’S wonderful new Canadian Scenes Box.
16 cards by famous Canadian
artists, $1.
21 CARD FEATURE ASSORTMENT
REGAL'S new Framed Gift Pictures of anthentic Canadian Scenes are ideal Christmas Peng
Gifts. Sell for $1. Learn the intriguing details. ?
te SO% clear profit. Write NOW for ent’s
1 Catalog. REGAL STATIONERY CO. LTD.,

105 Simeoe St.. Toronto, Ont or
163 W. Hastings St.. Vancouver, B.C. :

en Ae

  

  
 
  

 
 

 
   
 

      

 

ARE FAIREST

cational Universities in the Maritimes.

The Gazette Research staff has proved that the
cartoon of “Lena the Hyena” was, in actuality, a
copy of a photo of a typical western coed.

Sponsored by U-B.C., and aided by the Vancouver Daily Province, which has assumed all expenses
for the visiting beauties, this beauty contest has
prompted dozens of Canadian Press features stories,
and challenges from all parts of Canada,

More important than the decisions of the judges
is the fact that all proceeds from the contest will
be used in the erection of a magnificent gymnasium

‘= 7 or +

THE DALH

OUSIE GAZETTE

   

Campus,—a living memorial to

U.B.C.’s War Dead.

D. G. A. C.

(Continued from Page 5)

for basketball. It was great to
see them on the floor again. Plans
now are to have a city league
made up of the Dal. Grads, Y.W.
C.A., Dal., and perhaps Q.E.H.S.
teams.

We notice the “A” for activity
Leonard is missing from the
Hovel with an appendix condition. flying to Sydney on Saturday for Monday’s_ operation.
She’ll be missed around the campus, especially in basketball
(Gwendlyn, please note).

With all those who wish to try
out for a basketball team come
to D.G.A.C, next Tuesday evening. This will be Mrs. Watt’s
last practise and therefore her
last chance to pick tentative
teams.

 

College Rings
And Pins

Dalhousie rings are now
in. stock—for your convenience.

Class orders for pins take
time at the factory—it will
help if you order early.

Henry Birks & Sons
Limited
Registered Jeweller,

American Gem Society
Halifax, N. S.

NOCHE RO Re Ne

 

Dine at

The

Green Lantern
The Sign of a Geod
Meal.

 

 

MARVEN’S. BISCUITS

Ren

ye or cy

< Ne ee add STYLE ATS ae s
wees 7 A pe

 

FAVORITES SINCE 1906

Moncton, N. B.

Halifax St. John

 

Quebec Montreal

 

 

   
    

C..C. Ui F.

(Continued from page 3)

the infiltration of planned opposition decided the present
members in taking their stand
with respect to. the membership
clause.

The President, Gordon Black,
stated that it was the plan of the
club to send a delegate to a
national convention which will be
held in either Toronto or Winnipeg during the Christmas vacations,. at which a national organization of the C. C. U._F. is expected to be formed.

The President has been negotiating with both the Liberal
and Progressive Conservative
Parties to obtain speakers for
future meetings of the club.

aie er ‘envek accent ¥ re
Friday, November 22, 1946

EDITOR’S MAIL

(Continued from Page 2)
view of the large number of points
required for a D, and the small
time left to them. I suggest,
then, that a minimum be granted
every cqntribution published, and
that exceptionally good ones only
be forwarded to English professors. I further suggest that, if the
Council does see fit to raise the
requirements for a Literary. D,
they consider first the difficulties
in obtaining one even under present conditions, and how few have
been awarded up to now.

I apologise for the length of
this letter, but I was unable to
condense any further the remarks
I wished to make. I remain,

Yours sincerely.
ARTHUR MOREIRA,
Literary Editor,

 

OSS S9O9O99999999090000999090"

Smart

For

FFSSOO0OO6046660460045064006606066 600600046

~@

EATON’

People
Shop Now

Christmas

éT. EATON CO

LOPS OOSO OOOO OSH SOGOU OHOOOOOs

 

LIMITED

99OO999O999995609999990969996606996)99690904

é

 
