    
      
   
 
    
  
    

   

*
%

b

”

‘j

   
  

Counal. Senate

Trade Letters

Herewith the GAZETTE pubSheen letter from the Dalhousie
Council of Students to the University asking for a clarification
of policy regarding consumption
of alcoholic beverages, and the
reply of the Senate of the Univer
‘hits:

 

Dr. A. E. Kerr,
President,

Dalhousie University,
Halifax, N. S.

Dear Sir,—At a meeting of
the Council of the Students held
on Monday, November 4, 1946,
there was a discussion arising out
of the measures which have been
taken recently in regard to the
consumption of alcoholic beversges by Dalhousie students. From
this discussion it appeared that
while most of us believe that an
attempt is being made to achieve
a standard of conduct which is
definitely at variance with that
which has prevailed in recent
years, there is a considerable ele.
ment of doubt and confusion as
to just what that standard is and
what it implies..

At the moment, the matter is
of most immediate concern to
the executives of certain student
societies which sponsor social
functions at times during the
year. Feeling that more is being expected in the matter of
student conduct than is likely to
be achieved, the representatives
of these societies have asked the
Council to seek some clarification
of the situation.

Consequently, the Council has
instructed me to request that you

furnish us with a statement for.

the record of University policy as
to the use of alcoholic beverages

(a) at functions on the campus,

(b) at functions off the campus under the University name
and
(c) at functions off the campus
not under the University name.
We feel that a definite statement
on these points will do much to
dispel existing doubts,

Yours truly,
(C. B. Havey) President, Council of the Students.

 

Dalhousie University,
Halifax, N. S.
November 26, 1946.
Secretary of Senate.

Dear Mr. Havey,—At a meeting of the Senate held today, the
resident read your letter of November 10, in which you asked
for a statement of university poliey in regard to the consumption
of alcoholic beverages by Dalhousie students,

I am now authorized to inform

(Continued on Page 8)

s

 

Gazette

To Daihousians

The law students were aghast!

rision! And Kerry Dunphy?

muscle last Friday night.

Hepsters had gathered to kick up their heels at the Gazoot Hop

 

Hosts

The engineers sneered with deWell, he screamed, ad screamed!

The object of such spontaneous (7?) shows
grizzly scene which took place in the middle of Dalhousie’s hall of

to music supplied by Don Warner’s 16_Dal jivesters.

. Through a smoky haze could be
seen the dim outline of an outhouse—(privy to the unitiated)—
its angular structure not the
least suggestive of France as was
the mode in which death was being enacted in the shadows.

From the rafters boomed forth
the voice of Frank (Rah-Rah)
Gould, In deliberate monotone
he passed sentence on one Jack
(Peekaboo) Lusher, found guilty
of writing the Dal Gazette’s notorious collection of dirt known
as Peeps’ Diary.

Lord Low Executioner Bob
(this'll killya) MacDougall swung
his axe and off came Lusher’s
head, or a reasonable effigy thereof,
The suggestion of France, of
course, was the guillotine effect
suppli¢d by the axe. But” this
Was where the engineers sneered

“Had it been an  Engineer’s
dance instead of the Gazette’s affair,” they said, “the manner of
beheading would certainly have
not been so simple.’ In fact, it
is believed they would certainly
have used a mechanical device
with an appropriate number of
pulleys to do the job in an impressive manner.

But the simplicity did not dampen the ardor of several hundred
students, who screamed with delight.

The axe next descended on the
neck of Don Harris, his fate
sealed by several merciless pannings he had given Dal’s sporting
efforts in his Gazette column, .

With rare timing Kerry Dunphy

(Continued on Page 8)

 

of emotion was a

Donahue Speaks
At C.C.U.F. Meet

Presenting the program of the Progressive Conservative Party,
Mr. C. A, Donahue, a Halifax barrister addressed a meeting of the Cocperative Commonwealth University Federation on Thursday, November 28. Gordon Black, President of the club introduced the speaker.
Mr. Donahue began the meeting with a concise review of the plans
which the Progressive Conservative Party intends to put in operation
after the next election—if it wins, and an outline of Canada’s three

major ae

D.G.D.S. PLANS
XMAS RECITAL

The Dalhousie Chorus plans to
hold an informal program of
Christmas music on the evening
of Monday, December 23. The re.
cital will be held for the benefit
of those students and members of
the faculty who will be in Halifax for the Christmas season. The
recital will feature selections of
traditional music of the season
and will.be the first appearance
of the mixed chorus this year.

Plans are also proceeding for
the annual recital in January
The D.G.DS. requires, in addition
to the orchestra and chorus, the
individual talent of all students
who have prepared or can prepare a contribution to the  program. As the recital will be held
early in January the program
will have to be set before the
commencement of holidays.

 

MULGRAVE PARK
DANCE TONITE
Tickets 75¢ couple

No. 3 or 4 car to Park

 

 

  

PAL HOUSE
SIVOENT

 

3-Act Comedy
Rehersal Held

After a breather of one week,
Leslie Pigot is again at work with

members of the Dal Glee Club,
holding casting rehearsals for the
Kaufman and Hart Three Act
Comedy—” The Man Who Came
to Dinner’. Two rehearsals were
scheduled before Christmas and
the first one was held last Sunday, with about twenty people
present to compete for parts.

There dre a total of 28 parts
in the play, with approximately
20 speaking parts, eight of these
for girls. Mr. Pigot explained
that he would try only four people for the part of the Man, since
it was a very difficult part and he
felt that time would not permit

(Continued on Page 8)

Forum Moots
Deportation

The weekly meeting of the Dal
housie Citizens Forum was held at
the Murray Homestead on Tuesday evening. After the showing
of a musical short featuring Arturo Toscanni and the “music of
all nations” the meeting listened
to a radio meeting on the subject of “civil libertys.”
On the first question, which dealt
with the methods used by the
Government in the recent espionage investigation. '

The meeting felt that the un.
usual methods were justified by
the extraordinary nature of the
case and could not normally be
tolerated in a democracy.

The desirability of Canadiar

(Continued on Page 8)

He denounced the present
government’s contre] of industry
and advocated the removal of
controls at the earliest possible
moment. He pointed out that such
controls were conductive to shortindicated his party’s
intentions of a free economy for
the nation—free economy being
necessary for abundance. He stated that the Conservative party advocated parity of income for farmers who in his estimation are not
receiving a fair share of the national income.

In outlining the policy of the C.
C. F. he carried on his argument
against controlled economy, explaining that freedom of the press
would necessarily be abolished in
a socialist society. Questioning
the:need for such a radical change.
Mr. Donahue issued a challenge
tw the C. C. F., asking, “Are we
giving up anything of value to us
in turn for what is promised?”

Following his talk, Mr. Donahue
was bombarded with questions by
the predominantly socialist meeting, all of which he managed to
answer cleverly and with good
humor, When the verbal athletic:
were ended, due to a lack of time,
Mr. Donahue managed to gain the
last word—leaving the meeting
with the idea that his party con-~siders itself champion of the Canadian people to as great an extent
as any other party.

ages—and

MacCormack
Favors
Inter-Faculty

John MacCormack, Dalhousie’s

versatile Physical Director, wher
interviewed this week by the
GAZETTE, strongly favoured Inter-Faculty sports.

While not minimizing the importance of Varsity teams, Mr.

MacCormack stated that the prim-.

ary concern of his department is
the maintenance of physical fitness in the Student Body as a
whole. The lack of a men's residence and the presence of professional schools were factors
working against the fielding of
top-notch Varsity teams, but were
actually favorable to Inter-Facu-.
lty competition.

Mr. MacCormack was enthusjastic over the revival in badminton this year, claiming: this sport

was rapidly approaching the ideal)
of 'mass informal recreation.” Re-
garding the gym, Mr. MacCormack emphasized the waste space
and favoured a scheme whereby
a bowling alley might be estab~
lished in the basement. He stated
the project would finance itself
in a short time,

He concluded the interview with
the earnest hope that a modern
skating rink would be constructed
before too long. ‘

 

» © e

ind A Merry Christmas

;

  

 

 
 

°

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Friday, December 6, 1946

 

CANADA'S OLDEST STUDENT PUBLICATION

 

: Editor-in-Chief
AL LOMAS (3-4505)

News Features Sports
JACK LUSHER DON HARRIS
Co-ed Sports News Co-ed Ed.
FRAN DOANE LEW MILLER, P-3 JEAN BOWERS
Literary ge Proofreader Circulation
ART MOREIRA RALPH MacDONALD MARY FARQUHAR
Rewriter Office Mer. Photographer
VIVIAN LUSHER BILL OGILVIE DON MORRISON
Business Manager Cartoonist
DON HARRIS BOB TUCK

 

REPORTERS AND CONTRIBUTORS THIS WEEK
Liz Reeves, Jack MacCormack, Geoff Payzant, Ralph MacDonald,
Jim Saunders, Harry Dubinsky, Don Chipman, Gordon Hart, Windy
(Neill, Brent Gibson, Fran Doane, Jean Bowers,

 

Friday, December 6, 1946 No. 9

GLANCING BACK

— With the last issue before Christmas now on its way to the press,
the time has come for some erd-of-term reminiscing. The University
has again this year increased its registration, now standing at 1702,
more than double the 1944-45 number. Student activities have had a
Similar expansion, It is not for the GAZETTE to pass judgment on
matters academic—a far more thorough judgment will be passed next
Week by more competent judges. We would rather have our say on
those matters which may well have a greater influence on post-University life than many classroom studies.

For better or for worse the GAZETTE has expanded. During the
pasti term it has attempted to adhere to a policy ‘of the students, by
the students, for the students’, Much criticism has been levied upon it
for various articles published, The GAZETTE has held that all materjal appearing in it was of interest or benefit to the Student Body, If it
was not—we apologise, If some of our readers feel that the profusion
of articles of a socialist turn were at variance with the principles of a
free press—we hasten to explain that any article—not exceeding the
bounds of decency and ethics—will be published.

The idea! college life was outlined in the opening address made
‘by President Kerr at the first of the year when he urged a union between academic and campus life. The attention of the University for the
housing of students has paid large dividends, and the establishment of
a special D. V. A. office on the campus has been of significant value to
ex-service students.

The GAZETTE takes this opportunity to compliment the Veterans’ Association on the task which the organization has undertaken
and performed during the past year and a half. [t was no small task
to provide jobs for all who applied.

This year the Students’ Council has been faced with greater responsibilities than ever before, Theirs is the task of expending more
than $21,000.00 in council fees, While the GAZETTE strongly disagrees with some of the policies of the Council (viz: Canadian University Press) it would defend the group to the utmost on almost all actions
to date.

The various Student Societies have shown signs of reorganization
and new strength, Perhaps the most progressive step of the year was
the Council's sanction of Political clubs on the campus.

In retrospect, we would pronounce the first term successful, With
the Student Body lies the responsibility to make the second term an
even greater success.

So with issue number nine—the GAZETTE wishes all those who
have followed its news and nonsense during the past month GOOD
‘LUCK IN EXAMS — AND A MERRY CHRISTMAS!

EDITOR’S MAIL

The Editor: operate with the D.A.A.C.. unless

Dear Sir,—In the column of paid $150.00 for their franchise
comment published by your sports We draw the sports. editor’s ateditor on Noy, 29 we note some tention to the facts that: (1) the
carping criticism of Law Stu Law Society, comprising all law
dents concerning a proposal tc students, has not even considered

Vol. 78

 

 

enter a baskethali team in the the proposal to enter a senior
City Senior League. Byron Hat- team. (2) Considerations of Da’
field has undertaken, as origin- ‘unity, among those of Law most

ator of the idea, te explain fully
the considerations underlying this
proposal. It is sufficient for me
to Say that the advantages of this
plan to retain Dathousie’s place
in the senior league were overweighed by the considerations of
unity and the promotion of Dalhousie’s sport effort under the
DAAC,

likely to benefit, overrode honest
beliefs that participation in the
senior league in some form would
be beneficial to Dalhousie’s future
position in local sport. (3) It is
foolish and puerile to impugn the
activities and motives of the pro
fessional faculties on the strength
of the proposal of one member of
the Law school. The Law schoo’

We suggest that Mr. Harris is
much more anxious to criticise
Law on any possible ground than
to enquire into the merits of participation or non-participation ir
this league. If he is so worried
about a “poor showing” on the
part of Dal students in “letting
their teams down” he might direct
his attention to the group of students now playing in the City
Junior League and who, we under.
stand, have flatly refused to co.

is and will continue to be one of
the mainstays of the student body
promoting the unity and spirit of
Dalhousie above all other consid
erations.
Yours truly,
DON BLACK.
(President Dalhousie Law So
ciety).

(Ed. Note—IF we were wrong
we apologize. Nevertheless the
story appeared jin the local pa.
pers, Mr. Black. We feel just as

SHAVE and a
HAIRCUT 75

I am sitting in the gym store
one day when I feel a small tickling on the back of my neck. Not
a very big tickling, but enough
so I could feel it. I looks around
—but there is nobody near me,
So I feel my neck. The only
think I can feel there is hair—so
I conclude that it is the hair
which is tickling my neck. This
is not so unreasonable, as there is
nothing on my neck but hair. In
fact it is not only on my neck
but it is on my ears and even
over my eyes. This is because I
have not had a haircut for a very
long time—what with the coming
winter going to be even colder
than last year and what not, So
anyhow I figure that just to get
rid of that tickling and get rid
of that old joke about the fiddle,
etc. that everyone is kidding me
about, I will get a haircut. So I
look around Roi’s to find the
necessary half-rock. This is very
easy since at this time of the
month many of the guys are notoriously flush—even to the extent of 60 bucks or the price of a
haircut. After some scrounging
around [I get the necessary and
light out for the barber shop.
Now to get to the barber shop
which I patronize there has to be
a street car which I can catch. So
I stand on the corner to catch it.
The best way to do this is with
an 88 millimetre—but I finally
catch one by the everyday method

of waiting until the first eight
have passed me and then lying
down on the tracks in front of

the ninth one. Anyhow, when I
get downtown it is not so nice as
when I wasn’t. The weather
and all that. So in fact it is
already snowing and all the people are standing around beating
their hands and jumping up and
down as if their ears are
But I do not have to do this, as
my ears are very warm underneath all that hair. So I go in
the barber shop, and there about
seven or ten people there all waiting to have their hair cut like me.
So I sit down—but not before
some guy gets up to get a magazine when I grab his seat before
he can sit down again. This
causes some commotion, but finally some nice old lady gives this
guy her seat, which is very decent
of her as this guy has only one
leg. The clown beside me is looking now as though he was sitting
beside a skunk, so I decide he
could stand some cheering up, so
[I tell him the very good joke
about the guy who took Little
Liver Pills for so long that when
he dies they have to beat his liver
to death. Whereupon he gets up
and leaves in a great rush and
forgets to take his coat—so I
figure he has gone to buy some
of these wonderful pills, and I
will get his coat by mistake instend of my own which I left at
home if he doesn’t
soon,

cold.

come back
Then [I look at the guy sitting on my other side—on a chair
of course. This guy looks pretty
wise—in fact like a professor or
a cop, ete. So I decide to find
out if he is as smart as he looks,
so I say: Say Professor, you look
pretty smart how would you like
to indulge in a little came of riddies, He looks kind of sick at
that but he says: O.K. anyhow. So
I say: You look
(Continued on Page 8)
ERS
strongly as the pro-Dal-unity Law
schoo] on that group of students
now playing basketball on their
own and using the Dal. gym for
practice, )

smarter than I

 

 

“Heat Merchants Since 1835"

5. Cunard and Company, Limited

HARD COAL * SOFT COAL
COKE * FUEL OIL
OIL BURNING EQUIPMENT

HALIFAX, N. S. DARTMOUTH, N, 5.

 

 

 

: College Rings
And Pins

Dalhousie rings are now
in stock—for your conyenience.

Thomas Wallace
SONS & DAUGHTERS

Class orders for pins take
time at the factory—it will
help if you order early.

Henry Birks & Sons
Limited
Registered Jeweller,

American Gem Society
Halifax, N. S.

‘= 22 SEA

Optometrists & Opticians

Y. M. C. A. BUILDING

Halifax, Nova Scotia

 

 

yop es IS Deere PT aa ee ee

and be sure!

It was a good slogan in war. It is now a good slogan in peace:

“Say Schwartz and be Sure”. We urge it for your protection

that you may be assured of the incomparable Schwartz quality
in Coffee, Spices, Peanut Butter, Jelly Powder, Baking Powder and Dried Fruit.

W.H. Schwartz & Sons Ltd.

Canada’s Oldest Coffee and Spice House
Founded in Halifax in 1841

Dalhousie Hniversity

Halifax, Nova Scotia

Largest Staff, Libraries and Laboratories in the Maritimes

The Faculty of Arts and Science
enjoys international distinction

Begrees of: Diplomas in: :
Bachelor of Arts Engineering
Bachelor of Science Education
Bachelor of Commerce Music
Bachelor of Music Pharmacy

Master of Arts Hospital Pharmacy

Master of Science Mining Geology
Pre-Professional Courses

Honour and Advanced Courses in many departments

in the B. Sc, course about $210.00 a year

in the B, A. Course average about $160.00 a year

Many valuable scholarships, on entrance and through the courses

Regional Scholarships awarded on the result of examinations held in

February in any Maritime school. Special 3600.00 scholarships for Hon
our courses in Classics, Mathematics, Modern Languages’ and History.

The Professional Faculties

Inclusive Fees

Law, Medicine, Dentistry, enjoy an unexcelled reputation,

Residences
Women students live in Shirreff Hall — one of the finest Women’s
Residences in the Dominion. Residence is provided for first vear men
in the University Men's Residence. Other men students live in either
of two affiliated institutions or in selected and approved homes.
Special arrangements are being made to accommodate married and
single ex-service students,
Meals for all students are available at the University.
For full information write to THE REGISTRAR.

 
 
   
   

-—

"

“

q

ae ee ie

es es He ie

a

   
  

ve

af

ll 
 

ae os 8

“AMBOLIING
GAN BO LLIN Jeese
a ims ‘om 8 q

Er'%

 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ee, Sat an ane

 

. AT THE GAMBOL

 

- Reduced et Fares
For Students Announced

From the registrars office this week kas come news of a reduced
train fare for students travelling home for the Christmas vacation.
The scheme is the result of arrangements made by the Canadian Passenger Association with the railroads of Canada—and is limited to:
all stations in Canada, stations in Canada to stations in Newfoundland,
and to certain border points in the United States.

By the arrangement, the student
can receive for the current normal
fare and one quarter a round trip
ticket, considerably less than the
fare and one half normally charged for a round trip.

Tickets are valid from Monday,
November 25th to January Ist for
the outward journey, and good for
the return trip commencing not
later than January 31st.

A form of the Canadian Passenger Association must be obtained
from the Registrar's Office and
eompleted by the student planning
to take advantage of the reduced
‘rates.

 

FOR SALE — Six beautiful
‘BALLOT BOXES. Left in the
GAZETTE office. These boxes
are magnificently finished in a
‘Nauseous green, carefully embossed with the inscription ‘Provwince of Ontario’ in white, If you
plan on holding an election, or
wish an outsize lunch pail these
boxes are indispensible. Price to

be arranged in accordance with

the GAZETTE’S budget plan for
undernourished students,

 

A hungry tramp stopped one
-day at a farm house and asked
for food. The farmer's wife
brought out a plate of food and

he sat down under a tree to eat.

4 he.

While he was eating a little red
hen flashed by, closely followed
by a gay young rooster.

As the rooster ran by, the
tramp tossed a piece of bread at
him, and the rooster, putting on
his brakes, slid to a stop, and

greedily attacked the bread. The
“fis bead "Ged

on and sadly shook
My he a, “IT hope

    
 

 

 

DENTISTS
ORGANIZE

The Dalhousie Dental Students’
Society, inactive for many years,
Was recently re-organized during
a méeting of all dental students.
All present. showed great interest in the society’s plans for the
future. Enthusiasm was furtner
heightened by the presence of
Dr. J. Dobson, a member of the
Dental faculty and a Dalhousie
graduate (Class of "27). In his
talk to the students, Dr. Dobson
described the activities of the
Dental Society during his college
years and expressed a sincere desire that the society should become an integral part of Dalhousie student activities as a
whole,

Officers elected for this year
are: President, John Burke, '47;
Vice-president, Don Steeves, ‘48;

Secretary, Bill MacNeil, ‘49;
Treasurer, K, Stack, ‘50, Jim
Darcy was appointed Dentistry

representative to the D.A.A.C.
A social committee consisting of
one student from each year was
appointed.

It was unanimously agreed that
this reorganization has been a
great success and it is hoped that
dentistry shall once again take
its place in all student activities,

FOUND — By Charlie Smith.

One dark hair in dessert at Men’s
‘Residence. Will gladly exchange
for a blond—or owner may have

   

* _ THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

CANADA'S

re

OLDEST STUDENT PUBLICATION

  
   
 
 

Page Three

   
 

  

 

‘A7 Debating
Schedule

January 14—Law 1 vs. Law 2
(Aff.), Munroe Room, 7:30 p.m.
“Resolved that all remaining appeals from decisions of Canadian
Courts to the Judicial Committee
of the Privy Council sheuld be
Abolished.

January 21—Arts and Science
1 vs. Arts and Science 2: “‘Resolved that socialism is. undesirable in Canada”.

January 28—Delta Gamma 1
vs. Delta Gamma 2: ‘Resolved
that movies are a cultural benefit
to society’.

February 4—Commerce 1
(Aff.) vs. Commerce 2: ‘Resolved
that college training for business
should be of a general nature rather than specialized.”

February 11—Arts and Science
3 vs. Engineers (Aff.): “Resolved
that political organizations
should be allowed to function on
the campus”’.

The championship debates for
the Viscount Bennett Shield will
be held Feb. 18 and 25. The
resolutions will be:

1, “Resolved that
credit in a country during a period of depression does make for
full time employment,”

2. “Resolved that the Dardenelles should be internationalized.”’

The championship debates shal!
be subject to the judging of the
M.LD.L, system.

Dr. McClure to
Speak at Dal.

Here are some more details
about the University Christiar
Conference to be held at Dal.
January 23-26. The principa)
speaker will be Dr. Robt. McClure, a medical doctor who was
director of the Friends Ambulance Unit in China during the war

Dr. McClure who is well known
for his interesting and forceful
addresses will lead the conference
through a discussion of the application of Christianity in the
world today. Then he will proceed to ‘a discussion of what can
and should be done by individuals, Anyone who would like te
see a better world rise up out of
the ashes of the old one, would be
interested in hearing the practical]
answers of Dr. McClure.

During the four-day conference it is expected that Dr. McClure will give four talks which
will be followed by discussions
under him and other leaders prepared to answer questions arising
out of his talks.

While Dr. McClure is in Halifax he will visit the residences
and attempt to talk over personal
problems with students,

increase of

 

 

Immigration Officer: “How
many children have you?”
Immigrant: “Three boys and
two oirls,”
Officer: “Five altoeether?”
Immigrant: “No, one at a time,

Connoll

 

 

y Award
Fosters Drama

Each year the students of Dalhousie have the pleasure of viewing
& series of one-act plays presented by the various societies on the cam
rus in competition for the coveted Connolly Shield.

This shield was

presented to the student body by Joe Connolly to promote and encourage the study of dramatics as an integral part of the academic life of

the university.
the left of the entrance.

It now stands in the MacDonald Memorial Library to
Attached to it are separate shields conta,

ing the names of the winning societies in the respective years of their

winners.

DISTINGUISHED
ACTRESS LAUDS
DAL DRAMATICS

Sending her congratulations to
the cast of “Twelfth Night”, Mrs.
Ted Williams, the leading lady of
Noel Coward’s “Blithe Spirit’ in
its initial London performance, informed the cast and stage crew
ef “Twelfth Night’, at a buffet
supper at the Lord Nelson Hotel
that the Dalhousie production
lacked the little characteristicr
which usually betray an amateur
performance.

The supper was given in honou
of director H. Leslie Pigot and
was the last regular meeting of
the cast. On behalf of the participants, Mr. Pigot was thanked
by Gene Machum and Don Harris
for his splendid work. Gordon
Hart, president of the D. G. D. 8.
congratulated all those who took
part in presenting the play, and
apologized for the short time
which had been allotted for re
(Continued on Page 8)

 

al

COL. GEORGE

STANDFAST

 

SPEAKS
Col. George Standfast, K.C.,
O.B.E. (and Bar), in a brief in
terview with The GAZETTE reporter on the steps of the Constitutional Club, states: “To progress we must maintain the status
quo.—Of course I deplore’ the
thought of so many reds on the
Dalhousie campus. They should
be exiled. An Anglo-American
bloc should be formed to control
the world.—What is good enough
for my beautcniandtathar is good
enough for me.”

The judges are selected frem
the faculty and anniually present the shield to the w ™
ner, accompanied by a criticism
of each play, the last social
day of the year—Munro Day, To
insure fair judgment on the dra
matic ability alone,
sential “‘p

they

on

only the >
props” and

is wp to the set t’
imaginations of the audiénece in
motion.

are used

players to

Any society
dents may

or group of s'
submit a play for the
contest and it is hoped that t
year will see more entries tl
ever before.

These plays are to be entir
acted and directed by stude!
and this is the best chance 2
those who have been unable t&
take part in major productit &
to try their skill on the stag
you must act ne
It takes considerable time to
cure scripts and ,.organize your
east. For further particul:
consult Gorden Hart, Pets
of the Glee Club;

NEW CANADA
YEAR BOOK

The Dominion Bwreau of Stut
istics has this _ Bnnounced
the publication of the 1946 Canada Year ‘This book is a
compilation of facts and figures
relating to Canada during the
past year. While it should be of
interest to all Canadians, it \
be of particular worth to student
in Bconomics and Political Scie
classes. A leather bound volume
may be procured for $2.00, ah
for University students a pa)
bound edition is offered at $1.00
Applications for these cop!
should be addressed to: The Dom
inion Statistician, Dominion Du
reau of Statistics, Ottawa,

NOTICE
BOARD

JUNIOR CLASS MEETING—JANUARY
Graduating Class of ‘48. W:
Notice Boards for further infer

Remember,

week

Book.

 

mation.

 

The next meeting of the
Vets will be a Christmas party
held in the Lower Gym on W *
nesday evening, December 11, at
8:30 p.m.

 

 

 

 
   
  
   

 

  

idolines

BY DON HARRIS

 

  
   
   
    

Eureka! They dood it! In every young man’s life there comes a

vinje—to be able to pay tributes, in full, to “Gold and Black" repre‘sentatives, and Saturday's exhibition of basketball rates such a tribute.
‘The win was okay but the main point was in the method of posting
this Victory, which was the result of TEAMWORK all the way. For
the first time in several years, all five members of Dal quintet remembered that they had teammates, with the result that they swamped
their opponents, even though their shooting was slightly off in the first
half. As the result of passing, passing and more passing, the team
could not help but score some baskets, as they put men into scoring
position time and time again,

In the second half, the shooting improved and the Dal squad posted an average of better than a point a minute, to run their final score
to 57. Coach Ken Chisholm deserves some credit for the win, since he
stressed the idea of passing and shooting when in range , not waiting
tor layup shots only.

It is not always a good idea to judge a team on early performances, but we will venture to say that they will be at the top of their
league, should they continue to show the form displayed ast Saturday,
They may not be the best team turned out at Dal in recent years, but
they are as good as any we have seen.

This writeup is not meant to make the team overconfident, but
it is a nice feeling to be able to say: “Well Done, Dalhousie!’ The
boys will continue to win only as long as they play as a team, and
over-contidence, plus a drop in team play, will bring with it a speedy
change of fortunes. Win or lose, they will earn the support of Dal
students, so long as they TRY, and that they did on Saturday.

: APOLOGIES TO MR. HATFIELD

An item in last week’s column caused some consternation in the
ranks of the Law students, who felt that they had been unjustly criticized re basketball entrance in the senior league. In a letter to this
writer, Byven Hatfield took upon himSelf to clarify the situation, and
did so ig a very satisfactory manner, without ranting and raving, as do
many people when they feel something is wrong.

He explained why some members of the Law team had considered
entering the senior league, in order to give Dal a senior entry, and not
lei the league down, and why he, among others, felt that he could not
play for the Dal team, since it would not be fair to those coming regu.
larly to practices, if he made the squad without attending practice
sessions ns mentioned in last week's Gazette.

It is not the easiest thing in the world to admit you are wrong
publicly, but when matters are explained in a manner such as that
used by Hatfield, the formality is simplified. Due to its length, the letter itself will not be published, and is not written as if it were intended
te be published:

To Mr. Hatfield and any other members of the Law team whom |
may have criticezed unjustly, in the light of these facts, and only these
facts presented by Mr. Hatfield, I offer my apologies for the statements made last week about those players. Q. E. D.

JUNIOR MUDDLE IN BASKETBALL

Some criticism has been levelled at this column for not mentioning the muddled situation re Junior basketball at Dal. The reason for
this unnatural silence upon the part of this writer was that the issues
were so confused that it was, and to some extent, still is, difficult to
place the blame.

Quite possibly both parties are in the wrong, although each
is inclined to place the responsibility upon the other, The readers
may judge for themselves wherein lies the error.

The facts are presented in this issue, and the evident conflict of
views shows that someone has let down the University, perhaps more
than one party. A lack of co-ordination is clearly shown, since this
matter could never have arisen otherwise, and regardless of where the
responsibility for this predicament lies, a checkup and improvement in
the general athletic situation seems necessary,

fe
<a"

‘g \
- bs “ ye,
ARY a be] "i , a’
- c. is af | .
a { ha

yaaa
a

 

FAVORITES SINCE 1906

Moncton, N. B.
Halifax St.John Quebec Montreal

a

 
      

 
 

DOIG

Approximately three weeks ago
the D.A.A.C. approved the withdrawal of our entry in the City
Basketball League, one of the
main reasons being to give the
coach a chance to organize and
develop junior players, It so happened that, unknown to us, a
group of Dalhousie students had
already organized themselves independently and had entered a
team in the Junior League, having done $0 on the natural assumption that Dalhousie would
not be entering itself.

Without several of such players, a2 Dalhousie junior team
would be unduly weakened, and
two or three of them were regarded as good prospects for the
Intermediate team, when they
withdrew from the noon practices, presumably to join .the
other group.

When approached by the D. A.
A.C., regarding a proposed combination under Dal colors, they
declined, stating that they had
gone to a lot of trouble to organize themselves, get their own
coach, and acquire their own
practice facilities, and that having gone this far, they did not
want to see it go for naught

We say that this attitude under
the circumstances, is probably
justified. But it so happened in
this instance, that this team drew
to its own side, players who had
been attending Dalhousie practices and who stood a good chance
of making the Intermediate Squad.
One player, in particular, had
been selected already for the Intermediates when he decided to
transfer.

The D.A.A.C. has been asked
to take a definite stand on ‘this
matter, and lay down a policy
which would take care of such a
situation.

We feel that every Dalhousie
student is under a moral obligation to serve his collegiate interests first, where they conflict with
others. The fact that a student
does not feel so compelled, _reflects equally on the university as
well as the student. The morale
of a university that has to resort
to legally forcing its students to
play on its teams must be at a

pretty low ebb. We consider
that force is neither necessary
nor proper. A player required

by circumstances to play for a
team to which he feels that he
owes no allegiance, would be absolutely of no value, and furthermore, would not be wanted by the
rest of the squad.

Let me point out that this represents our attitude in the event
of cases ranging from one ex
(Continued on Page 8)

     
     

 

Finest Quality
SPORTS EQUIPMENT

 

cShimneys Lynited

456 Barrington St.

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Junior Muddle Sides To The Tale

    

SUKAROCKS

Mr. Editor:

During the past few days the
members of the Sukarocks Basketbail team have been charged
with a lack of college spirit. This
accusation would appear to stem
from the fact that we have a
strong team in the Junior League,
while Dal, due to indecision and
lack of foresight by the management, has been unable to gain entrance in the Junior League up
to the present time. It seems to
us that the stand taken by the
D.A.A.C, on this isue is most unreasonable and the whole situation is intended to cover their
own errors,

The membet's of the Sukarocks
team: are all young enthusiasts
from Dal who contemplated play:
ing basketball this winter. In
order to meet our desires, we approached the secretary of the
D.A.A.C. and asked him if we
might enter a team under the
Dalhousie name. He took the
matter up with the D.A.A.C. and
later informed us that they had
no desire to enter into Junior
competition and would not, therefore, sponsor a team. We were
not downhearted.

We proceeded to enter a team
independently in the Junior
League of Halifax, playing with
our own players, coach and manager. It was not our idea to sit
around and become dormant
through lack of basketball practice, The prospective team agreed
to abandon their Junior hope if
a sutticient number made Dal
teams.

At the start of the season in
basketball all members except one
tried for positions on Dal teams.
The majority were refused but
two stayed on. When the D.A
A.C. withdrew from senior com
petition, these two players real
ized that there would be little
playing time for them on one
team of roughly twenty players.
Consequently, these two players
came, of their own accord, to the
ranks of the Sukarocks. After
winning our first game, in which
one player scored 27 points, and
another 26 points, the D.A.A.C
charged us with stealing two of
their best players. These players
did not consider themselves capable of attaining regular positions
on the Dal team, due to the attitude of the coach, Ken Chisholm

In closing, we would like to ex.
press our deep regret at the unfortunate attitude taken by the
D.A.A.C. on this matter. The executive seems to feel that we harbor a grudge against Dal, On the
contrary, we have the greatest
respect for Dal and Dal teams
Most of us have played on Dal
teams in the past, and hope to
play again in the future.

Yours sincerely,

SUKAROCKS.

 

“EVANGELINE |
TEA ROOM

Commonly known as JOE'S
280 Quinpool Road
HALIFAX, N. 8. '

 

 

 

Friday, December 6, 1946

  

CHISHOLM

Dear Don:

Here are a few comments on
basketball which you asked about:

Three men were picked on the
Intermediate team. I'll call them
A, B and C, and append the names
for your information. A (Byron
Hatfield——names added to this letter by the Editor), after several
practices, told me he could not
continue, and I told him I would
like to use him in games and
would be glad to have him, realizing that he could not turn out
regularly for practices.

B and C (Keith Roddam and
Don Rogers) were picked on the
team and failed to turn out without further explanation, C (Rogers is now playing on a junior
team.

D and E (Don Kerr and Mason
MacDonald) turned out for only
one practice, would definitely
have made the Intermediate team.
They failed to turn out again and
are also playing for a non-Dalhousie junior team.

We were late organizing for a
junior team, asked a team of Dalhousie boys not representing the

college in the league, if they
would combine with a regular Dal
entry. They refused. I believe

had this group a semblance of
college spirit, they would have
played for their college, when
the opportunity presented, even
if the organization plan came
later than their own.

Worse than the lack of college
spirit was the action of this group
of juniors in taking away one of
the men Dal planned to use on its
junior team (Frank Rogers), for
a game last Friday.

If space permitted I would have
liked to have gone into this matter much more thoroughly. Suffice it to say that, for my part, I
believe the action of several Dalhousie students in this basketball
situation is the sorriest commentary on college spirit I can recall.

KEN. CHISHOLM
(Basketball Coach).

D.G.A.C.

We hate to remind you, b
exams are pretty nigh and therefore this will be the last of this
column for the year. As is always
the way with last issues, there’ is
loads of space and no news. This
week we rushed around looking
for the latest gn all sports and
found that ground hockey and
basketball were having a last
spree before they disappeared for
the year.

An interesting game of ground
hockey was played last Thursday
against the boys. However, it
was hardly fair to judge it, as the
girls had to be rather lenient on
their inexperienced opponents.
The latter seemed to find it difficult to realize that the object of
the game was to tackle and wham
the ball, not the girl. With practice they should show improve
ment. (Ed's Note: in tackling the
girls?).

Two more interclass basketbal]
games were played off on Tuesday night, the Seniors ys, Sophs,
and Juniors ys. Freshettes.

The first game was an exceptionally well matched one, the
Score remaining almost even

(Continued on Page 8)

tie

 
 

 

‘Friday, December 6, 1946

 

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Page Five

 

DAL SWAMPS DARTMOUTH 57-31

CAMPUS
ROUNDUP

There was much ill feeling created amongst the members of the
Dalhousie Glee Club by the accounts run in the local newspabers of their  ultra-successfu!
Twelfth. Night. About one-third
of the Mail’s epic consisted of an
exciting account of how Mrs
Scott’s English Class came by bus
from Caledonia High School
Here, it was also very ably peointed out that the Dal players were
not “‘flustered”—Gad! The Chron.
icle was worse. Its author has
probably never seen the inside of
the Dal Gym, and s0, came across
with a strictly text-book criticism
which took the “middle of the
Fence” position—we hope he got
stabbed by one of the pickets
The account had Sir Toby passionately speaking two lines from
Midsummer Night's Dream anc
was topped off with the sensational revelation, that the cos.
tumes were rented from Teronto
if the local papers feel that they
have no one competent to cover
these cultural functions, The Ga.
zette would gladly oblige.

> > 7 *

Schwab, the great American
steelman, once said that the first
sign of a successful venture is
when people try to horn in. With
this as a criterion, The Gazette
has been a suecess. Every week
some one comes to the editor with
threats, demands and fire in his
eyes. Last week, a couple of
boys from Law came in to complain about the articles and letters on socialism, and that if it
continued, they were “going to de
something about it”. They were
politely advised to go out and
write a letter to the editor, complaining in the proper way—no
letter was forthcoming, The Gazette staff wishes that these people in future, go, first, to the
waterfront, and take a long walk
on a short wharf.

> > + o

Most students at Dalhousie are
missing one of the best functions
on the campus, the Citizens’
Forum. It meets every Tuesday
night at the Homestead to discuss
a set subject. The government
sends up a movie and also provides a half-hour radio roundtable by distinguished Canadian
citizens. Mrs. Sykes then serves
sandwiches, tea and cakes to fortify the participants for the en.
suing debates, The discussions
are informative and sometimes
very torrid—but always with a
trace of humor, Drop in some
Tuesday night and see what you
have been missing.

> 7 - >

Notes: After a divorce a wo.
man feels like a new man.—lIf the
rent board relinquishes control
roomers will be flying.—The Cam_
pus Clod wants to know why the
library has insufficient copies of
Kitty arffi Forever Amber, those
two bedtime stories; and why
there is a sudden egress of the
Generation of Vipers,

 

Hockey practices will be held
on Dec. 23rd and Dec, 27th, following exams, at the Arena, in
both cases, the time being 12.302.30.

 

Eddie Crowell (Dal’s Own Angel) warms oe in preparation
for the annual Girls versus Boys Ground Hockey Match, a strenuous
athletic endeavour, as can be seen.

 

 

 

Meds Take Inter
Faculty Opener

 

Meds outlasted the Commerce team in the opening fixture of the

Dalhousie Interfaculty Basketball League last Saturday.

The game

was a rough, rugged affair, featured by prolific shooting from every
angle and position, probably caused by an early season lack of con
dition.

Girls Score
Moral (2) Win
Over Dal Men

Before a crowd of one Gazette
correspondent on a chill Thursday afternoon, the boys met the
girls in the annual ground hockey
game,, As is customary, or at
least expected, the boys won by
a great margin. Stars for the
winners were Crowell and Graves,
who established beyond all doubt
the fact that they could score
goals against the girls, Again
and again these two stellar players rushed down the field to shoot
the ball through the uprights. No
one could doubt for an instant
that they were the best hockey
players on the field. Even the
girls admitted it.

The game was featured by“the
exceedingly rough play, including
some very illegal low tackling
and a few instances of indiscriminate forward passing. Highlight
of the game, from the spectator’s
standpoint was'when a number of
the girls were unfortunate enough
to have a skirmish in a large
mud. puddle on the East end of
the field.

The game, however, was contested bitterly and at times the
girls appeared to have the upper
hand. The referee-ing was a trifie loose and so the game gradually dissolved into a general melee
around the swampy part of the
field.

High scorers for the boys were
Graves and Crowell with about
100 goals each. Nancy Jones
was the leading goal-getter for
the girls, having scored 1 goal.

Gals—Myrden, Bowers, Jones
Raymond, Lawton, O'Neill, Wood,
Crowe, Snuggs.,

Guys—Crowell? Graves, Flynn
Pond, Morrison, Oakley, McLeod,
Roome, Grant.

 

The Commerce men were able to
hold themselves on even terms with

until the
closing minutes, when the superior
strength of the Medics enabled
them to win out. The scoring star
of the game was diminutive Bernie
Creighton, who counted 11 points,
with the benefit of five foul shots
which he scored with unerring accuracy, Mont and Rogers also
showed well for Commerce.

The scoring was well distributed
on the victorious Med team with
Stevenson getting 7, McLennan 6,
and Cox and Morton 4 each. With
this first game as a criterion, it
looks as though the Dal Interfaculty hoopsters are in for a hotlycontested season.

Meds—Stevenson 7, Foster 2
Morton 4, McLennan 6, Deacon 5.
Cox 4, Moffat, Ashley 2

Commerce—Creighton 11, Morrow, James, Kerr, Ogilvie, Rogers
6, Comeau, Keefe 2, McKinney.
Mont 3.

Oxford Theatre

M.T.W., Dec. 9, 10, 11
THE BRIDE WORE BOOTS
Barbara Stanwyck, Robert

Cummings.

the bigger Med team,

 

T.F.S., Dec. 12, 13, 14
A WALK IN THE SUN
Dana Andrews
SPRING PARADE OF 1946

Gale Storm

 

 

ORPHEUS Theatre

Friday, Saturday, Dec. 6, 7
"NEATH CANADIAN SKIES
FLIGHT TO NOWHERE

M.T.W.T., Dec. 9, 10, 11, 12
‘““THE BOWERY”
Wallace Beery
SUN VALLEY SERENADE

 

 

Of First

Passing, Feature

 

Dal Win

Dal's Intermediate basketball representatives got off to an impressive start at the Dal Gym last Saturday night, swamping the Dart
mouth Boy’s Club by a score of 67-31.

the match was never in doubt, as the “Gold and Black” squad scored
4 baskets in a row, without an answer from the Dartmouth Club.

A feature of the game was the
excellent passing of the Dal quintet, who displayed the best teamwork shown by Dal basketball outfit
in several years, and this teamwork paid off, as time and time
again, Dal forwards were put in
the clear in scoring position,

Dartmouth floored only six men
for the contest, but the issue was
settled before they tired, in the
first half. Dal shooting was a bit
off in this half, but even then they
scored 20 points, while limiting
their opponents to 9. The coaching
of Ken Chisholm showed dividends,
especially in the second half, as
the Dal team were registering
baskets from all over the floor, due
to continuous shooting plus close
follow up of the rebounds,

DAL 20 — Dartmouth 9

Play was slow for the first
quarter, as Dal couldn’t find the
range, although they controlled
the play, but they rolled up an 8
point lead, with Scott Morrison
sinking 3 baskets
the next few minutes play evened
up and Dartmouth countered seyeral times, bringing the score to
12-7. Dal again surged, led by
Farquhar, who sank 3 baskets,
mostly on breakaways, and ran
their half total to 20-9, in favor
of Dal.

In this half, Dal scored a total
of 10 field goals while Dartmouth
registered 4 baskets and 1 free
throw. Farquhar and Morrison led
the Dal attack with 6 points each,

CASINO

AN ODEON THEATRE

in a row. For

Starting Sat., Dec. 7

“YOUNG WIDOW”

with Jane Russell (the ‘Outlaw

Girl’), and Louis Hayward

 

December 6-7

Barbara Stanwyck, in
“STRANGE LOVE OF
MARTHA IVERS"

December 9-10-11
“TWO SMART PEOPLE”

Continuous daily 1 to 11 p.m.

 

      
 
 
   
 

Barry scoring 4 for Dartmouth.
Dal Scores 37 Points

Paced by Eddie Rogers, Morrison, Farquhar and Dunlop, who
moved through the Dartmouth defence almost at will, Dal rolled up
the score against their rapidly tiring opponents. Only the brilliant
playing of Fred Puttman kept
Dartmouth in the game at all.

Especially effective in this half
was the Dal line of Rogers, Morrison and Farquhar, who collected
a total of 29 points, mostly on
quick passing plays and fast breaks,

Rogers and Morrison led the Dal
scoring in this half with 12 and 11
points respectively, while Pittman
scored 12 for Dartmouth. Totals
in this half were: Dal—17 baskets
and three free tosses; Dartmouth
—10 baskets and 2 fouls.

Dal scored a total of 27 baskets
and 3 fouls in the game, Morrison
leading the parade with 17 points,
closely followed by Farquhar and
Rogers with 12 each, and Dunlop,
who came up from his guard position to score 8 points. Pittman
was high man for Dartmouth with
15 points.

 

      

iQ

Ee

ha

hn

os were smooth ag
= smooth can be?

r: A Wish fhe point
rr would last and last
os and LAST?

X Wish it were the
very finest pencil
for drawing and
writing you ever

laid hands on?

EAGLE

Make your wish
come true—

10¢

EACH
less in

=o

     

SUuFrER BONDS

Ati

PENCILS

 

From the first minute of play .

 

 

a

—
 

—

j
h Py
1 iT
re

la Na i
1 ;

[fe

f

Va

7,
ny

7
|

iy

   

    

DAUGHTER OF

THE APOTHECARY

When, under the mandate of heaven, the august Chu Yuang-chang,
whose reign ttle was Hung Wu, founded the celestial dynasty of the

‘Shen.

y ‘Ming, there lived in the Forbidden City an apothecary named Hai
: His dispensary was without the walls of the
itself, and he accumulated much wealth through the patronage of the
_ Imperial Household. |

Great Within

This scion of the Hai was, in spite of his wealth, a miserly and

avaricious man,
substance than fish scales,

His dragon-scale potions were of no more healing a
His tiger-bone remedies

contained the

bones of rats, and hence were of little worth. He even neglected to
purr the required number of joss-sticks before his ancestors (many
wf whom had been decapitated in the last generation), and ignored

‘the prescribed rites,

Being as near the Great With.
in as he was, with the Imperia’
Board of Rites sitting so close at
hand, it was odd indeed that such
a man escaped punishment. Many
have suffered decapitation anc
worse for lesser crimes than neglect of the Rites. There was 4
good reason, however. As the
aesthete cultivates the dry stalk
of the lotus plant for the sake of
the blossom, so did many  influential men cultivate old Hai for
the sake of his daughter, It was
whispered that even in the Imperial Household there was not a
‘more beautiful creature, and had
these rumours reached the Imperial ear her appointment to the
Imperial Concubinate would have
been decreed. The suitors took
good care, however, that no such
thing occurred.

No less than three senior mandarins of the Board of Rites and
two coral button mandarins of
the first class were among: her
following, and her odious father
was safe from disciplinary action.
His influence was felt in high
quarters, and his wealth increased, as different men strove
to find favor with him. He became engaged in various rémunerative but nefarious undertakings, which would not have gone
unpunished had he not had three
Suitors in the courts. There was
talk of his appointment to a magistracy, regardless of his ignorance of the classics.

When the barbarians from the
Bast came over the seas to offer
tribute and to establish warehouses, they brought gifts to Hai.
who obtained their concessions
from the city courts. His influence suffered sadly for this abuse
ot the prerogatives of the harbor
officials, and only with difficulty
‘was the President of the Board
of Rites able to obtain a decree
condoning the offence.

Too blind to be warned by
these events; and to tread: softly
‘for ‘some’ time, Hai joined with
thé radical Wang Yang-ming and
attempted to discredit the philoso.
pher Chuhsi. This came directly
under the jurisdiction of the
Board of Rites, as violation of
traditional precepts, and the Presi.
dent warned his future father-inlaw that he must in future avoid
infringement of the law, or be
punished.

The case was at its height 2
week later; the suitors attempted
to prevent a hearing, and were
Succeeding when the President
terminated the discussion and opened the cast himself.

The reasons for his unexpected
desertion of Hai's cause are narrated by the poet Li, who obtained the tale from one of the
servants of Hai’s house. One
morning Hai awoke and called
for his tea, and, as he drank it,
considered his wealth and influenee, and gloated over his immunity from the law in the person of

the President of the Board of

Rites. As he lay there a servant
came im trembling to say that his
daughter was not in her rooms
Another brought a note drawn on
the finest rice paper, which Hai
read with alarm. Being a badly
educated man he read with difficulty his daughter’s respects to
her august parent, and her hopes
that he would hive long and in
good health. She had, the note
continued, been kidnapped by #
junior mandarin from a distanf
province, and they would be mar:
ried by the time he received the
message,

The President of the Board of
Rites was inconsiderate enougl
to assume that he had lost face
in the affair, and not only allowed
his would-be father-in-law’s case
to be heard, but hastened the
trial which resulted in heavy fines
being levied upon Hai, and ultimately in his decapitation. A:
the poet Li so aptly puts it: “You
ean never tell with apothecaries’
daughters”.

 

Free Speech ?

Those who have criticised the
“policy” of The Gazette in allowing articles concerning Socialism
and the C.C.U.F, to appear on
page six apparently believe that
University students are incapable
of choosing between good and
evil in politics, although the government allows a substantial number of them to yote. If these persons have any concrete ideas on
the subject I am sure that the
students would be glad to have a
look at them; unfortunately most
of them will be content te loftily
condemn what they call the “policy” of The Gazette, and assert
that the campus is no place for
the C.C.U-F.

Assuming that the assertions
of these philosophers are correct
it would necessarily follow that
Universities have been of no use
in educating biologically mature
specimens of humanity, since
they are unable to distinguish
even between good and evil. If

students are so incapable, I am
surprised that those who have
complained consider themselves

eapable of deciding so considerable a matter as what should be
allowed them in mental freedom,

and what not. If they have

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

    

Free Political Thinking In A
Democracy

The best form of government is the one which is best
Even the C.C.F. party must agree to that.

people.

for the
The C.C.F. party

believes that government control of practically everything is desirable.

Granted Government Control is not bad in every way.
is the degree to which this control is exercised,
stand how much is beneficial and how much is not.

The question
We must clearly underIn some cases It

is advisable but it does not follow that it is so in the majority of casés.
A tendency towards extreme socialism and similarly extreme capitalism leads to dictatorship. An example of the former is Russia today.
Adolf Hitler was supported by a strong group of great financiers, not

a great popular revolution of the people.

In addition to this illustra
tion the early history of capitalism in England and the United States,
when the British Government was controlled by people of great wealth.

—————
sound reasons for their argument, they should leave the University, since it cannot even teach
them to decide such things for
themselves,

If such groups as the C.C.U-F.
were forbidden in our Universities, it would set a dangerous precedent for free thought’s being
abolished among students. One
Canadian University been
misguided enough to do so, and
their branch of the C. C. U. F.
has solved this problem by meeting off the Campus.

The
deeper than the expulsion of a
single society from the campus
If this were to happen it would
make martyrs of a comparatively harmless group, and thus reflect upon those who may have
had some ulterior motive in the
We would also find Universities in a position to suppress
the political freedom of their students on the basis of the precedent thus set. I myself am not
in sympathy with the C.C.U.F,
but they are the first people on
this campus who thought enough
of their tenets to found a club
for them. It does not speak well
for those of other political groups
that they attempt to suppress this
group rather than found their
own. I will not be so presamptuous as to suggest that they have
nothing to offer in this respect
but that assumption will be made
by many if they merely sit back
and make half-hearted attempts
to prevent the C.C,.U.F.’s meeting.

has

question is somewhat

matter,

If the dissenting groups are
not afraid to produce their propaganda, let them do so in the
form of their own political clubs
If, as I suspect, this would result
in dehates between these clubs
an institution of the Oxford Union
vitriety, might eventually emerge
which is one of the crying needs
in this place. The paucity of the
student support at present given
to the Sodales Debating Society
indicates that something new is
needed in its place. The splendid
work of the President of the Society has gone unrewarded in the
shape of student attendance, beyond a few faithfuls or the friends
of the debaters.

 

FOR HIM

When I first saw your face,

The last veil loosened,
Clear against the sky,

I knew that what had passed

From your soul into mine

Would never fade.

My mind, made richer by your thoughts,
Waxed brightly, waned with yours away,

Until I felt I did not live

Except in yon; and in that single moment
Saw our lives made one, and knew,
However lone the way I tread,

A part of you will always go with me,

AURORA.

The way dictatorship evolves
from Socialism is that it naturally follows that control of most of
the industries of a country connotes contrel over most of the
lives of the people. Most of the
people would be working for the
Government and the Government
would be able to influence their
votes in the same way that the
yotes of people working for capi
be influenced. Howno similar
in the

talists can
ever, there would be

forces influencing votes

other direction or contrary to
the policy of the Government
Thus barring extremist manage
ment or national disaster it would
be most difficult to displace such
a Government even though it became corrupt and for the
country.

bad

My contention is that although
admittedly our present system Is
not working satisfactorily
and there are many things to be
done yet, should be to
make our present work
better. The human factors that
are hampering the efficient operation of our present system, that
is to say, human frailities, corruption and excessive patronage
and selfishness would show them.
selves in any form of government
We must seek a form of government which tends as much as pos.
sible to expose these weaknesses
rather than one which from its
very nature gives those in power
a chance to exploit them.

The C.C.U.F. has no place in a
university. At university

very

our aim
system

our

 

\ Friday, December 6, 1946

   

sims should be to assimilate as
many facts as possible, in an on.
manner,

decision, as best we

come to an
honest can
on the basis of those facts, not to
takeyone faction or one point of
view and attempt to proselytise
our fellow students. Faction
from its very nature is blind to
other points of view. We prefer
to air our opinions on a forum of
all points of view; rather than in
a meeting open only to fellow
worshippers.

I concur with the Editor in his
Editorial of two weeks ago, in
which he said: “Freedom of
thought of speech, of activity,
freedom to form an independent
opinion must not be hampered by
the requirements of an outside
authority.” The members of the
C.C.U.F. are free to belong to
any party they wish, but they
should realize that because they
are free to. form such an organization, it does not say that is
advisable for them to do so.

BRENT GIBSON.

biased and

ne

ean PY etal al
CIGARETTE »

4 Mea dic
VERY NOURISHING

 

 

 
 

4

é

S

ey

f 7 ee 7
co ee
Friday, December 6, 1946

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

  

 
   

, Page Seven

meer. 2, AL AOR ES

 

FLOUNDER’S |
DAY-TODAY

To-day is December 6th. Perhaps you do not know that in days
fone by this was a holiday on the Campus, Yes, December 6th was
Hiounder’s Day. Other Universities have Founders’ Day, but Dalhousie with the assistance of the Nova Scotia Fisheries Dept. had
Flounder’s Day.

From what data we have been able to obtain it would seem that
on December 6th, 1882, a hapless student, George Kelligrew, gathered
together some flounders and threw them into the teeth of a howling
Gael. The howling Gael was Angie MacKay, dean of men. As this was
a little out of otder Professor MacKay was somewhat discomfited, and
in 188% he returned the compliment by surreptitiously slapping the
student Kelligrew in the eye with an old flounder that happened to be
lying around the men’s residence.

By 1886, this custom had become general, and in 1901 the senate
decreed that December 6th would be a School Holiday called Flounder’s Day. Each year the student body and the faculty met in fierce
battle which lasted from dawn to dusk. Every form of devilish weapon
was utilized for flinging flounders, In 1924, Casualties stood at 765
wounded and 186 smelling fishy. (At that date this constituted the
whole student body). In the same year those trenches were dug which
are now referred to mistakenly as the C. O. T. C. trenches.

It was in 1982 that Flounder’s day came to an end. The sun rose
on a peaceful campus, Quiet prevailed, But wait; what is that, stealthily
crossing the football field? On closer inspection it is seen to be a truck,
loaded with over-ripe flounders and manned by a group of professors.
Silently they back the truck up to the Gym Store window, and quickly
shovel the founders in on the unsuspecting students, Screams of sheer

terror assailthe early morning air. Boys and girls are buried beneath
an avalanche of fish.

Chuckling over their coup, the professors turned to make their
retreat and saw with consternation that they were cut of from their
home base, “The Lodge.” Right in their path was a group of students
gathered about a huge engine, of the type used by the Romans against
their enemies, A raucous voice cried “Fire!’, and a cloud of fish flew
through the air knocking the professorial legions to the ground, Quickly it was noised around that students had won the day, for the professors
were all unconscious. Just in the nick of time the day was saved. The
president dashed up to the scene, took one look at the debacle, declared
the victory forfeit, and banned Flounder’s Day forever, The students
had used canned Salmon. ,

Diary Of Samuel Jeeps

 

Nov. 29 Up betimes and spent the day at preparing for the great
ball which was to take place this night. On entering the grand ballroom 1 was seized by villains and very roughly handled, finally being
able to escape. However, later in the evening, after much had been
drank by all and sundry, this vengeful spirit changed to one of gaiety

and a most joyous time was had by all the guests. Albeit I did see some

most disturbing occurrences. | was most distressed by the appearance
of a younf lady who was wearing a very low-cut dress and did surprise
many of the local young blades. I did notice that later in the evening
she had a falling-out with her gentleman friend. I was later informed
that she was Lady Jean Bowers. Further, Sir Jack Bowen was much
impressed with a certain “Borrowed Bionde” at the dance, Rumors
were brought to me that Master Howard Norman is either involved in
a Secret romance, or has become a woman-hater. Lady Noelle is still
wondering. I did observe with some feeling of wonder that Lady Marg
Goldberg did much to make Frank Gould happy on his last week-end
at Dalhousie. So, weary and no small whit drunk, to bed.

Dec, 2: Up and to the office, after seeing My Lord Frank Gould
off on the Stage-Coach to Manchester. Meeting MacDougall’s wife at
the office I kissed her at which she was much incensed. I could not
but note that despite her protests she takes it well enough, Hence to
the Gym Inn where I did hear a most delightful story. A certain
young psuedo-actress of the town, who has been leading a double life of
late, was heard to be carrying on a scene somewhat similar to the
balcony scene from Romeo and Juliet at the hall. I was informed of
some of the ce*versation, to whit: She: “wait, I’ll be right down,” He:
“Well, hurry up.” She: “I can't come down, someone heard me’, He:
“OK, I’m going.” We wonder which of the two love-lorn swains it was.
Much amused by ail this, after a class of port, I to home and bed.

Dec. 6: Up at dawn and had my maid comb my head clean, which
I found so foul with powdering and other things that I am resolved
to try how I can keep my head dry without powder; and I did also in
& suddaine fit cut off all nty beard which [I had been a great while
bringing up. To the office where I did fall to boring holes through the
wall that I may see into the great office without being observed. On
peering through one of these holes I did see Sir Gordon Reid, the King’s
representative looking much dis-shevelled with a woman's lip-paint, on
his surcoat. Much distressed I home and to bed.

 

Med, Professor: “Suppose the What would you do?”
patient had a broken leg, was First Year Med.: “Doc, I'd bury
very pale, and showed no pulse, him!" _

 

MED NOTES

Now that there is apparently
a lull in the Rusted vs McGill
battle, attention in Med school is
centering around the case of the
Nova Scotia Government vs Gus
MacLeod. The cause of the disagreement being the disappearance of 30 gals. of clear glistening fluid from the Pathological
institute. The mere fact that Gus
a P. E. Islander, was present in
the building on the night of the
crime, is sufficient, evidence to indict him at least on a charge of
“res ipse loquiter’. Apparently
Gus plans to have a good supply
of Xmas Cheer on hand this year.

Words of praise are in order
for Dr. Uppie Moffatt for his clear
sonorous diction, and in all, a stirring performance in the recent
play production, Twelfth Night.

Bouquets are also in order for
the Med Interfac Basketball team
on winning their initial game
Presenting the same team whict
has reached the playoffs in the last
three years, they held a comfortable command of play, although the
Score perhaps does not indicate it
When this team becomes bolstered
by some of the first year men, it
promises to be a strong contender for the interfac crown.

It is sufficient to say that
eXams are here. Merry Xmas and
stuff.

LAW NOTES

“Ora et Labora’—pray and
work, or is it play and work?
However, whatever it is the latter part of that descriptive epi.
gram now comes out for its semiannual appearance. With exams
in the not-to-distant future, the
Law._Library is being used more
and more for the purpose for
which it was intended. The sight
of frantic students nervously fin:
gering over pages with mechani.
cal precision in the race against
time is enough to astound the
most energetic Arts student. Right
now it’s a question who will win
the race, the “frantic students”
or the Grim Reaper.

Those with an eye to the fu.
ture are planning big things for '
Law School debaters in the new
year. The annual oratorical bat.

 

; ny

. |

» COCA-COLA LTD.
HALIFAX

n

“ sey
ns

%,

HOW MANY Ia

T-SQUARE

Since this is the last column
before Christmas, we would like
to take this opportunity to wish
all and sundry good luck in the
exams and a Merry Christmas.
Happy New Years will be tossed
out after the coming of same,

A large vote of thanks is due
Professor MacKenzie for not as

 

signing a plate in Mech. 4, for the

last week of classes. If this practice were followed in all drafting
courses (Ed. note: and in all
other courses) exams would not
be the nightmare they are to 50
many poor draftsmen who find
themselves forced to work almost
to the hour of the exam on their
plates.

While we are on serious topics
it should be reported that many
Engineers have objected strongly
to the use being made of the com.
mon room by various groups, to the

 

tle with the Saint John Law School
is coming ,off some time in Janu.
ary, and in February Osgoode
Hall debaters are coming down
here to show us how it is done up
in “Canada”. Better brush up
on the rhetoric over the holidays
boys, trials will be held soon after
we return.

ADVICE TO DAL BEAUTY
FANCIERS: Remember what
Ruskin said: “The most beautiful
things in the world are the most
useless’’,

os

Coke= Coca-Cola
“Coca-Cola” and ics abbreviation “Coke”
are the fegiscered trade marks which
distinguish the product of Coca-Cola Led,

 

 

Pg

oe
NCL:

(eS

J

exclusion of many students whe
use the room for studying, eating.
sleeping, and in these crowded
times, drafting. It is the feeling
that since the room is used a5 @
study room as well as for ite
original purpose, and the Engin:
eers have no other place to go
during their free hours, whereas
meetings could be held in the
Studley Common Room, the Mun:
roe Room, the Morse Room, the
Homestead, or in one of the
Cathedral study rooms, the WEL.
COME mat should be carefully
guarded during the weeks immediately before exams.

SOCIAL NOTES: Lost: by
Willett—one girl friend. Replacement desired. FOUND: by Flynn
odd shoes on his feet. Will swap
with a freshman. NEEDED: by
Vail and party—snowshoes, to be
used in completing Geological
Survey.

“The Simplest Way to Open a
Mind is through an Interesting
Bit of Information’. And that
is just what every good news
paper endeavors to accomplish
Every keen student must follow daily events and public
questions and judge accordingly with an Open mind.

Over 85,000 Daily Circulation,

Read
THE HALIFAX HERALD
and

THE HALIFAX MAIL

“Two of Canada’s Greatest
Newspapers”

Drink =

 

 

 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

~.. i

=

ee
Zz
+

~_
a

» a

‘now headless Gould,

“(Continued Read page 1)
Screamed as the axe aescended on

the effigy of the late Mr. Harris.

dit should be explained that Kerry cannot stand the sight of red
jae).

Next Frank Gould read his own
death warrant without faltering

He was sentenced for leaving
Dalhousie and going to Topeka,
Benes and India,
evergrowing excitement
the ‘ecowd witnessed this enactment of justice.
Or was it justice? The law

‘students weren't so sure. Had
there been a trial? No, and that
was the reason they were aghast.
“Ts there a habeas corpus in

the house,” asked one law man?

‘There wasn't. But as they
mulled over the various fou
deeds attributed to the beheaded,
misgivings of the law-minded fadéd, their frowns disappeared and
they rejoined the fun with renewed and bloodthirsty glee.

The final chop removed the
cranium of one person for whom
Dal holds no soft spot.

Tt was Col, Stuart Forbes, MecGill's athletic director—need we
say more?

With the sentence drawled by
the Colonel
was cashiered and he met his fate
as a private,

In short—there was no shortage of excitement at the Gazette
dance, the music was tops, and a

rare time was had by all.

 

COUNCIL, SENATE
(Continued from Page 1)
you that Senate policy is as stated in the following resolution
which was passed at today’s meet

ing:

(a) The University does not attempt to regulate the private
habits of students so long as they
do not disregard the usages of
eonventional decency.

(b) However, in view of the
fact that the serving of alcoholic
beverages at functions authorized
by the Council of the Students
may be detrimental to the good
name of the University, the Senate is opposed to the practice, it
being understood that no student
function may be held without that
authorization.

(c) The Senate has delegated
to the Council, of the Students
“jurisdiction to deal with stu:
dents who conduct themselves in
an unbecoming manner on or beyond the premises of the University during the session”, (Con
‘stitution of Student Body of Dal- —

housie University, Article 4, Section 7). The Senate expects the
Council to make necessary pro.
vision for the effective discharge
of this responsibility, especially
at social or athletic gatherings.
I should also like to inform you
that President Kerr spoke in
glowing terms of the deportment
of the student body generally at
the functions which he has attended this year.
Yours truly,
(Sed.) J. H. L, JOHNSTONE,
Secretary of Senate)
Dalhousie University.

Actress Lauds

(Continued from Page 3)
hearsais. He also mentioned that
Work on the three-act play, had
already started.

Business ¢ completed, the gather:
ing joined ip on a sing-song, ac
companied by Lloyd Soper at the
waar ae the singing of Auld
ped tank

 

“Twelfth Night”

the pages of

ar ‘end ‘the annals of
dramatic history.

 
 
   

 

 

 

3-Act Comedy

 

(Continued from page 1)

him to use anyone without previous experience under him.

‘Those four are: Art Hartling,

Lloyd Soper, Frank Fleming and
Don Harris. However, the choice
for other parts is wide open, and
he hopes to finalize them next Sunday, Dec. 8th, in the Dal Gym, at
2:30.

The Glee Club has requested
that all those wishing to take
part in the play turn out for this”
casting practice, especially female
students, since there are, at present, more parts than candidates.

 

Forum Moots

(Continued from page 1)

Bill of Rights was then discussed.
After some discussion the meeting concluded that the value of
written documents has been highly over-rated. It was decided
that our best protection is still an
informed electorate.

The meeting was unanimous in
condemnation of the government
action regarding Japanese-Cana
dians. The next meeting will be
held Tuesday; January 7, 1946.

ERRATUM

The Way of Trial is the Way of
Light—Line 107 omitted.

He thought that songs of Nature
and of Love

Were frivolous beyond a pvet’s
care,

For one so well endowed by God
above.

Line 84—
What said he then of prose and
(of) the curse.
(Of was omitted).

ey

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE
D. G. A. C.

(Continued from Page 4),
throughout, and ending at 16-16
The first quarter ended 8-8, and
during the second the Sophs took
the lead, by half time chalking
up a score of 15-12. The Seniors
exerted renewed strength in the
final frame, bringing in 2 field
goals to the Sophs’ single free
throw. This brought the tota’
score to 16-16. High scorer for
the seniors was Irene Robinson
and for the sophs, Frannie Doane.

Seniors: Irene Robinson 12
Lois Rattee 2, Joyce Hart 2, Sib
Pentz, Kay MacLean, Mary Far
guhar.

Sophs: Thelma Aslin 6, Frannie
Doane 10, Pat Godfrey, Pam Stevens, Budgie Archibald, Leslie
Ann Hayes.

In the second game the Fresh
ettes held the lead throughout
but found themselves up against a
hard fighting and keén shooting
team. The initial frame ended in
favor of the Freshettes, who were,
however only two baskets ahead
The final was keener, and as soon
as the Juniors would shorten the
scoring gap the Freshettes would
widen it. The final
26-19. Nancy Jones was ‘he
Freshettes’s high scorer, while
Barb Smith displayed accurate
shooting for the Juniors.

Juniors: Betty Griffith 6, Jean
Noftle 5, Barb Smith 8, Elsie
Cruickshank, Carmel White, Ail
een McKenna.

Freshettes: Pat Snuggs 4, Lik
Doull 4, Marg O'Neill 8, Nancy
Jones 10, Priscilla Raymond
Marie Dee, Jocelyn Rogers.

Several people have complained
that the minor sports don’t get
enough recognition in this col.
umn. If you have any suggestions regarding its material they
would be greatly appreciated.

 

score Was

“Boy oh boy .. am I ever ready for a Sweet Cap!"

SWEET CAPORAL CIGARETTES
“ The purest form in which tobacco can be smoked”

Sell Canadn's newent, fanient-selling Christmas Cards Exclusive
with REGAL. Sell the 2)-card
feature box for $1, or REGAUS
emer Pe: bor af all
Hike Sates!

tnerodoes ORES ZA LS wonder.

ful new Canadian Scenes bax.
16 cards by Lamous Canadian

Chanvstimas

Gite oo for $L = the intrigui pone
ie cat BAL TATIONER

eT Se ee C0.

oronta, Ont. oF

163 W. ane Besos ac

Green Lantera
The Sign of a Geod
Meal.

 

 

Fort Massey
Church

Queen Street at Tobin

75TH ANNIVERSARY
Sunday, December 8th

THE PUBLIC WORSHIP
OF GOD
at 11 a.m. and 7:30 p.m.

Anniversary Preacher:
Rev. Dr. George C. Pidgeon,
Gin
Bloor Street Church, Toronto

Fort Massey invites you to

worship and to hear this distinguished preacher.

 

        
 

SHAVE AND

(Continued from Page 2)

am so we'll make a bet. If I can
give you one that you can’t guess
you can pay me a dollar, but
since you are_ better educated
than I am I ill only pay you
fifty cents. Then he brightens
uf considerable and says: O.K
again. Then I ask him if he
knows what animal has three legs,
nine eyes, pink dots on its back
and lives in Mongolia. This has
him stumped, so he says: I don’t
know. Here’s your dollar. Now
you tell me what it is. So I say:
I don’t know either. Here's your
fifty cents. As I am still not very
near to getting my haircut and it
is probably even colder outside
and I now have one dollar, I decide to do my Xmas shopping instead.

DOIG’S LETTER

(Continued from Page 4)

treme to the other. This then is
sufficient to cover the present set
of facts, from which the student
body can draw its own inferences.
DAVE DOIG,

FOR SALE
ARTS AND SCIENCE
PINS
A LIMITED NUMBER
OF PINS AT $1.50 ARE
AVAILABLE AT THE

GAZETTE OFFICE.

THE
CAMERA
SHOP

26 BLOWERS STREET
HALIFAX, N. 5. |

Everything
Photographic

 

Corsages

A “Colonial” Cersage de.
signed by ROSEDALE
speaks eloquent volumes
of tenderness and love,

 

NURSERIES Limited...
38! sarrington sT- HALIFAX

$

>

7

It’s part of the
aS curricula

3 |

SOSOOCOOO

 

 

 

 

Friday, December 6, 1946

VENUS

 

VELVET

PENCILS ARE

 

 
  
   
 

PRESSURE. ‘

This means that
the lead is actually
bonded to the wood.
You can’t buy better
school pencils !

VENUS PENCIL CO., LTD., TORONTO

 

 

 

 

 

—
