   

 
  

VoL. ,

4 Student Veterans’

 

  

a an a

Ps

HALIFAX, N. S.

OLDEST STUDENT PUBLICATION

 

Friday, October 18, 1946

 

 

y ‘eterans Association

Holds Record Meeting

‘The first meeting for the 1946-47 term of the Dalhousie-Kings

Association was opened by the president, Alex
_ Hart, last Thursday noon in the gymnasium building.
_. Mr. Hart introduced Professor Bennett, the Dalhousie D.V.A.

Counsellor, who explained the nature of his Position to the record

assembly of 700 veteans.

Prof. Bennett attended a conference of D.V.A.

counsellors at

U.B.C. during the summer, where the problems confronting studentveterans were aired, and he stateS that it is his opinion that Dalhousie
has handled the main problems, housing and pay, as successfully as

any other Canadian university.

He also said that the name of
every veteran attending the university will be posted outside the
veterans association office, wkether the student is to receive D.V.A.
benefits or not. However, he advised all veterans who expect
benefits to ensure that their
mames are on the list. He emphasized that it is the responsibility of the student to ensure that
the Registrar's letter of acceptance is rernren by the D.V.A.
office.

they have been married since discharge, if they have had any
family additions, and if their
present housing is unsatisfactory.

a raise of pay had been turned
down by the government, it was
not to be considered a dead issue.
He announce dthat an election
would be held at the next regular
monthly meeting, and that a vicepresident and a member for each
standing committee (preferably
freshmen) would be elected.
‘Mr, Hart then introduced the
following Legion branch presidents: W. C. Dunlop, K.C., of
Cornwallis Branch; G. W. Hicks,
Scotia Branch and J. E. O’Connel,

Colin Smith, chairman of the
general duties committee, then
took the floor to explain the activities of his committeé. He stated

COUNCIL CUTS,
ARGUES, VOTES,
EXPENDITURES

On Tuesday night the executive
committee of the Students’ Coun.
cil met for the purpose of considering the budgets of the various organizations and groups
which have the Council as their
source of financial supply. The
meeting lasted for over seven
hours, and even then all business
was not completed.

This year the Council has the
largest estimated income on
record, approximated at $17,000.
It also has largest estimated expenditure on record. Original requests of submitted budgets managed to exceed the income by
$290.98. After due consideration,
debate and cutting, however, authorized expenditures totalled
$16,085.83.

Budgets authorized are as follows:

at the meeting of the Council held
Wednesday night. In _ addition,
there were deferred for further
consideration, items totalling ap
Rented Crowd At Student

Council Dance —

On Friday, October 11, at 8:30 p.m. preceding the first Student
Council Dance of the season, the annual Frosh Show was presented to
students and guests gathered for an evening of first class entertain
ment.

The show removed all doubts as to the talents of the freshman
class of 1946, and they deserve great credit for the spirit they dis
played in undertaking such a task. Don Low’s orchestra provided the
music for the dance following the Frosh presentation. Chaperones were

Dr. and Mrs. Kerr, Dr. and Mrs. Bell, Professor and Mrs. Bennett and

Mr. and Mrs. Havey.

Curtain! The show opened with the chorus singing ‘Holiday for

Strings’.

casioned great mirth on the part of the chorus.

Vic Starrat and John Pauley told several jokes (7?) that oc
This was followed by

an amusing black-face act combining the talents of Al Robertson and

Scott Morrison, and a piano solo,

Jocelyn Rogers.
‘Drink to me Only’. 
C.C.U.F. URGES
PARTICIPATION
IN DISCUSSIONS.

An organization meeting of the
C.C.U.F. will be held in room 2

 

of the Arts’ building at 12 noon,

Oct. 22, at which Allan Blakeney,
vice-presient of the Students’
Couneil, will outline in detail the
purpose of the society.

Briefly, the C.C.U.F. is the Cooperative Commonwealth University Federation, and its purpose is
to encourage in the university the
discussion of political issues. Although the organization is affiliated with the C.C.F. party, it
welcomes students of all political
complexions to attend its meetings.

Gordon Black, chairman of the
C.C.U.F., points out that there is
(Continued on Page 8)

 

‘Turkey in the Straw’ featuring

The male chorus, directed by Geoff Payzant, sang

The next attraction was entitled
‘Creative Dancing’ and featured
both fresh men and freshettes.
Some were of the opinion that
the dancing was enlivened by the
clowning of Al Robertson. The
rendition of two musical number
by Jean Carter were most enthusiastically received by the
audience.

In lighter vein, a comedy was
presented by Ian Morrison and
Ken Phillips (Abbot and Costello
take note).

To the scintillating strains of
“Dalhousie Dream Girl’, rendered by the chorus, those present
were forced to behold a fashion
parade featuring four of this
year’s more comely freshmen.
Those present fully appreciated
the good points of this particular
number.

On with the show! An amusing
“Talent Scout’’ act starring Jerry
“Boris” Morse and Harold Wam
Notification of pay parades will Vimy Branch. DAB. cerrrerreesecennee $5,162.90 — Regular meetings will be held at poldt followed. Jerry’s versatility
be posted on the notice board, and Expressing his disappointment SR ZOCIE TE cecvirynoe soins setens 3,915.00 which papers will be read by mem- amazed and amused ‘the audience
in view of the fact that between at the small number of veterans Glee Clabi .5 ccs... 3,004.68 pers of the group, followed by no end. Everyone is looking for$3,000,000 and $4,000,000 will be who had turned out for recent Students Council ...... 2,500.00 discussion periods. Whenever pos- ward for more Morse!
piad out this year by the D.V.A. Halifax parades, Mr. Dunlop wel- DIAG seul anid Ah only 1,240.00 sible, the organization will ar- A aRaedd' -wicannaea oph
office, students are expected to comed the Dalhousie Veterans’ WOURIBMS ateetcessscansees &.. 165.75 range visits by prominent speak- Himmhia Boo cd 4 cs %» oe ;
be tolerant of any errors, Association to take an active part Delta Gamma ............. 97.50 ers from outside the university Sia Ae eye
Vets are also asked to report, in the coming Remembrance Day ROUGE eater seienetaystsrec $16,085.83 who will lecture on matters of Pc by “Al ; a : 7 a
if they have not done so, whether parade on the 11th of November. These figures were authorized’ interest. Wile duatocte | Gane Raa

then returned to the stage to give
two colorful tap dancing numbers.
In contrast to “Bumble Boogie”.

At the conclusion of Prof. Ben- - that his ‘organization had been proximately $1,700. Rejected fees, there is the sum of poate ® otis tare ec played i “The
a nett’s informative address, Mr. able to provide jobs for all student items totalled approximately imately $5,300 from the Year a Fe : ; nee ig from
‘, Hart again took command of the ‘veterans who had wanted them $1,000. Book levy of $3.00 per person. whic e former was adapted.

t

—— ae
ne ais

ya Rtn. a

spel tm

ss
PE

meeting. He informed his audience that.although the request for

during the past summer, and that
(Continued on Page 8)

Added to the estimated income
of $17,900 from direct Council

Further business conducted included: appointment of Bill Pope
(Continued on Page 8)

CO-VETTES NOTICE

A meeting of the Co-Vettes
will be held Friday, October 18th,
at 8:30 p.m. in the Envpineers’
common room. All wives of veterans and ex-service women are
welcome.

 

&

 

 

DALHOUSIE - ACADIA |

‘The finale featured the current
hit “To Each His Own’, sung by
charming Beryl Farmer, accompanied by the entire chorus while
a bevy of freshettes, representing
the pulchritude of the campus,
waltzed in a white cloud around
the stage.

In all respects this show surpassed all others that preceded it,

(Continued on Page 8&8)

Return Game

 

a:

 

ae pent
a \

=

a

  

Mie
al oe

     
 

  

se

    
 

ay xe SOR

   

2

 
    

a

Se . Sa oe a
= Pe ee Oe ee ee ;

    
 
    
 

   
  

Soe ea

“
’
2

        
       
           
       
      
      
       
       
     

Place’ Acadia Time: Saturday 19

TIME-TABLE | ‘\
Embus at: Dal Geyaeh iin cesisscccnikccsskcaresiiontys 9.15 a.m.
Derive at: Wolf walle. cainscsadedsiccesccdecasosisdsavesesiuns Noon

a
~ \ ati Seaie?

*

a> Ss

Eat at Kentville en route to game
GAME

Eat at Kentville after game.

Dance (probably)

Leave Kentville (as buses are filled)

Only 90 are available. Price $2.00
Phoné Phil Raymond, 3-5695

 

return.

The above devotees to the art of cheese-cake display, more than usual, natural talents, while members of

 

‘ ‘the chorus look on, at the Frosh show.

  
   

 
 

=,

a ‘
Filia! ; Wis tale
ae Sy he ae 4
Rag ee ae ya
a « *

   

  

 

  
 

‘

    

. —

_ CANADA’S OLDEST STUDENT PUBLICATION

   
  

Editor-in-Chief .

 
 

   

R MOREIRA RALPH MacDONALD MARY FARQUHAR
Rewriter _ Office Mgr. ° Photographer
JTVIAN LUSHER ~ BILL OGILVIE DON MORRISON
ie Business Manager Cartoonist
- DON HARRIS BOB TUCK

   

ss CONTRIBUTORS AND REPORTERS THIS WEEK:

Don Chipman, Lew Miller, John Pauley, Ken Boite, Marjorie Archibald, Bill Ogilvie, Mary Lou Christie, Harry Rhude, Bob Grant,
Bob ‘Wolman Abe Leventhal, Bob Tuck, Peggy Rundle, Ted

nay Shields, Aubrey Shane, Red Lampert.

 
  

 

Friday, Oct. 18, 1946 No. 2

Seat Acadia!
peat Acadia?
" a ' . : 7
As the: editorials of the war years rotate-rapidly in their graves,
undertake another sally on that timeworn phrase ‘Dalhousie Spirit.’
ae ofa, This week's sport pages make very unpleasant reading. Four
Rul games and four defeats make an unpleasant thought. The GAZETTE
‘ “ places very little, blame on the Tigers. It DOES. place the blame
a on Dalhousie and on the student body.
“ah kereans Dalhousie spirit is not dead. Neither a resurrection nor a funeral
- es _joratory is needed. There is needed a redirection and reallocation of
Me We cis
_-_.. . Dalhousie has long been known for a particular brand of spirit.
ee ar ie “Instead of the enthusiasm which vents itself only on the football field,
associated with mass hypnosis and contemptuously referred to as ‘Rah,
Rah’, it has made Dalhousians feel they need raise their hats to no

 

a Det one. It has been an inward feeling, rather than a superficial display.
bis) ta eSaeh a feeling results in spontaneous support of ALL Dalhousie
It is an essential in the every day life of the university.

es 486
; ¥

| | activities.
maT

_—sdAts outward display is necessary upon occasion.

- -——s Tomorrow represents such an occasion. We cannot make the
_-_-~—s« Tigers win by cheering. WE CAN HELP.

ee . Go to Acadia—help the Tigers win a victory that will make last
eat week-end look like ancient history.

hag t; BEAT ACADIA !!

-Participati
Participation
y a paar Science has appreciably extended man’s life expectancy—but not
ni to the extent that he can afford to remove four years from his life
S) and say, “in these four years I shall cease to live and shall go to
college.” Time is still man’s most precious possession.

ity: University is the interim period between participation in high7 i _ school, or in the past few years, service, activities, and participation

ey: \ im community and business life. It is a metamorphosis—not a stagna
 

The modern university offers two avenues of preparation—conMae current highways leading to the same destination—study and partici+) in pation in student activities. Both are essential.

ss Dalhousie is well equipped to offer both. Its academic standing
ns ot «Sere€ the highest degree. Within its student organizations it presents
nae opportunity to take part in almost every form of community activity.
ria To name but a few; athletics, glee and dramatic, musical, politpe)! jical, journalistic, community planning, current affairs and literary.
eee ‘These activities cover a very wide range of interest—and are open to
Pa re Oe anh | F
ve Bate Mes Interest and participation lead to spirit. Without them, no numPaes ber of cheerleaders can excite a Dalhousie feeling worthy of being
? galled Dalhousie spirit. ,

te ei
ED ro .
| THE EDITOR'S MAIL
1s Dear Sir:

Bees. ca: Meetings at Dalhousie University have been so haphazardly co| rdinated that on Thursday, Oct. 10, two meetings which greatly af
Sat sh _ fected the campus lives of roughly 50% of the freshmen class in one
instance, and 50% of the entire student body in the other, were held

, at the same hour. !

~ In the election of officers at the Freshman Class meeting,

ie A naturally, not one veteran was elected to represent this great, afore
mentioned percentage.

pares We do not wish to cause any rift between veterans and non
_ veteran students, and in writing this letter it is not our intention to
do so. However, we do wish to stress the lack of a co-ordinating comah a mittee which will ensure that such an egregious blunder will not occur

. Pa ~ again,

ot We shall feel satisfied if the Students’ Council will look into the

ats matter, and will bring forth a rational solution to offset any repetition
_ ofthe above occurrénce, — f

va — S

TWO VETS.


ve a os d a ae ‘ he 3 ee ci
ode. rer, We te a oe Wy) Mer lie ay! ae mad ad :
ea A eee berg shy Sh ee Sy hy te al ibe yc

AL Loma$§ (3-4505) \
Baka Features Sports
ART JACK LUSHER ~ DON HARRIS
ports C.. BF: Co-ed Ed. .
N DOANE VERN WALLACE JEAN BOWERS
Proofreader : Circulation

\ '

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

Canadian
Campus

..--. A C,.U.P. Feature
University Publications

On each Canadian campus,
whether it be large or small, one
of the most important student activities is the publication of the
university newspaper. In French
and in English, in tabloid and full
sheet form, it appears on the different campi from Nova Scotia
to British Columbia, and of the
seventeen papers which make up
the membership of the Canadian
University Press no two are alike,
Each has a style and a personality that reflects the trends and
interests of the student body it
serves.

In these individualistic university publications the news of
Canadian college life “breaks into print.”

THE UBYSSEY:

This year the Ubyssey holds
the position of President and Secretary of Canadian University
Press. .Published tri-weekly, one
of the many publications on the
University of British Columbia
campus, it provides practical experience for students interested
in journalism, who through it can
try to qualify for two scholarships sponsored by downtown
newspapers for hopeful journalists.

THE WESTERN GAZETTE:

College spirit is one of the outstanding characteristics of the
Western Gazette, campus newspaper at the University of Western Ontario. Following a policy
of impartiality towards campus
politics, The Gazette supplies the
student body with news and features written with an eye on the
tastes of its readers. Last year
and this, the Gazette has inaugurated- awards to be given for
outstanding work in the publication.

LE QUARTIER LATIN:

Two years ago, Le Quartier

-Latin was considered as an out
standing literary magazine, in a
classification of French publications of North and South America, and was awarded a prize in
the “Prix David’ contest of the
Quebec provincial government.
THE ARGOSY:

The Argosy, campus paper of
Mount Allison University is used
to bring student opinion before
the general student body. All letters of complaint against the university are submitted to faculty
heads when they are given to the
editor, and after the elapse of a
week, if the trouble is not rectified, the letter is printed in the
Argosy. In. this way students
have a chance through their
paper to put their theories into
practice and have their wrongs
rectafied.

Go
To
cadia!

, SATURDAY

 

  

   

 

    
 

fs

    
             
     

“

  
      
     
     
      
         
 

fa

     
   
   
 
   
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
   
 
 
   
 
 
  
   
   
  
  
 
  
  
    
   
  
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  

Dal. Off Hours

Can Be Very Profitably Spent at the

Maritime Business College
73 College Street |

Students who do not desire a complete course in any of the

   
  
  
  
  
    

seven courses are admitted as General Students.

The evening classes are held on Monday and Thursday
7.30 to 9.30 * Tuition $5 per month
SHORTHAND and TYPEWRITING.
will be valuable aid in future years

Enter any day. Tuition counts from date of Registration

  

 

 

MARVEN’S BISCUITS

 

FAVORITES SINCE 1906

Moncton, N. B.
St. John Quebec ) Montreal

g oN

eens

Halifax

Halhousie University
ea Halifax, Nova Scotia

i Largest Staff, Libraries and Laboratories in the Maritimes
The Faculty of Arts and Science iS

enjoys international distinction =e
a |
= Degrees of: Diplomas in: ;
| Bachelor of Arts Engineering
Bachelor of Science Education
Bachelor of Commerce Music ;
Bachelor of Music Pharmacy ;

Master of Arts Hospi
Master of Science ¢ Mine Get
sa \ Ace remnant Courses v
onour an dvanced Courses in many depart
e eos ‘ yr coher about $210.00 a vedere
1 the B. A. Course average ;
5 Many valuable scholarships, on entrance ieee rad
re Scholarships awarded on the result of examinati ick i
ebruary in any Maritime school. Special $606.00 Keholatatine ¢ a
Our courses in Classics, Mathematics, Modern Languages aud cau
5 y.

The Professional Faculties

Law, Medicine, Dentistry,
oe et aoe ee

Inclusive Fees

enjoy an unexcelled reputation,
men ican ae ae

‘a ; Residences
omen students live in Shirreff H
all —~ o
Residences in the Dominion. Residence is a
in the University Men’s Residence, 0
of two affiliated institutions or in
£ tw s selected and ¢ r
Special arrangements are being made to edenwiitsdste ; a d
single ex-service students. er

all students are available at the University.

For full information write to THE REGISTRAR

finest Women’s
provided for first year men
ther men students live in either

Meals for

 

   
   

 
  

 

be spurre hea — Dalhousie’s ever
grow ing collection of musical tale
ent, Under the ‘revised constitution ‘of the Glee Club all orchestras and bands have become an
im 2g

  

 

ar a  3te obtain | closer co-ordination | and
By to present” even more “stellar: entainment than. last’ year.
| The’ concert orchestra’ under
ey “the able direction of Frank Pad7. | tore,) plans considerable expan; sion, both in its number of play* ers and its field of endeavours.
Among the. orchestras many unkings will be concerts simiae ler to those presented last year,
. musical accompaniment. at Glee
Club plays and as the cumulation
of the year’s activities they will
4) Present a Gilbert and Sullivan
. yy operetta. |
& By All students will have by now
heard the brass band at the footgames and will appreciate the
great improvement that they
make in the college spirit. The
band which is led by Ernie Heighton has approximately twenty
members, many of whom are also
playing in one of the other orchestras.

Don Warner and his Collegians
will again be the men who provide that mellow music which we
all jived to last year. At present
the dance band is undergoing the
process of reorganization and
enlargement. Many new features
such as lead clarinet, french horn
and novelty numbers are being
tried out. 
A good number of last year’s

“. key men including Don Lough,
Frank Padmore, Ernie Heighton
and John Dodge, are back and

CLASS OF. ’50
ORGANIZED TO
BEGIN CAREERS

At a meeting held in the chemistry theatre at 12 o’clock last
Thursday, the following slate of
officers was elected for the class
of ’50:

Hon. Pres.—Dr. Bell
. President—James Cruikshank
* Vice-Pres—Jocelyn Rogers

    

 

 

hi
*
‘fh
he
be
a
+
;

 

—
(+7

e “ae an . iz ee,

Mh Sec.-Treas.— Carol Wood

i. The meeting was under the
ae capable supervision of sophomore
of president, Bob Watson. |

¥ The election was followed by
4 a brief address by physical direc
tor, John McCormack, who outf lined the university system of
* a physical training, explaining that
it is compulsory for all freshmen
to take two hours per week with
the execption of (a) veterans (b)
those with medical certificates of
exemption (c) those having taken
a similar course in other colleges
(d) those taking part in interfaculty or varsity sports.
Mr. McCormack is very much
in favor of competitive games
rather than straight calisthenics,
not only from a physical culture
point of view but also because
_ they foster a more fraternal spirit
among students. For this reason,
. _ badminton will be highlighted
er Sy this year by the physical depart2 A) _ Ment, and all freshmen taking
= part in the regular Monday evening schedule will be exempt from
the ordinary P.T. course. Mr. McCormack anticipates a good seag son in basketball, volleyball, bada minton, and swimming. The latter if Stad pool is available. 
’ Unfortunately, a large number
of the freshman class were not
present due to a student-veteran
. association meeting taking place

in the gym at approximately the
same hour, ip ah pee

 

 

. raring to go. The boys feel that

a part of the D. G.D.S. With

the new arrangement it is hoped Wee tee jateninenta’ "The

for musicians is still great and

with all the talent that has shown
up for the practices they will be

able to mould three really good
| bands. One source of encourage
€nt was the Student Council’s
generous grant for the purchase
need

all those who have can play in
struments are requested to turn

out, especially drummers who are
needed for all the bands.

Gym Store

A Campus

Landmark

“Coke, Roy! Make it two, Roy’
No one can mistake the identity
of this famous institution and its
equally celebrated proprietor.
Here in the southwest corner of
Dalhousie gymnasium, for’ the
past fifteen years, students from
this old college have gathered together in times of prosperity and
depression, peace and war, to discuss all problems, from the most
serious college romances, to the
lighter topics of examinations.

The ancestor of the present
establishment, was in the old
gymnasium. In 1930, Dr. R. A.
Mackay, Murray Rankin, and
several interested students conceived the idea of setting up an
agency which could handle textbooks for the students more
easily by dealing directly with
the publishing houses. Along with
this, the C.N.I.B. was granted a
concession, and Roy Atwood entered the portals of Dal for the
first time, unaware that within a
decade, the fame of his coffee
and jokes, would be scattered
throughout the far corners of. the
globe, by his ardent listeners of
a few years back.

The fire, which destroyed the
old gymnasium in the spring of
1931, also destroyed the stock of
the store and the store was
obliged to carry on operation in
the basement of the Arts building during .the term 1931-32. In
1932, with the erection of the
new gym, the business started on
its present location.

The store is actually two separate departments, catering and
textbooks, but operates under a
single management. Until 1944
the textbook section was managed by a student manager, appointed by the Student Council.
The argument against this was
the lack.of continuity created in
the keeping of the records and, as
a result, this position ceased to
exist in 1944. The catering department is a very busy one,
serving approximately fifty dinners per day, besides the normal
run on lunches, football dinners
and other extras which all come
in a normal college year.

The present store has outgrown
its usefulness in both departments. The management cannot
hope to obtain the best’ results
in service to the student body,
which has more than doubled
since its inception. Certainly, the
time has come, when a new location should be sought and a break
given to all interested parties.

Yes, the old gym store should
be given serious thought. Certainly, nowhere else on _ this
campus does the spirit of Dal display itself in a better manner.

Here is the place to which we

first come on entering Dal to
make friends, and upon returning
we always find ourselves once
again among friends. As a lot of

_ the old boys will vouch, Roy never
forgets a Dalhousie student.

mae | is, F Can
i Pay aA

  

“ae 1s:

:

  

;

       
       
   
 

CANADA’S

 

    
  
  
  
 
 

  

OLDEST STUDENT PUBLICATION

 

INTER - FAC
DEBATING
UNDERWAY

The year 1946-47 should prove
a big one for Sodales. The executive have already completed
arrangements for an interfaculty
debating schedule and are in the
process of finalizing intercollegiate debating plans.

An interfaculty debate will be
held every Tuesday at 7:30 p.m.
during the college year with the
exception of a short break during
the Christmas examination week
and holidays. All faculties will be
represented by one, two or three
teams with the possible exclusion
of the “Meds” whose interest in
debating seems to be of rather
a negative quality. Arts and
Science will enter three teams,
Law and Commerce two each, the
Engineers one. Any member of
the student body irtterested in
debating and who has not yet
seen the debating manager of his
faculty is asked to do so at once.

The Bennet shield, awarded
for interfactulty debating and
now held by Arts and Science, is
the trophy for which the teams
will contest. Each member of the
winning team will also receive a
pin in the form of a miniature
Bennet shield to be presented on
Munroe day.

Commerce and Law will stage
the first debate of the season on
Tuesday, October 22. The resolution “‘Resolved that it would
be in the economic interest of
Canada that Newfoundland
should federate with our Dominion’, which should provide a very
interesting subject for debate.
The second debate of the series
will be held the following week,
Tuesday, October 29. Arts and
Science vs. the Engineers will attempt to solve the old problem as
to whether “a liberal education
is more necessary to the youth of
today than a practical one.” The
Engineers are quite naturally
supporting the negative.

The intercollegiate debating
schedule has not as yet been
completed. However, the wheels
are turning and we may look for
an announcement in the near future. One point of interest is that
there will be a medal by Premier
Macdonald to the best interfaculty debater of the year.

It is hoped by the executive of
Sodales that students will take
an interest in this year’s debating
schedule and will turn out to support their faculty teams. If any
students would like to hear some
particular subject debated, “the
executive will be pleased to give
it their consideration and if possible place it on the interfaculty
debating schedule.

 

Catch Up With Canada!

There will be a meeting of all
students interested in joining a
Citizens’ Forum group on the
campus next Thursday, Oct. 24,
at 12 noon, Watch the bulletin

boards for details!

Arts, Science,

 

McKenzie
To Speak
At Forum

In duly, 1945, the electors of
Great Britain brought about a
complete revolution, ousting the
Conservative-led wartime government and raising to power’ the
socialistic labor party headed by
Clement Atlee. Since that time,
the democratic world has watched
as the Laborites swung into their
pledged program of nationalization of Britain’s basic industries,
health services, and the Bank of
England. How successful has this
program been? Has the Labor
government lost or gained prestige? Is socialism working in
Britain?

So that students may have
answers from an expert, impartial observer, the Maritime Labor
Institute and the Students’ Council will present next Tuesday
Professor Robert T. McKenzie,
general secretary of the Canadian
Citizens’ Forum, who has just returned to Canada after two years
in England. An experienced and
analytical observer and an excellent speaker, Mr. McKenzie is
well qualified to report on “Revyolution—British Style”. All students are urged to hear this firsthand descripition of a socialistic
government in the mother of parliaments.

Prof. McKenzie will speak in
the Engineers’ common room on
Tuesday, October 22. The meeting will open at 8 p.m.

 

DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS’
AFFAIRS

Will all ex-service students in
Commerce, Engineering and _  pre-Professional
courses, who have not done so,
check particulars on nominal rolls
at men’s residence, Studley—and
report omissions or inaccuracies

at once to the Veterans’ Counselling office.
Applications will be received

for one or two rooms in Cathedral
buildings for permanent residents.
Those already in residence who
intend to remain should make application at once if they have not
already done so.

=

Me

Kander

Presents
Concert

A large audience was thrilled
by the outstanding performance
of Gerhard Kander, violinist, on

Tuesday night, Oct. 15, in the
Dalhousie gymnasium. The concert was the first of this season’s
Halifax Ladies’ Musical Club
series, which was opened by an
address from the club president,
Mrs. Wilson. Dr. A. E. Kerr added
his greetings to those of Mrs. Wilson, welcoming the public to the
gymnasium, now being used to accommodate the  association’s
greatly increased number of members and their guests,

Mr. Kander opened his programme with the Concerto in A
Major, by Mozart. This was fol
(Continued on page 8)

 

any Sig: A Elen ese
3 3 ae eS
S $5 ber ene
he : a hee ee
Sirs 5 eee
2 § ee
ns 0 = ee
~ & eS A
as : Shalit
a te
g pane
G2 ae
© : BT we)
30 oe ehh Ne
Ohta: ane
g eo ae
2 oR ee
fet = x | eS
5 : i ee
e& ae
OO 2 5 Lae
yg
ae
a >
ee
3
= =
he
p> &
a
oo eed
« & .
© =
+ °® °
SI) e
« :
‘ oe & :
he
& & ‘
3 ws :
2. 23 :.
so
ix} =>
= wy | =
Ong
~ “S :
as 5
ad 24S
"~ * :
i
REE et
WM 2ts 4
mi oe <
206. si
Beater he cot ce
3c Ss
3 “ bb yg
~ oO %.
ee egy ae
=s3s ¢ £ QQ
q - 2 eM he
 

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE Friday, Oct. 18, 1946

       
  
    
 

  

 

 

    
  
  

BY DON HARRIS

Many friends in Halifax and throughout the province
will learn with deep regret of the defeats (4) of the Dal.
Tigers and Cubs, who (literally) passed away on Saturday

nt and Monday afternoons, at their home in Studley field, where

they have resided for many years, following a long illness of
nearly ten days.

The Tigers and Cubs were football teams by trade, and
were well known to a larg number of friends and sports acquaintances. Of a quiet and retiring nature, they nevertheless
took an active part in university athletics.

They are survived by one university, of Halifax; 1700
students, of the Maritimes and sundry other places; one coach,
of Glace Bay; one manager, of Halifax; and one physical
director of New Glasgow. They also leave the members of the
D.A.A.C. executive.

The remains will arrive at Raymond Field, in Wolfville,
on Saturday, for committal service and interment. Reverend
Acadia Axemen hope to conduct the service with the funerals
taking place at 2 and 3 p.m.

Many of you will wonder at this sudden frantic outburst
in the Gazette, due to the defeats suffered by Dal. teams over
the week-end, as Dal. teams have been trimmed before. It
is true that they have been trimmed before, but never, to my
knowledge, under such unusual circumstances. Here are the
facts on the four losses, with special references to Monday’s
debacle.

 
   
    
 
   
   
 
    
 

Introducing Ken Chisholm, the

basketball coach of our senior
and intermediate hoopsters. Ken
is a Talifax product and one of
the finest players in the Dominion.

He began his basketball career
playing for the old Morris street
high school and the Halifax
Academy. In his best years he
played with Halifax Y.M.C.A. and
with the Wanderers. He played
with the latter team when it won
tne Dominion finals.

Throughout his playing career,
Ken always held down the position of forward. In more recent
years he has turned to coaching.

Dalhousie Tigers lost their third game in a row on Monday, at the

Recreation Centre, as Navy trimmed the Gold and Black by a score

of 12-3.

Some variety was provided in this Tiger loss as the Varsity

squad discovered some new weaknesses which hitherto had gone ‘un
noticed in their playing.

For a change, the Dal scrum had a decided

edge over the opposition in heeling the ball out, but this marked the

only improvement over their previous showings.

Navy fielded a smart,

fast-breaking team which took advantage

of every lapse on the part of the Dal players and exhibited some beautiful brokenfield Panning: plus outstanding kicking by Gillis.

 

DAL’S NEW FOOTBALL COACH

“oe
.

 

Presenting Mel Shepperd, Dal’s
new football coach. Mel’s a “Bay”

boy, born back in 1905, which
makes him, er... 41 years old, I
think.

Dalhousie forced the play from
the opening whistle, as the scrum
heeled well. A bad pass by the Dal
backs was intercepted by Wildsmith of the Navy, who ran 25
yards for a score. Gillis made a
good kick for the extra 2 points
and Navy led 5-0 at the 5-minute
mark. Again Dal put on the pressure, but hard, accurate tackling
by the Navy kept the Tigers at
bay. After 20 minutes of play the
tide turned as Navy pushed the
Gold and Black deep into Dal territory and culminated their drive
with Smith going over on a pass
from Wildsmith. Gillis . again
kicked for 2 points, bringing the
score to 10-0 for Navy at the 25
minute mark. A few minutes later
Dal came to life, for the only time
in the game, scoring on a smart
line run, McDonald carrying the
ball over on passes from Beer,
Farquhar, MacKeigan and Mac.
Kenzie,

SECOND HALF

The second half was almost a
repetition of the first half, although the Navy scrum heeled the
ball back to their line more often.

i
| | Saturday, Dal. intermediates were placed in the _ loss i Ae ata Ate gS ae eee si gained - Sayer ere Pay : " ) :
fe brackets, by a smooth Acadia machine. As Dal. students are cee ga asnind’ Woniseat item ne whe a ete ver of outstanding ore Pe W ildsmith, Navy
i N well behind ihe intermediates, few of them witnessed this ie Manica ates) tek tee Pac one most notable being the made many long gains, as the
Oy spectacle and the few that did see it, found themselves tongue- a * ‘ amous C aledonia team, which small Navy backs ducked under
; tied, while their cheerleaders informed the Gazette that they vse Ra ENA : won the Eastern Canadian cham- the high tackles of the Tigers.
eg) didn’t have the stamina to lead cheers for two games. Enough Meer Pa ti See Me Heh ; me ne oo p Beer play of a half was
at said! From the playing angle, the Cubs tried hard but their onle bo Seek ia It is difficult a es sacar ae ag ae Re Se ae eee poteny.
Pa tackling was poor and the scrum couldn’t seem to push while oy custo a Abadiet Ba 4 i aK or zi Bey ° ren ack for Kick oe a difficult angle, which
[ae their opponents proved to be a team of opportunists. by ; ee ‘his team for ten years. hit the goal-posts and went over
ae store. Nevertheless, Ken has said Mel’s long association with the for the final score of the game,

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

_tried hard. You figure out the rest.—R. I. P.

Dal. Tigers were completely outplayed in the senior tilt
against Acadia, as the Axemen’s strategy of using a sevenman scrum paid dividends, with the Acadia scrum controlling
the ball throughout most of the game, until finally, with about
five minutes left to play, Dal. also used a seven-man scrum, and

that he has some excellent material to work with. He is pleased
wit hthe turnout but feels that
there is still some hidden basketball talent around the campus.

 

game as a first rate player makes
up for the small amount of actual
coaching experience he has had.

Expressing his opinion of the

Navy leading Dal 12-3.

The Dal team seemed to lack
fight throughout the game, and
actually was more of a group of

got the ball the odd time. Dal. tackling was good during the team, Mel says he has never 00d individual players than 9
first half, stopping the Acadia attack, but the Dal. line got worked with a finer or more team, with some good backs wast? f spirited bunch of lads. He feels ing their talents as the line played

little chance to run the ball. Aso, when they did get the ball,
the players seemed to forget that they had a line, and made
nice individual gains, but actually got nowhere as there was
little chance for their teammates to follow up the play.

FLASH !!
FLASH !!

sure that the team is improving
quickly and believes that he will
have a crack team as the season

much too close to the scrum and
were bunched up on every play,
making easy targets for the Navy
tacklers.

: progresses.
, j Rie CAT ASTRO HS Dalhousie made a clean sweep We, as Dalhousie students, wish Dal line-up—Beer,  B. Grant,
On Monday, disaster struck the Dal. sports world, as Navy ; 3
a Ki ee tatu Pendle aofanting the. Tigers of the Intercollegiate Tennis OUR new coach and OUR team Farquhar, Bob McDonald, Pomr ree? Bera eter ee & . Tournament, winning all events, many successes and the best of thier, D. MacDonald, Primrose,

and Cubs. With first things first, we come to the Navyy-Dal.
contest. It all began when—half of the team didn’t even know
when or where they were playing, and the team went on the
field minus two regulars. By the grace of God, and a slight bit
of luck, three other members of the team were notified at noon
hour that they were expected to play at 2 p.m.

Getting a team out was bad enough, but the showing they

made on the field finished things. Granted that they were up.

against a good team, and that it is a lot easier to write than
to play, but I find it hard to understand why the Dal) line

failed to click, as they had possession of the ball much more

often than did the Navy line, due to the effectiveness of the
Dal. scrum, But, once again, there were too many individual
runs; the line seemed to play too close to the scrum; they were
bunched up instead of stretched out across the field; they
always played the weak side of their own line; there were too
many ‘quarterback sneaks’.

The biggest mess of all followed. ‘I went from the id
creation Centre to Studley to watch and cover the intermediate game. J found that no one knew for sure, whether
the intermediates could field a full team, and no one seemed
to care. I was one of about a half dozezn members of Dal.
University to see the game, and that included O’Brien and the
Gazette photographer plus. The only Dal cheers I could hear
were echoes from the distant past. Among the missing were
the following: the Dal. coach; the football manager (until the
last few minutes of the last half); the assistant-manager; all
members of the D.A.A.C. executive; the physical director; the
Dal, student body, The Cubs were beaten 28-0 although they

for those interested

 
   

in turning

Boxing Practices
Begin This Week

oe: Under the direction of Jack
Pa. MeKenna, newly appointed boxing coach, practices will be held

 

out for boxing at Dal., commencing immediately. An organization
meeting was held in the lower gym
last Wednesday night and it was
decided to post practice hours on
the gym bulletin board and in the
next issue of the Gazette.

scoring 21 points out of a maximum of 21 points.

 

luck for the remainder of the football season.

MacKenzie, MacKeigan, McQuinn,
Epstein, Morgan, Bell, Morrison.

 

King's, Acadia Whip

Dal Intermediates

Dal. - Acadia’

Amid strangle holds, armlocks and half-nelsons, which any
wrestling fan would enjoy, Dal
Cubs lost to Acadia by a score of
6-0. Acadia, with a heavier scrum,
were more efficient in heeling the
ball out than were the Cubs, who
were pretty Well disorganized by
the wheeling tactics of the Axemen. As a result, Acadia had a
big edge in the play throughout
the first half, which was featured b yDal’s high tackling. The
second half saw Acadia continue
to force the play and also take
over the high tackling department.

Acadia forced the play from
the start of the game and, at the
fewenty-minute mark, Morrison
went over for 3 points, but he
missed the kick for extra points.
The half ended with Acadia

the play at times, on
ocassions pushing the play to the
Axemen’s
expert kicking of Acadia ffull
tack

a 6-0 margin.
a

leading the Cubs 3-0.

In the second half Dal forced
several
The

five-yard line.

back Crowell rendered this atineffective. Then Morrison
made a beautiful 30 yard run,

and before being tackled, passed
the ball to Crowell who relayed

it to MeFarlen for a- score.
Crowell missed the corner kick

for extra points and the game

ended with Acadia the victors by

ok

Dal. Kiligs

King’s Intermediates threw a
scare into the City Intermediate
League Monday, as they overwhelmed the Dalhousie Cubs 280. at Studley Field. With strong
support from the bleachers, the

ttl .*

Kings team made it apparent at
once that they completely outclassed their opponents.

Paul Howard, who climbed out
of a sickbed before the game,
drew first blood when he booted
a penalty-kick over the bar for
two points. By half time the
score had risen to 12-0 on two
trys by Bill “Mf. Touchdown”
Morrow, and two converts by
Howard,

In the second half King’s picked up where they had left off.
Howard, after a faultless display
of broken field Tunning, touched
make the score 15-0. King’s continued to press, and nearly scoreed four times within as many
minutes, but Dal held on and relieved the pressure with a pen
alty kick to touch. It was a rec
spite that did not last long, how.
ever, and before the end of the
game both MacKillop and Morrow

(Continued on Page 8)

 
au ra
Mt Rae ae

a
vn t } pi '
re “ Rey i

   
  
  
   
      
  
   
      
   
   
 

BR aS

ih

 

D.G.A.C.

Something new has been add
column, an addition to the Gazette planned to let you in on the
latest news around the gym—
gossip and otherwise. This year
with the new 8 page Gazette,
there’ll be plenty of space for
girls’ sports, and having had
some experience in the past with
shortage of space, we’re going to
take advantage of it, but def.

Our first general meeting was
held Tuesday, the 8th, for the
purpose of electing a Secretary
Treasurer, a ground hockey manager, and class managers. Dot
Muir was elected Sect’y Treas.,
Pam Stevens ground hockey
‘manager, and class officers as
follows: Freshettes — Jocelyn
Rogers, Sophomores — Frannie
Doane, Juniors—Verna Leonard,
Senors — Irene Robinson.

There have already been six
ground hockey practices, with
enough for two teams tufrning
out each time. Don’t forget the
match with Edghill on the 26th
at Studley. If all goes well, it
will be held from 2-3, just before the football game. We
want to see a godd crowd on the

 

e. bleachers for that first game, the
+ Be team plays a much better game
if they know you're behind

a
bit

i

_ them.
et - The sport that looks as though
Bait will go places this year. is
basketball. The Freshette class
- has brought in a fine crop of
players, among them being the
| ex- Q. E. H. S. players Jocelyn‘
h Rogers, Pat Snuggs, Priscilla
Raymond, Libu Doull and Marg.
; Thomas, the St. John trio Betty
8 Petrie, Renate Fisher and Noelle
ee and Edgehill’s Nancy

»

le

t
ay

4 1

_ Jones. How about some more
turning out to give them some
mpetition?
neo

Laat b ae

ah r } ;

me ’

: Pea ALP tae

f i

Meri ph cio. a

4 et J a. ae
: i

      

a Peat WB ie Pee rd eA
es: hee i ore We fii

AN i a ;
r ru 4 ‘fh is
Ce ee!
Wi F i, ? ty

ed—in the form of a D. G. A. C.,

 
 
  
   
 

ip

‘THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

.

 

Superior Acadia Scrum
Overwhelms Dal Team

Acadia Axemen had too much power for the Dal. Tigers Saturday afternoon, as they overcame the home team 11-3. The visitors were

smoother in their passing, superior in the scrum, and headier in the
backfield, and it would have been a miscarriage of justice had they not

won.

Acadia enjoyed an overwhelming territorial margin and only

brilliant defensive work by the Tigers kept the score down.

Acadia pressed from the opening whistle but brilliant tackling
and superb covering up kept the
visitors from scoring. It became
apparent at once that the extraman Acadia scrum was far superior to Dal’s., and the Tiger
backfield didn’t see much of the
ball. With about ten minutes left
in the half Farquhar, who was
always quick to seize opportunities, snagge da loose ball and sped

 

Interfac

Football

FOOTBALL SCORES
Oct. 10—Arts & Science 3-Com. 3
Oct. 12—Arts & Science 9-Frosh 3
Oct. 15—Engineers 9-Arts & S. 0

- ENGINEERS TRIM ARTS & Sc.

On Tuesday, Dal’s Engineers
rode roughshod over a lighter
Arts and Science squad, defeating
them 9-0 in a scheduled match of
the interfaculty football league.

Weakness in the scrum told a

' great deal of the story as the Arts’

and Sc. were not match for the
heavier scrum of the Engineers,
which retained possession of the
ball throughout the game. From
the opening whistle, the Engineer’,
were in full control as Bob. Wade
ran the ball to the Arts & Science

_5-yard line, From the scrum, Be
zanson picked up a loose ball and
carried it into the corner for an
easy try. Powers missed the kick
from a difficult angle.

The ‘boilermakers’ continued to
press hard and before the end of
the half Lamont added another
try, giving them a 6-0 lead.

Outstanding for the Engineers

' were Wade, Smith and Menchions

while Morrison, O’Neill and Nichols were the pick of the Arts and

_ Science squad.

over the line to put Dal in front
3-0. MacDonald missed the convert from a difficult angle. For
the remainder of the half Acadia
threatened continuously, but
showing great heart, the Tigers
held them off.

In the second half the play
continued in the harrassed Tigers
end, and Dal had to touch for
safety twice in a matter of minutes. Accurate tackling and one
fine run by the three-quarter line
relieved the pressure somewhat,
but not for long. For fifteen long
minutes the Tigers held on _ to
their slender lead, and then the
inevitable happened. Craig went
over from a 5-yard scrum for a
try. The convet was unsuccessful.
But the Tigers fought right back.
Farquhar and MacKenzie carried
the ball back down the field and
almost seored. But the Axeman
machine was now in high gear.
Kinsman made a beautiful run
down the side of the field to put
Acadia in front 6-3. Again Dal
bounced back, and forced the
Axemen to touch for safety. But
Acadia won a kicking duel and
ended up on the Dal _ five-yard
line. Turner went over for a try
and MacVicar converted.

The Tigers were outplayed by
the Axemen, but not outfought.
The team showed excellent spirit

and wre a credit to Dal and eoach:

Shepperd. On the other hand, the
well-filled bleachers seemed to be
populated by a collection of deafmutes. What cheers were started
by cheer-leader Boudreau and
company died almost at once, and
eventually the vociferous Med had
to give up.

Dalhousie—McQuinn, Epstein,
Morgan, Morrisson, Bell, MacKeigan, MacKenzie, D. MacDonald, Pothier, Primrose, Farquhar,

_ MacDonald, Beer.

-over the

  

Campus Roundup

by Windy O’Neill

It’s happened again! A highly
rated and over-confident U. OF
TORONTO football team was defeated 20 to 7 coach Johnny
Metras’ WESTERN boys. The
numerous .athletic successes enjoyed by Western in late years
owed to a broad-minded board of
governors and an alumni that
digs down deep to bring in
athletic stars from other universities, in Canada and across the
line. Western is thus becoming
one of the most widely known
Canadian Colleges.

* * 4 *

The TORONTO MAPLE LEAF
hockey organization was struck a
blow when two former ..ST.
MICHAEL’S COLLEGE - stars}
TED McLEAN and JOHN McCORMACK, decided to give up
hockey to enter the priesthood.
They were both Leaf property.
McCormack raised eyebrows in
his first professional year, when
he led last year’s Tulsa Oilers to
the U. S. H. L. finals. Little
Teddy McLean was the mainstay
of the 1946 Dominion junior
champs. Manager SMYTHE
seems to be optimistic but our
guess is that this years edition of
the Leafs will make an auspicious
start and taper -off out of the
playoffs for the second successive year.

* 4 * *

It is rumored in west coast
sports circles, that the U. OF
BRITISH COLUMBIA is planning the first Canadian “BOWL”
game, to be held on New Year’s
Day of either this year or next
year. If expenses can be satisfied, a leading eastern Canadian
University team will oppose the
THUNDERBIRDS:

* * # #

ACADIA has been left $5,000.
by the late J. F. Lessel for the

purpose of putting an artifical
ice plant into their rink. It was
thought, at first, that the ice

would be ready for this coming
hockey season but due to the
shortage of essential materials, it
probably wont be installed until
next summer.

* + * %

The injury riddled McGILL
footballers came up with a surprise 18-12 victory over the highly rated QUEENS musclemen.
Before the game, the moans that
emanated from the Montreal
campus could be heard, on a clear
day, right here in Halifax. It
was reported that even the water
boy had a nervous | breakdown
shortage of pails. It
might have been strategy, boys,
that trick has worked many times
before.

FLASH !!

U. N. B. copped the Invitation
Collegiate Track Meet Dal
yesterday, with St. F. X. a close

 

at

second, Dal spurted to come in

third.

PAGE 5

 

APPLICANTS

Due to the lack of apphcations
for the managerial posts offered
by the D.A.A.C. the final date for
applications has been set back un:
til Saturday} Oct. 19. For further
information. contact Burnie
Creighton or O’Brien in the gym,

 

Dine at

The

Green Lantera
The Sign of a Gecd
Meal.

 

Oxford Theatre

Fri., Sat.:

“WHISTLE STOP” George
Raft, Ava Gardner
“COL. EFFINGHAM’S RAID”
Joan Bennett, Chas. Colburne

Mon., Tues.:

“HER HIGHNESS AND THE

BELLBOY” — Hedy Lamaré,

Robert Walker, June Allyson

Wed., Thurs.:

“ABBOTT and COSTELLO in
HOLLYWOOD”

wake Better
oer

  
   

 

 

 

 

FAVORITES

YOU'LL PASS ALL
YOUR TESTS
WITH HONOURS?

ae
IRADO

WRITING PENCIL

ERITHIN

COLORED PENCIL

TURQUOISE

    
   
     
 
  
 
 

  

DRAWING PENCIL

/B0v Att 3

FROM YOUR,

    
 

ates

' z » ’ .
; > ; a 7 1 ’ fa
LG 4 ; i . & as “ae ; . 4
4 4 ty ¥ ,
— A a { i> - 4 ‘ , '
; Cy ere ea } j 1 tae Ae od
a” +f Bi, a) £ ‘ ‘ , . E
it Pan aes Fry a ris mt - é . at . ; all
. , “4 ra 4 q .¥ . = /
“ + Pat f 7 7 ms
i= ~ i . ad - "
¥; ; s s ls
‘ j e «
' é }
. . Je
a5
: ef
aioe ‘ ° - a : . s a * : ’
‘ . : \ :
'
; . : ise
| , ;
i> gp
‘
ee
;
4 .
; |
. ‘

 
tis

  

E HISTORY of HALIBURTON OUR UPRIGHT SELVES ae

 

        
 
   

ae
Bae:

pte

2
m , wo =
et. eRe

 

  

mae
at

aacmeney

 

me He ay

Ri Uae: may interest readers of this page to know that within a few
hundred yards of the Gazette office, the oldest literary society of

: * Tendais is functioning with a briskness that denies ité age. In a coun‘ try where antiquity is reverenced that has managed to attract nine

 

and sixty members and hold six hundred and fourty-four

D ie eta is a fairly hoary institution, since these figures prove that
some time must have passed if so many ordinary Canadians attended

‘such an impressive number of ‘literary’ meetings.

It has taken

sixty-two years to make up these impressive totals; “The Haliburton”
(the official title of the ancient club in question) was founded in

es - Windsor, Nova Scotia, in 1884.
At its inception, the Haliburton

Bt l was planned as a combined col
lege literary society and a fairly,
pious memorial to the memory of
Thomas Chandler Haliburton, at
that time the most #mpressive
figure in the world of letters who
had any connection with the university of King’s College. Since
1884 the Haliburton has enlarged
its scope and activities, until now
4t is concerned with the encouragement of Canadian writing in
any form or style, and by its constitution, committed to the col
lection of literary Canaditma.
Although there is a close connection between the Haliburton
and King’s College, since its
meetings are held in the King’s
buildings, and there are a large
number of King’s professors,
alumni, and students on the Haliburton rolls, membership is open
to all residents of Halifax and
vicinity, the only condition being
that applicants give the executive
sufficient proof of being male.
Haliburton meetings are strictly
stag, which is probably one reagon for the club’s longevity. Members have the right to give papers
before the club, in any department of literature that they
please, and in addition are encouraged to amplify, clarify. or
~ defy the efforts of other members in this direction. Members of
the Haliburton also have access to
an excellent collection of rare
pooks and pamphlets of considerable importance in Canadian liter.
ary history which has been accumulating through the years by
the efforts of generous members.
This collection is at present under the care of the librarian of
King’s College. |

Since 1895, the Haliburton has
conferred fellowships upon — distinguished Canadian literary men;
the first of these fellows being
Sir Gharles G. D. Roberts and the
last, appointed only last year,
Thomas Raddall. Among the other men who have received this
recognition are the late Dr. Harry
Piers, curator of the Nova Scotia
Provincial Museum, the late Archdeacon F. G. Scott, and Dr, Willjam Inglis Morse.

The meetings of Haliburton are
characterized by an informality
that is likely to shock newcomers.
The topics of the paper, the com' ments of the audience at the end
of the papers, and the discussions

A WORD OF
Welcome

Birks extend to newcomers and returning men a
cordial welcome to _ bring
their gift problems to Birks

Come and visit . . . even
if you have no problems.

Henry Birks & Sons
I * tted
Registered Jeweller,
American Gem Society

ee i

SS
that arise as a result, provide a
form of entertainment that cannot be equalled by any other local
organization. And because the
Haliburton is interested in antiquarian research, many of the
papers given by persons with a
private source of information
throw a light on odd and interesting facets of local history. The
musicians among its members provide the club with their special
contribution to its chéer, and even
those whose literary and artistic
talents are limited to after dinner
speaking, are given their chance
to shine when the various toasts
are given and answered during
the supper. Yes, meetings of the
Haliburton provide food for the
body as well as the soul, which is
a rare feat among literary societies. On the whole, the members and friends of the Haliburton
are of tle opinion that their club
is a wonderful and particularly
rare literary society.
—Howard Greer

    

no

:
i.

“ F ae im! bys

ae to lee tr one lake bnew met ae a ed

 

  
 

Tee fy
f J

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

(Continued from last week)

Germany has never been selfsupporting in food, and the war
had drastically reduced the normal output. Besides this, ‘the
deportees were being moved from
a normally food-surplus area into
the Western region, which was
already on the verge of famine.
On top of these discouraging factors, Germany was, as the Economist puts it, “at the end of the
world food queue”; Mr. Churchill
however, told the commons that
he saw no cause for alarm in the
prospects of the deportation. As
the Economist says, the Potsdam
powers could hardly have failed
to foresee what followed, and one
must assume that they willed it.

What followed was inevitable.
Many died in transit. Their removal “was, in the main, carried out with extreme brutality
and an utter lack of internal organization.”’ The arrival of the
remainder definitely brought on

the inevitable famine. Sir Jack
Drummond, scientific adviser to
the ministry of food, described

the rations as being at starvation
level. The Russians sent no food
te the Western zone,
tood-surplus areas which they occupy.

Under international law it is
the duty of the occupying power
to feed the inhabitants of the occupied zone, a duty on which the

SS ee

‘Nova Scotia ...

Viewed With Alarm

When a minister of the provincial government states that six

provinces are in a bad way, and one is ‘desperate’,
Perhaps he was referring to the late baseball

Ah, unfortunately he was talking about our provincial

furiously to think’’!
shambles?

economy.

“it gives one

Are we desperate? Is Nova Scotia faced with gradual depopulation, snowballing liabilities and deteriorating resources?

Nova Scotia is indeed suffering from depopulation.

During the

last half century there has been a steady movement of young people
from the Maritime area to the continent. As a result, the unproductive
percentage of the population, the very young and the very old, has

increased alarmingly.

The remaining taxpayers are thus threatened

with an ever-increasing tax burden they cannot hope to carry, or even

attempt to raise.

Taxes have been further increased to assist those

who have suffered from the monotonous decline of our producing

power.

Coal mines are a case in point.
Once a producer of superior coal,
Nova Scotia is now miming~a product of such poor quality that its
sale is possible only through subsidies. Merely to maintain employment, the government is
running one Cape Breton mine at
an annual deficit of approximately $90,000.

Again in point, are our 40,000
aeres of marshlands, which are,
without doubt, the richest, and,
potentially, the most productive
soils in the province. Through the
neglect of dykes, the lack of coneerted effort, through insufficient

TODAY-RRIDAY-SATURDAY
ALAN LADD

Geraldine Fitzgerald

“Cy. S. S.”’

Next MON-TUES.-WED.
DENNIS MORGAN

JACK CARSON
“TWO GUYS
FROM MILWAUKEE

 

capital for dyking and incomplete
statutory provisions, this fertile
field of wealth has been “sown
with tares’’. Nor has there been
any wholehearted attempt to develop the unexploited marshes.

Respecting other material resources, the situation is stern, but:
the future less grim. Uncontrolled
overcutting has depleted our
forests, so that few good stands
of timber are left. But the provincial government has made pro.
vision for a scheme of control and
reforestration and has put it into
effect. Moreover, cutting on
crown lands is to be under stricter
discipline.

In the fisheries, some measure
of federal control is probable.
Meanwhile, the local government
is encouraging the use of draggers, which, if seems, are not as
harmful as trawlers.

This note of cheer turns sour
when we view the field of labor
resources. Enthusiasm for vocational education is widespread.
The splendid efforts pending in
that sphere will, however, encounter huge obstacles in the lack
of. competent ‘instructors, and in
the dearth of industry wherein
such skills are practised.

Industrial decline has, of
course, other causes besides lack
of initiative and the drainage of
craftsmen. The most damaging

(Continued on page 8)

 

from the.

 

   

British government used to insist
during the war when proposals
were made to relieve Axis-occupied countries. The British attitude might (or might not) be
summed up in a statement made
by Mr. Hebert Morrison, when
he said: “We do not love the Germans, but their coal... ”

The Economist lays the blame
where it belongs—on the shoulders of our upright selves. One
eannot excuse it as payment in
kind, because we have always
considered ourselves to be morally superior to Nazi bestiality. If
one were to attempt to excuse it
as such, the punishment has been
unevenly divided; war criminals
at least had prison rations and
clothing, but many women and
children died of undernourishment and exposure during their
transportation.

In the earlier part of the article
the Economist considers the moral implications of our policy. Our
Threatened Values, a book written by Mr. Victor Gollancz, is
mentioned as having laid down
the fact that Western civilization
has “gradually evolved a certain
moral code, a system of values
centred on respect for human
personality.” Practice has not always conformed te them, but
their denial was rare. The author
infers from what he calls the
“slavers” attitude of the Britfsh
that these morals are being lost.
Who, during the war were so upright and moral as Great Britain
and the United States? The fact

remains, however, that the gov
Sur L’Enfer

A slight way back, when men
were men,

And trains were running well,

A chap named Dante edited

A tourist guide to Hell;

Described the nine select hotels

Intending to entice

More tourists to this lovely spot

Rather than Paradise.

Just where he ended up himself

Is no affair of mine.

Although I feel inclined to bet

On hotel number nine.

 

Milton, however, disagreed,

(As taught in English 2)

Because he liked being different

And thought his blood was blue.

This may explain the attitude

Which he in places takes

That Hell was quite a. nasty
place

And full of horrid snakes.

He died one day in his old age

While justifying God,

And now he’s probably lying
drunk

In some celestial quod.

—Anon,

CASINO

AN ODEON THEATRE

Starting Saturday
October 12th
ERNEST
HEMMINGWAY’S

“The
KILLERS”

Coming Wed. “REBECCA”

 

 
    
     

Friday, October 18, 1946

 

ernments of these two countries.
saw fit to aid in the expulsion
from their homes of thirteen
million people, sending them to
areas suffering from a shortage
of food. The principles of the
Atlantie charter were abandoned
in favor of a policy, or lack of
it, compatible with Russian aims.

From these facts one might infer that the opinions of the great
majority are based on material
and selfish values rather than on
moral principles, that they concern themselves more with what
is advantageous than with what is
right. It seems likely that only
humane policies will introduce
humane considerations into international affairs. Decent treatment will probably produce decent Germans, while the existing
policies are more likely to further
embitter them. Since our common, sense seems somewhat
limited, we had better apply what
morals are left to us, if we are
to expect a truly better world.

Lord Vansittart probably spoke
for many when he criticized the
German churches for supporting
their, country’s part in the war
and its program of expansion.
Some might wonder how our
churches look on the deaths of
German mothers and children,
and our apparent abandonment
of Christian principles.

The conclusions of the Economist are worth anybody’s attention, and it certainly needs no
recommendation from me. Peace
Without Honor will be remembered until such a time as the
people of our countries are considerably more open-minded than
they are at present.

Sell Canada’s newest, fastest-selling Christmas Cards. Exclusive
with REGAL. Sell the 21]-card
feature box for $1, or REGAL’S
famous “Friendship” box of all
occasion cards. Double Sales!

Introduce REGAL’S wonder
ful new Canadian Scenes Box.

16 cards by famous Canadian
f i artists, $1.

iE Cet ES eS er ae ere

REGAL'S new Framed Gift Pictures of authentic Canadian Scenes are ideal Christmas
Gifts. Sell for $1. Learn the intriguing details.
Up to 50% clear profit. Write NOW for a rent’s
1946 Catalog. REGAL STATIONERY CO. LTD.,
105 Simcoe St. Toronto, Ont. or
163 W, Hastings St. Vancouver, B.C

RD To

ORPHEUS Theatre

Thurs,, Fri., Sat.

“ROLL ON TEXAS MOON”

“UNDERGROUND AGENT”

Mon., Tues., Wed.:

‘IT’S GREAT TO BE YOUNG’
“HEADING WEST”

EVANGELINE
TEA ROOM

Commonly known as JOE’S
280 Quinpool Road
HALIFAX, N. S.

 

Fader’s Drug Stores

135 HOLLIS STREET
29 COBURG ROAD

Nova Scotia

Halifax

 

 

Corsages

A “Colonial” Corsage designed by ROSEDALE
speaks eloquent volumes
of tenderness and love.

 

38) NUR/JERIES Limited...
| BARRINGTON /T- HALIFAX

 

 
  
 
   

-) °° ‘The inhabitants of the shack
have by this time settled down
_ for the long grind, and the draft- , tivities, highlighted by a
ing rooms are once more a scene
2: etek much activity. Some of the

 

ie
£

Lie;

i

\
:

aah f
ot

i

* :

"9

  
   
   
  
   
   
  
   
  
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
 
   
  
  
 
     
  
 
 
 
 
   
 

 

=

,

we

mt

4

ys
w
i
qi
a

‘ V aaa “more nt
4 rawing IT have caught on to the
| drift of things rather quickly and

‘Last week in Mech. II class

_ hold the organizational meeting
of the Zero Club. This very ex
 

With a large and enthusiastic
student body, King’s was the hub
of a round of pre-term social ac
ride and weiner roast. These were
held chiefly to enable the freshmen and freshettes to meet one
another and also the _— seniors.
Needless to say, the solemn rites
of initiation were not lacking in
the new students’ impressions of
King’s. However, a discussion of
the latter functions is hardly
necessary. |

High-lighting the first term social events will be the FreshieSoph dance to be held on Thursday of this week. Judging from
the plans which have been made,
the dance will get the King’s social year off to a successful start.

Meetings of the different societies were held and plans formulated for the year’s activities. A
successful year for debating, dramatics and Haliburton is assure.
Plans have already been
for the first dramatic production,
a group of one act plays.

King’s is again regaining its
prominence in the field of sport.
A well-balanced football squad
gives every indication of victory
for the BLUE and WHITE. Interbay sports begin this week with
the opening of a softball league.

DOIT ’N STUFF

What certain “frail’’ character
on the football team has received
a personally monogrammed sweater? — Could be the slim boy in
middle bay!

jj

enterprising citizens in

are already scabbing problems.

when the results of the first test
were returned it was decided to

. elusive organizatiof&\ consisting of
engineers who got zero or less
in any test, is one of the oldest
and most respected in the university. Among this year’s charter
members are Heckman, Churchill
and Lamont.

The Engineering Society also
held its initial meeting of the
term. Committees were elected to
handle the Society banquet and
‘the Engineers ball. President Don
“The Eskimo Kid” Dunlop asked
that the meetings be attended by
all engineers in the future and
that they take an active part in
the proceedings.

SOCIAL NOTES

The “Gypsy” is in the news
again. It seems that ever since he
got lost on the Dartmouth Ferry
one night he has decided that the
Halifax girls are as good as those
en the other side of the harbor.

Dave Parsons was the main attraction at a little gathering held

last week at the North West Arm. —‘‘Horizontal”’

HOW TO HAVE FUN
AT PARTIES

1. In selecting your companion for any party, special attention
Should be given to which of the following?

 

(a) Her social upbringing?
'(b) Her character, integrity and bank account?
(c) The condition of her liquor permit?

2. While the light of your love is making with the lipstick and
you are trying to make a good impression with the family, you should:
(a) Pull a flask from your hip pocket and offer the old man
a drink.
(b) Make conversation and say how strange it is that homely
people generally have beautiful daughters.
(c) Finger the lady’s mink coat and explain what remarkable
things they are doing with muskrat these days.

3. Arriving at the scene of festivities, you will immediately estab.
lish your popularity by:

(a) Bringing in a handful of snow and dropping it down
your hostess’s back.
(b) Using ice cubs instead.
_(c) Not coming in at all.

4. Ten minutes later you decide the party is getting dull and
you should:
(a) Start a rollicking game of charades.
(b) Sing five verses of the North Atlantic Squadron.
(c) Turn out all the lights.
5. Things pick up as more people arrive,
This is the time to:
(a) Sit heavily on a stack of Count Basie records,
(b) Demonstrate your juggling act with a Ming vase, an
antique ash tray and a casual blonde.
(c) Put “Gloomy Sunday” on “the record player.
6. The hours fly by, and before you know it, it’s 10.30. You want
to leave without creating a big commotion, You should:
(a) Turn on all the lights. ’
(b)

and a few pass out.

out in the basement.

Yell in a ditto voice that if anybody wants a ride home
they should put their shoes back on and get cracking.
7 As you and your girl are driving along, the moon does pretty
things to her hair, and the radio conveniently plays Stardust. She announces that it’s getting cold, isn’t it? You should:

(¢)

(a) Turn the heater on.
(b) Take her straight home.
(c) See No. 8.

; 8. As the ear grinds to a halt inthe dead-end street leading into
_ the woods, you should:

ae: (a)
’ (bps. 5
{ (¢)

Ed, Note: At this point use your own discretion,
ae as) . The Gateway

boat

made .
_ heeds must seek greener pastures

~,
Announce in a clearly audible veice that fire has broken

‘i
=

4)

_%

MOST STUDENTS

= het Cahier er et ti TET Fee ay Cy PFEs gta hr) es
See gi wt on oe Cato *
a hag i a i 3 s Val ir 5 t . Mi
,Y ban ; k ‘

a - 5 1 x r

 

... LEAST NOISE.

(JACK LUSHER)

 

Knowsey

Greetings, ye perennial seekers
after knowledge. Once again we
bring you the dope from Dal.—
andd I don’t mean Knowsey.

“Fuzz” Foster, the latest customer of MacDougall’s Dating
Agency, beat all existing records
by getting a date for the Student
Council brawl within an hour before the dance.

Comes the revolution! <A
“Hayes-ing” for that female with
the Acadia ‘A’ at the Dal games.

Methinks the “‘Pond’’ is stagnant, Miss Bowers, or is Flynn

the by-product of the final
splash?
The situation must be very

“Grave(s)’’ when our local wolf

in “Caper’s Junction”. Zen appears “well-rocked’’ (for all ye
uninformed illiterates—please invert last word to establish her
identity.

"Twas the gatherin’ of the
clan, but F. MacClellan “‘Bobbed”
up without little Al. Came Saturday and reconciliation. Came
Sunday—Ah, but that’s another
story.

"Tis time Knowsey asked Bob
Williams what’s been hanging out
of the upstairs window of
men’s residence besides his laundry? Doesn’t the high altitude
bother F. J., Bob?

Students of Dalhousie, particularly the inhabitants of Shirreff and those habituees df the
Lord Nelson, your crimes are
about to be exposed. Too long has
the clinging ivy of the Hall supported “creepers.’”” Now comes
the time for the trimming. Too
long have the corridors of the
Lord Nelson resounded to the
raucous babble of  inebriated
voices. Shiver ye repentant sinners, for you are soon to be revealed to the public eye. Crime
does not pay—Knowsey knows.

Young Bill from King’s has
trouble sorting out his blonds. As
he said to one sister—‘“Well, so
long, I’ll see you tonite.”

 
 

the’.

This article should be of interest t

students—the ones who don’t
Those of us who were present
two weeks know only too well
campus—shadows of gloom! Bor

Outstanding, of course
efforts of our alleged foot
are prevalent and every pl
the teams, both senior an
skill and unity.

Have you ever wondered why young men go out
, libelled, and from time to

field to be banged about
There may be, of course,

forced to believe, is true of D
the apparent lack of enthusi
by a very real lack of enth
supposed, traditionally,
better efforts,

This disinterest is noticed elsewhere,
dents registered at Da] this year and 1400
themselves from the school dances and soci

This, gentle reader, is di

athletic displays,
of the student body as a whole,
In years past, Dalhousie h

but in the last few years a slow r

reached rock bottom this year,

registration of all time should be
Straps to a new high in college
hysteria we’ve heard SO much abo

Come, come, students, leave us ral]

Juvenation of college spirit, D

Are you to be a contrib
will be, unless you begin to
which are continuously taking pl
all, develop an interest in Dalh
at all student gatherings,

ace on the campus.

ousie and a 100 percent attendance
In this way,
Dalhousie be saved from oblivion!

o the majority of Dalhousie

attend social and athletic functions!
at college activities during the past.
that shadows are creeping over the
edom and ayathy reign supreme!

» in the parade of sadness are the feeble
ball teams. In practice, snap and precision
yaer gives his best, but against opposition
d intermediate, display an amazing lack of

on the football
time, maimed?

a certain desire for personal glory, but

niversity. This, one is

alhousie athletes too. Unfortunately,
asm displayed by the players is matched
usiasm on the part of the fans who are
to Support the teams and cheer them on to

too. There are 1600 stu
Sastrous to the well-being

as gained a reputation as a live school,

ot has set in which seems to have
Surely Dalhousie with its highest
able to pull itself up by its boot
spirit. Where is all this post-war,
ut?

y to the cause! Without a re
al is going to slide into Stagnation.

utor to this dire state of affairs? You
show yourself

at the various functions
Let us, one and

and only in this way, can

leet cries Ie EE a ES
CO-ED COLUMN

Congratulations, Freshettes, for
such wonderful support in the
Frosh show! Your enthusiasm and
readiness to help really put the
Show over with a bang! We know
that rehearsals are sometimes tiring and always seem to be at the
wrong time—but you’ve shown
the rest of us just how things can
be done! Thanks to you for one
of the best Frosh shows ever to
be staged at Dalhousie.

However, there is a sadder
aspect of the girls’ activities. We
must extend our sincerest sym
pathy to the Freshettes of Shirreff Hall for the trials and
tribulations of their own Hall
initiation. Believe uS—we under
stand. We went through it ourselves!

Attention—all women students!
Kaye McLean, president, has announced the first general meeting of Delta Gamma, to be held
at Shirreff Hall on Monday, October 21 at 7:00 p.m. There are
only two of these meetings during the entire college year. We

(Continued on page 8)

out... Have a Coke

 

COCA-COLA LTD.
HALIFAX

 

Coke = Coca-Cola
peak ae = ieee “Coke”
are the registered trade marks which
distinguish

the product of Coca-Cola Led,

age wht ay er eee

-*
’
su
as 5
.

as

  
    

 
  
       
       
     
     
     
       
     
     
       
    
   
    

Nef Aa iv

ninaed ‘eons Page 3)

Pi Sonata No. 1 in G Mine

 
 

sa John aetna rk,

; “violinist gave as encores,
“ice oe Be esi and

  

| ne! a
jasm a wat, Pata « after
show by Mrs. H. E. Kendall,

raise on the young artist’s

  

  

on his, impressions of the

ni niversity, ‘said that he was
) greatly impressed by our unusually re campus, and expressed
terest in ‘the games taking

  

  

 
 

hi “his Petinmanse. |

 
 

led to be presented by the HaliLadies’ Musical Club, and a
Me ¥ h high standard of musical enterare is anticipated in the

  

  

 
    

Kander, on being ques-_

| Five more concerts are sched- .

DS
CAPORAL

Caridad

 

"eva Sea

Viewed With. Mace

(Continued from Page 6)

eause has been a dire loss of

capital. |

For years, Nova Scotians have
apathetically watched while industry followed industry into
oblivion. As a consequence, many
financial institutions founded in
Nova Scotia have migrated to
more promising centres in upper
Canada.

This process, an inevitable result of monopolistic capitalism, is
exemplified by the growth of
chain stores. In unlimited competition, the small business is
crushed by the weight of big

capital. Thus, dumping has speed
ed the disappearance of local industry.

Contributing to our depressed
state are certain general factors.
Briefly,.-they are the tariff, the
pegged freight rates and the constitutional limitations on the
provinee’s control of its own
economic destiny.

We are indeed desperate, but
the situation is not hopeless. Suggested remedies will be examined
in a subsequent article.

{To be continued)

 

KILROY
WUZ HERE....

 

 

 

   

for “dress-up”

 
 
 
  

EATON’S
For Fall

Togs

Apparel for sports and general wear . . . Smart clothes

occasions . . . Choose them at EATON’S

Clothes and accessories for men and women
offered in a good variety.

Oo

pf ees
i Ns

of “ aH

| THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

- Veterans Association Holds Meeting

(Continued from Page 1)
he. felt that as long as the veterans unite into a solid organization
he was certain that there is little
that cannot be accomplished.
Prior to adjournment, a vote of
appreciation was extended to
Tommy Giles and his housing
committee for the splendid work
accomplished during the past summer.

PASSED AND
PRESENT

Another week has passed since
your last Gazette, and it has been
an eventful one indeed, beginning
with the frosh show and Student
Council dance last Friday night.
It was a grand show and Gordie
Hart had a big smile on his face
as he dreamt of all the super performances he can stage this year
with such a great influx of talent.

And would you like to know
what some of last yedr’s gang
are doing? Well, last year’s president of Delta Gamma, Connie
Archibald, is in Montreal teaching
school; ex-prexie, Jo Robertson,
of Arts and Science is teaching
at her old school, Havergal; Glamorous Bobbie White is at Mt. A
Bob Mussett and Verner Gordon
are in the brewery business and
they just love their work; Hardrock Harrigan is taking law at
U. Ni B.

“Stardust”? Warner is back with
his band and more swooners are
joining the Don Warner Club
every day. The band has new
faces, new songs and bags of pep;
and we’re certainly proud of it.
Congrats to Don for his efficient
job of organization of a band that.
will do a lot to add fun to our
dances this year.

 

TENNIS RESULTS

The results are as follows:

Men’s Singles—Moreside (Dal)
defeated Kyte (St. F.X.) 6-2, 6-2;
Grant (Mt. A.) defeated Scott
(U.N.B.) 2-6, 6-2, 9-7.

Ladies’ Singles—Yvonne Beddard (Mt. A.) defeated Shirley
Kennie (U.N.B.) 6-1, 6-1; final—
Joyce Hart (Dal) defeated Yvonne
Beddard (Mt. A) 6-2, 6-2.

Ladies’ Doubles—Final—Nancy
Jones and Joyce Hart (Dal.) defeated Barbara MacKenzie and
Marg Heartz (Mt. A.) 6-4, 6-2

Men’s Doubles— Fennel and
Dunlop (Dal) defeated Jim Gibson and John Baxter (U.N.B.)
6-2, 6-0; W. and J. Windeler
(Acadia) defeated Kyte and Ritchie (St. F.X.) 6-2, 6-4; Dunlop
and Fennel (Dal) defeated Jordan and Archibald Mt. A.) Se 1;
6-0 (semi-final).

Mixed Doubles—Nancy Jones
and Bill Moreside (Dal) defeated Shirley Kennie and Bob Bobey
(U.N.B.) 6-0, 6-0 (semi-final).

Thomas Wallace
SONS & DAUGHTERS

MRT SRT MET TR A TT,

OMe

Optometrists & Opticians

Y. M. C. A. BUILDING

Halifax, Nova Scotia

 

CCU URGES
PARTICIPATION

(Continued from Page 1)
a definite need for the intelligent
discussion of political issues in
this country today, and one of the
best places to do this is in the
university. ‘Party polities,” he
says, “are as clean or corrupt as
the men who participate; thus the

better the quality of the men, the

better and more fruitful will be
our lives.”

The C.C.U.F. welcomes all interested students to participate in
its discussions. According to Mr.
Black, the organization has no
dogmas, and welcomes any progressive influence.

This type of society should
prove to be a valuable asset to
campus and post-campus life, and
it is hoped that many students
will attend the organizational
meeting and the discussion
periods which will be held in the
future,

COUNCIL CUTS,
ARGUES, VOTES

(Continued from Page 1)

as editor of the Year Book for the
coming year, authorization of the
Council dance committee to make
arrangements for another free
Council dance before Christmas,
decision to take cheer leaders as
well as the band to Acadia, decision to hold next meeting on
Wednesday, Oct. 30.

 

 

(Continued from Page 4)

had scored with Howard again
successful on the converting.
With the whole of King’s College there to support them, the
King’s team showed a spirit that
shamed what few Dal supporters

were on hand.
* * * *

 

The Nova Scotia Technical College

Offers Engineering Courses in
Civil, Electrical, Mechanical and Mining
Twenty Free Scholarships of $75 each for Nova Scotia students

To students with Engineering Diplomas:
Modern Equipment, Instructional Staff with Individual
Experience
Write or Call for Calendar of Advice to

F. H. SEXTON,

 

 

““‘Heat Merchants Since 1835”

5. Cunard and Company, Limited

HARD COAL * SOFT COAL
FUEL OIL
OIL BURNING EQUIPMENT

COKE *

HALIFAX, N. S.

 

 

Be Suarr- Look SMART

BRYLCREEM

THE PERFECT HAIR DRESSING

@ Applied every morning; BRYLCREEM will
keep your hair looking smart and well-gr
all day long. The natural oils in BRYLCREEM
overcome dandruff and dry scalp, give the hair
a healthy, natural lustre without that greasy
appearance. All druggists sell BRYLCREEM in
ithe handy, convenient tube. Buy today. __

 
   
     
 

 

Jae

air 1
v

Friday, Oct. 18,1946

a Crowd At

(Continued from Page 1)
The talent that was displayed by
the freshmen and freshettes was
encouraging and gives promise of
excellent Glee Club productions
during the year.

While under the over-all supervision of the Glee Club executive,
the performers were all from the
freshman class. Credit is due,
however, to those who helped to
make the show a success. Gordon
Hart was in charge of the basic
planning and is responsible for
the smoothness with which the
show was run. Geoff Payzant deserves congratulations for his
work with the male chorus, and
Noel Hamilton for his excellent
direction of the large chorus.
Special mention should also be
given to Mary Lou Christie for
her able accempaniment on the
piano, to “Rocket” Paige for his
handling of the P. A. system, and
to Fairley Prouse, make-up manager.

CO-ED COLUMN

(Continued from Page 7) :
therefore expect to see present
each and every woman student
on the campus. It’s your society,
so it’s up to you to support it!
The agenda for this eens is as
follows:

1. Election of Sophomore and
Junior representatives for poe
Gamma executive.

2. Plans for the first Open
House at Shirreff Hall.

3. Discuss plans for Co-ed
Week—to be held later in the
year.

All Co-eds Please Attend!

Note to all male _ students.
From many female voices has
come the following cry: ‘You
needn’t think the other 5,726 have
asked her. Nine times out of ten
they haven’t.”

      
        
   
     
 
     
        
     
       
     
         
      
      
      
    
     
          
           
     
     
    
     
  

 

 
 
   

    
 
        
     
        
 
   
     
     
     
      
 
    
 
     
 
      
         
       
     
    
 
       
 
 
      

‘A friend of ours wants to
know if all big horses say ‘Nay’,
where do little horses come from?

President

DARTMOUTH, N. S.

oomed

  

pea aS

‘ ts :
Ta eae Uh ne
ee ee ee ea
