     
       
         
   
       
     
         
    
  

     
       
     
       
      
           
     
      
        

»

         
           
       
         
      

 

“2

IL CHALLENG!

Dalhousie’s Tennis team has no intention of letting McGill’s cla'm
to the Intercollegiate Tennis championship go unchallenged, and despite
McGill’s avowals that ‘thew cannot! play, they are going ahead with

\ their plans and endeavouring to have the match arranged. McGill

after disposing of Queens, Varsity, and Montreal, met Saskatchewan
with the understanding that they would play Dal for the Canadian

Intercollegiate Championship if they won.

No sooner had McGill

polished off the westerners than they claimed the Dominion title.

Dal had just romped to the
Maritime title and had no intention of taking this decision on the
part of McGill without a fight.
Dave Doig, prexy of the D. A.
A. C., in a series of exchanges
with McGill, was told that their
tennis club had concluded operations, that they wanted to play

_but the University wouldn’t let
' them, that it was too cold. Doig

told them that McGill’s indoor
courts would be quite acceptable,
although the Dal players had had
no experience indoors, Meanwhile
$500 was voted to take the Dal
team to Montreal.
Dalhousie now has Col. J. L.

Ralston working on the McGilf.

Board of Governors, McGill has
told Dal that they belong to a
tennis union which Dalhousie
alone among Canadian Universities does not belong to, and that

they will claim the title of that.

if they cannot have the Intercollegiate one. Father McCarthy,
president of the M. I. A. U. has
sent an official inquiry to McGill
asking for an explanation of their
high-handed action. Meanwhile
the Dal team is completing preparations to fly to Montreal Thursday, play Saturday, and return
Sunday.
The Dal team feel that they
(Continued on Page 8)

D.S.V. A. To
Take Part In

Nov 11 Parade

The Veterans Association intends to have a representative
body on the Nov. 11 parade. All
veterans intending to remain in
the city for the holiday are asked
té attend.

Association dues are $1.00,
payable only once during your
stay at Dal. Any who did not
pay last year, or who are new this
year, may pay at any of the
tables to be set up by the Finance
Committee at the October and
November pay parades. The members of the Committee will also
accept payment at any time other
than at the tables. .

Studley — R. C. Frazee and
Nat James.

Engineering Building—Gordon
Campbell.

Forrest Building — Claude
Dingwall.

The pre-Christmas feenttias will

be held in the Chemistry Theatre.

 

their own names.

~

Gazette Name

From Coin

From the Western Gazette
comes this item on nomenclature.
Newspapers like individuals, have
Herald, Mail,
Journal, Tribune, are all familiar
sights on the front page of every
thing from one—horse town
weeklies to the Hearst syndicate
publications. While the origins
of some of these are unknown,
the early origin of the title
‘GAZETTE’ is at last revealed.

Many early coins were named
after birds. In Italy a certain
small coin was called a ‘gazettea’
—magpie—and when the Renaissance Italian walked up to buy
his favorite scandal sheet from
the corner newsboy, it cost him
about one gazetta. The word,
through usage, was transferred
to the paper.

Thus, Dalhousie’s weekly has
one more ancient tradition to
live up to!

 

LATE FLASH

Dalhousie
Tennis Team

Left For

 

-McGill Thurs.

Afternoon To
Compete For
Dominion Intercollegiate

Title Monday

 

DAL. TENNIS TEAM, CONSISTING OF BILL MORESIDE,
BLAIR DUNLOP, FRED FENNEL, BERNIE CREIGHTON
AND IAN RUSTED (PLAYING
MANAGER), LEFT FOR McGILL YESTERDAY TO COMPETE FOR THE DOMINION
INTER-COLLEGIATE TENNIS
CHAMPIONSHIP.

 

Pharos Stymied;
Editor Hopeful

This week in search of a story,
your roving GAZETTE reporter
stumbled into the adjoining office

‘of PHAROS, the well-known Dal
housie year book. Here he found,
planted behind an imposing desk,
Bill Pope, recently re-appointed
Editor of Pharos. With the proverbial “nose for news’’ he scented a story. Editor Pope was deluged in the depths of despair;
things were just not going right.

The plebiscite, with Senate approval, which authorized the
charge of three dollars per student for a Pharos, had failed to
take one important point into
consideration. The ‘“new—improved” Pharos was going to cost
more than three dollars per copy.
Advertising, estimated at $1200,
would help to alleviate the situation, but the book, as planned,
was still going to cost approximately four dollars and fifteen
cents, and cash on hand appeared
to cover only about three-seventyfiv of this. Editor Pope was worried.

In departments — other than

   

 

EDITOR ....

Jos) POPE

 

financial—he was optimistically
happy, however. An _ efficient
staff had been selected from the
Council Registration cards, main(Continued on Page 8)

 

 

 

~ Currie,

A.A.C. Elects

Kerr

we

November 5th. President A. E. Kerr was elected to the post of
honorary president of the D. A. A. C. at the first of the semi-annual

meetings held this week.

meeded for the post,

Colonel Balcom and Dr. Kerr.

The office of vice-president,

President Dave Doig felt that an alumnus,
who was sincerely interested in the athletics of the University, was —
and the nominations included Murray Rankin,

left vacant due to the fact that

‘Ralph Cooley did not return to Dal this year, is to be occupied by

Lee Currie.

The nominees were Lew Bell, who had at first declined

the nomination because of the pressure of other duties, Pete Flynn,

and the winner, Lee Currie.

 

PRESIDENT ...

. DOIG

 

Conference
To Be Held At

Dalhousie

Last week’s Gazette’s “Coming
Events” column laid bare to the
student body the fact that there
would be a University Christian
Conference at the College January 28rd to 25th.

A few interested students contacted the University Christian
Committee in Toronto regarding
plans for a Christian conference
and this is the result. A committee has been formed  consisting of students, professors and
ministers representing various
faculties, residences and churches
to plan the conference. Various
ways and means are, at presefit,
being devised to give the conference publicity and attract Dalhousie students. It is planned by
the Committee that several interesting speakers will be on hand
for the conference and, with the
exception of a few details, the
program is almost complete.

Aims of Conference

The primary aim of the conference is to give students an opportunity of finding out whether or
not there is something in religion
for them. Stress will be laid on
the fact that religion is very
necessary in our present day life
even though there are many who
do not agree. This attitude is by
no means universal, for many
more are aware that religion has
much to offer.

Students will havean opportun.
ity in discussion groups and private interviews with speakers, to

‘ask questions.
Further information regarding

the conference and the speakers
will appear in subsequent articles.

EX-R.C.A.F.

Attention of interested personnel is directed’ to the announcements of Wings
Scholarship. See Notice Boards.

 

Clubs _

The question was put to the
president. by Harry Zappler as to
whether or not soccer was a
major sport at. Dal. President
Doig replied that soccer had not
been under the jurisdiction of the
D. A. A. C., and that it was up
to the meeting to decide. Lengthy
discussion followed, and no definite conclusion has been reached
as yet. Some of the members
felt that Mr. Harris, last year’s
president, was unauthorized in
presenting the soccer team with
felt D’s, and in making the sport
a minor one. It was moved that
the Executive take under consideration the soccer, tennis, and
swimming teams, and bring a
recommendation to the next
meting as to the status of these
sports. A second motion was
made and passed that the actions
of the committee of last year be
looked into and some
ruling be introduced at the next
meeting.

The meeting was adjourned on
this note, and a resolution will be
brought in at the next meeting
as to the standing of these three
sports.

M.I.D.L. Meet
Schedules ’46
47 Debates

The Maritime Intercollegiate
Debating League held its annual
meeting at St. Mary’s College on
Nov. 4th and 5th, when sixteen
members of the various Maritime:
universities met to discuss business of the past and present years.

It was decided that.monthly re=
ports from each society would be
forwarded to the M.J.D.L. secretary, thence the data would be
tabulated and re-circulated to the
different groups. The following
amendment to the constitution
was also passed: a student of Dal-—
housie, living at Pine Hill or in
King’s residence, may debate for
either of the two societies, providing his allegiance is to the one
society throughout the coming
year,

A new scoring system for inter
collegiate debating was also car-
ried as follows:

Material and Argument ...50 pts..
DGGE oo oissiin ssc dks: 25 pts.
PPORCRG Pi, See 25..pts..

During the 46-47 college yearDal will have two debates at:
home and one away. The sched
ule is as follows:
Dal vs. King’s at Dal.
Dal vs. Mt. A. at Dal.
Dal vs. St. Thomas
Thomas.

at St.

 

AFTERNOON CLASSES

On and after Tuesday, November 12th, afternoon classes in the
Faculty of Arts and science will
be held at the hours given in the
Calendar and on the official timetables.

C. L. BENNET,

- » r
¢ Oa - ad]
6 eS a
© soe : a = «we
? he a
tne) ad 5 ee
Lbs at oe —S= ~ F<

definite

  

=

 
       
    
       

 
       
     
       
         
       
       
           
       
    
       
        
         
            
       
         
        
      
  
    
   
   
 
     
   
   
   
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
      
         
     
   
    
  
    
 
   
  
  
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
   
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
  

 
 

OLDEST STUDENT PUBLICATION

  

 
 

Editor-in-Chief
AL LOMAS (3-4505)
Features Sports
JACK LUSHER DON HARRIS
News Co-ed Ed.
LEW MILLER, P-3 JEAN BOWERS
Proofreader Circulation
RALPH MacDONALD MARY FARQUHAR
Gffice Mer. Photographer
BILL OGILVIB DON MORRISON
u ' Cartoonist
‘DON HARRIS BOB TUCK

. - CONTRIBUTORS AND REPORTERS THIS WEEK:
Mary Lou Christie, Ralph MacDonald, Don Chipman, Abe Léventhal,
Fran Doane, Dan Soberman, Bill Lovatt, Bob Grant, Bob Tuck, Windy
a (O'Neil, Elsie Coleman, Pinwheel, Geraldine MacKay.

 
 

  

  

 
  

: ” Friday, November 8, 1946

NO AUDITORIUM?

No! No auditorium at Dalhousie. Truly a sad state of affairs.
ey “Neophyte dramatists run the risk at each rehersal of swallowing a.
Pui “i admington bird, or suffering a dislocated neck from a far—fiung.
_ basketball—and still no auditorium. Orchestra practices must compete with girl’s basketball, choral practices are forced to resort to

ee strange hours, because at Dalhousie both Athletics and Dramatics must
ci oh use ‘the same space for practice and presentation. Each Glee Club
A ie _ show means that some one must place and remove approximately 800
at ee | chairs to ensure a clear floor for Athletics.

The Wt Our' gymnasium is -considered comparatively adequate— for a
PS. fhe gymnasium! As the scene for musical and dramatic productions it is
bic discouraging, to say the least. There is a ‘dead space’ on the floor,
. e are sae 40 feet from the stage, where even Joshua’s famed noise would
ve j + be. muted to a whisper. A similar dead space exists on the stage itself.
lean The backstage facilities are simply not there. Dressing rooms are the
ne i ‘men’s and womens’ locker rooms. The Glee Club’s costume depart| - ment has no costumes—because there is no place to store same. Make' é up is applied amidst the clutter and confusion of the ‘kitchen’.

_-- -Glearly an auditorium is needed if the Dalhousie Glee Clib is to
continue its role as a seat of outstanding University productions. The

ay, le GAZETTE advocates action!

— STUDENT GOVERNMENT

' | Byety year—shortly after the Christmas festivities have suba - sidetl—the Dalhousie Campus becomes a buzzing hive of political activity. Election rallies are held, posters appear, handbills are disae -_tributed—and behind it all are the Student Council elections—held
Re annually on the first Tuesday of March.
phe. This editorial is designed as the preamble to a series of articles
Cry which will appear in The GAZETTE—presenting to the students ‘of
Dalhousie that small group into whose hands they pass the torch of
7 ie student government. The GAZETTE hopes the purpose of these
¥)) | yasticles will not be misinterpreted. They will not be written to furv. ther the cause of any group planning to elect the new president. Nor
Bi will they be criticisms or approbations of the present Council. It is
Ae te > hoped that they will foster a healthy, interested attitude toward the
te i Ths. g Sti udent Council and the coming elections.
i Far too many students forget that the Council is an extremely
Py oe ")fenrean factor in the student life at Dalhousie. Many feel themselves to be above the “childish” wrangling. Possibly it has slipped
ee oer their minds that the Council they elect has the responsibility of exk Bi meet, ‘pending the entire sum resulting from the Student Council fee of
ne
a bn ten. dollars paid by each student upon registration.
7 ory: 4 Dalhousie’s student government is responsible (to the Student
os ae Body, and to the University Senate on occasion) and representative.
be ; nes President is not only president of the Student Council, but also
ree of the Student Body, and the Council’s executive members hold similar
BS Phe By constitution, the Council “shall consider recommendations,
i iy resolutions and motions passed at meetings of the Student Body.” Its
| eis ws zs ae are representatives, elected from the students regisas a i (tated in the various departments of the University.

— EDITOR'S MAIL

6 Dear Sirs)
we, Last week’s Gazette contained a letter from one Mr. Dan Livingey, stone, who seems to think he gets a very good view of the world from
a She. little pink cloud which he obviously inhabits.
‘In deploring The Gazettte’s recent article, “Our Upright Selves,”

  

    

   
 
 
 
  
 
 

Lie ae

gap between the East and West, and that only friendship and undernding between East and West can prevent a disastrous Third
Vorld War. Of course Mr. Livingstone is quite right. But Mr.
Ne a SBiinaatsne and a great many of his kind (remember Munich?) seem
to forget that when one party does not wish friendship and under_ standing, friendship and understanding fail. And again, how can
there be an understanding. between two ideologies that are as unlike
x as. night and day? Democracy is willing to try and live in a world
: h Communism, but Communism is pledged to the destruction of
ly, ety tpenagey, and Communism ean only live to destroy Democracy.
ne Mr. Livingstone, in his pink cloud, should not be hoodwinked by Mr.
_ Stalin’s s honeysweet statements that contradict all that he has ever
Bal ee has done, Yours truly, ROBERT TUCK.

eri

.,
ate
n " Pee oa
_ ‘ edt
i!

me ae!

#\

4

as f ?
ela 1 Ae , , “ ,
Ba WAR or uN Sitter Mel peal ake m

i She says that the author of said article has done his bit to widen the.

yee F Ia /
on a pe *
et ee rit oN

ars - z rp:
-* Tr ' a

oa
LETTER”

Dear Sir:

I am writing to ask you if your
students would like to correspond
with the British University Students, through the Victoria
League University Students’ Correspondence Scheme, which contacts British Students with Students overseas?

If you can kindly send me a
list of the names, ages and college or home addresses of students willing to correspond with
ours—lI will send you a return list
filled in with the names and addresses of British students with
whom they will correspond. Ages,
and lines of studies will be
matched as nearly as possible, id
you can kindly supply me with the
details.

We donot give girls correspondence links with men. I mention this rule as we are sometimes
asked to do so. We have linked
a very large number of children
in Nova Scotia with British children — through the Victoria
League. School Children’s Correspondence Scheme, with very
happy and successful results; we
are now inaugurating a University Students’ correspondence
scheme. We hope that students
of Dalhousie University will be
interested in this scheme.

Hoping for your co-operation,

I remain,
Yours truly,

(MISS) PHYLLIS FRASER,
Joint Secretary, Personal Corre
spondence,

ATTENTION

November 4th, 1946.
To ALL men students of Dalhousie
Dear Fellow Dalhousians:

On behalf of the Dalhousie
Alumni Association, I cordially invite you to meet with us at a
Smoker to be held in the Dalhousie
Gymnasium on the evening of
Monday, November 18th, at eight
o'clock.

Many of you have attended the
Smokers of the past few years
and we hope that you have enjoyed them as much as the Alumni
who met with you. This year we
want EVERY man in the University to be on hand and meet Dalhousians of all ages in this annual
get-together.

The evening will be an informal one with Dalhousie songs, and
variety entertainment by Dalhousians and outside talent. Add
to this an abundance of smokes
and refreshments and you have a
big time.

Tickets the
available for the asking

Smoker are
at the

for

following places:

Faculty of Law Office.»

Registrar's Office,

Alumni Office (Gym)

Med Library,

Dental Office,

Get your ticket now and let’s
make the 1946 Smoker the biggest and best yet.

Sincerely yours,
M. M. Rankin,
President,
Dalhousie Alumni Association.

 

BIGGER

BIGGER
BIGGER

AND

BETTER

WATCH ‘THIS
SPACE

 

   
 

 

 

 

“The purest form in which tobacco can be smoked" }

 

Students meet at

Diana Sweets
TEA ROOM
368 Spring Garden Road
Toasted Hot Dogs, Lunches
Fountain Service

Fader's Drug Stores

135 HOLLIS STREET
29 COBURG ROAD

Halifax Nova Scotia

‘and

 

Br Smarr-Look SMART

BRYLCREEM

THE PERFECT HAIR DRESSING

® Applied every morning, BRYLCREEM will
keep your hair looking smart and well-groomed
all day long. The natural oils in BRYLCREEM >
overcome dandruff and dry scalp, give the hair

a healthy, natural lustre without that greasy

appearance, All druggists sell BRYLCREEM in

the handy, convenient tube. Buy today. F

 
 
 
 
 
   

 

Ss,
re) pe 
dat

 

FAVORITES SINCE 1906
Moncton, N. B.

Halifax St. John Quebec Montreal

 

Malhousie University
Halifax, Nova Scotia

Largest Staff, Libraries and Laboratories in the Maritimes

The Faculty of Arts and Science
enjoys international distinction

. Diplomas in:
Engineering
Education
Music
Pharmacy

Degrees of:
Bachelor
Bachelor

of Arts
of Science
Bachelor of Commerce
Bachelor of Music
Master of Arts Hospital Pharmacy ‘
Master of Science Mining Geology
Pre-Professional Courses
Honour and Advanced Courses in many departments
in the B. Sc. course about $210.00 a year .
in the B. A. Course average about $160.00 a year
Many valuable scholarships, on entrance and through the courses
Regional Scholarships awarded on the result of examinations held in
February in any Maritime school. Special $600.00 scholarships for Honour courses in Classics, Mathematics, Modern Languages and Histo
The Professional Faculties fe

Inclusive Fees

 

Law, Medicine, Dentistry, enjoy an unexcelled reputation. ‘

Residences

Women students live in Shirreff Hall — one of the finest Women’s
Residences in the Dominion. Residence is provided for first year men
in the University Men’s Residence. Other men students live in either 4
of two affiliated institutions or in selected and approved homes.
Special arrangements are being made to accommodate married and
single ex-service students.

Meals for all students are available at the University.
For full information write to THE REGISTRAR. 7

 
  

 

 

 

 

‘ Warner’s Boys
|
Hits Of Dance

e*

3 Drums... primeval gloom. . . swaying bodies in a pagan ritual. . .

. moaning voices wailing ‘““To each his own, to each his own. . .’’. Such
was the gym on Friday night. It wasn’t a resurection of ceremonies
of some far off Pacific island; it was another Students’ Council dance
pounding on to its loud climax.

Don Warner and his savage sextet supplied the boogie-woogie
and his new soloist, Maynard Taylor, took the leads in the chants to
the gods, with the exception of the war chants, which were reserved
for the leader. Warner himself snag the dirge to the war god Heyba-ba-ra-bob, and his mate Caledonia. |

‘ The natives soon churned a! ihe

| themselves into a frenzy to the N. e bli
alternate sobs and screams of the Oo u city
music-makers and their celebra- a s

. tions were both loud and long. F or P ublicity
Reflections of the glow sustained i
by the fires were seen as far away Committee?
as Norman’s volcano. !
As the evening moved on, the A little known but integral
earlier savage mood was replaced Part of the student government
a by a more relaxed and langorous at Dalhousie has been functionone, more suitable to the tropical img under the leadership of Bill
atmosphere of the Gym. A huge Mingo and Don Dunlop. This
yellow moon slowly climbed up committee has been organized to
the wall and across the ceiling, handle the publicity and adveri and swaying couples wove intri- tising of the affairs of all organcate and beautiful patterns across 2@tions supported by the Stud> the sand. The air was laden with ¢ts’ Council.
| the scents of flowers and a cool, The committee is divided into
early morning breeze wafted them three sub-committees, namely,
to every corner of the island. Publicity, Gate Receipts and
j Maynard Taylor, protege of Cheer-leading.
f. the chief, induced this latter Those who have been serving
mood of langor and relaxation as cheer-leaders are: Jack Boud% with his romantic cl%nts and eau, Phil Raymond, Allister

 

there was an excess of nose rubbing and exchange of leis. Seldom, if ever has such a successful
celebration been held on _ Dalhousie Atoll.
Unfortunately, due to a ruling
(Continued on Page 8)

Robertson, Jean
Patty MacKinnon.
Gate Receipts are handled by
Al Blakeney and Bob Roome.
The Publicity group, under the
direction of Bill Ogilvie, is sub
(Continued on Page 8)

Bowers and

CANADA’S

  

  
  

oS

OLDEST STUDENT PUBLICATION

 

Page Three

 

 

 

DALHOUSIE ©
NEWMAN CLUB

Council Revamps

 

REORGANIZES Dal-Kings Status

The second meeting of the
Dalhousie Newman Club was held
Sunday at which the main item
of business was the appointment
of an executive. It includes:
Ernie Finlay MacDonald, president; Peggy Hyland, vice-president; John MacCormick, secretary-treasurer. As _ directors of
the social, intellectual and spiritual committees” Jack Boudreau,
Mark Yeoman and Terry McLean
were named respectively.

At the recent conference of
the Canadian Federation of Newman Clubs held at U.N.B. on QOctober 25th to 27th, Dal was represented by Peggy Hyland, Don
Metcalfe, Jack Boudreau, Terpy
McLean, Earl Lee and Don MacEachern.,

Plans have been finalized to
hold a dance on November 12th
with Don Warner’s orchestra in
attendance. On November 17th a
communion breakfast will be held
at Mount St. Vincent.

The meeting unanimously approved having Catholic students
at N. S. Tech admitted to the Dal
Newman Club. This will augment
its membership to well over 300
students.

The following were appointed
as special Newman Club representatives in their faculties:

Medicine—Don Metcalfe.

Law—Vince Morrison.

Engineering — Harvey McKeough.

Arts and Science — George
Cooke and Ed Foohey.

Pharmacy—Mary Hamusiac.

Representatives will be named
from dentistry and Tech shortly.

A constitution for the Club is
being prepared by Mark Yeoman,
in tonsultation with the exeeutive,
and it will be presented for approval at the next meeting.

A motion was enthusiastically
carried at Sunday’s meeting to
tender thanks to university officials for the use of the engineering common room for club meetings. ;

 

Union Fails To Foil
Fun At Fall Frolic

      
 
   
  
     
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
   

Dal students turned out in droves to hear, for
the first time, the music of Don Warner’s full Dal
Orchestra but once again. Such was not to be, as
the local branch of the Musicians’ Union felt
obliged to intervene in the festivities, issuing orders
that union members could not appear with the full
orchestra at Dal. The reason for this action, according to President Don Lowe, was that the
Union’s constitution forbid Union members to
play with non-union men.

Don Warner, leader of the Dal outfit, in a
statement to The Gazette, stated that since then,
he has been informed that Dal’s non-union musicians would be accepted by the Union some time
this week.

On the night of the dance, a Union representative appeared on the scene and stated that only
Union members could take part in the night’s activities, since they claimed that a charge was levied
upon outsiders seeking admittance to the dance,
although accompanied by Dal students. The non
f ab a,
ee

union men immediately offered to pay the required
fee of twenty-five dollars and asked to be allowed
to play that night.

The Union man, a Mr. Hovey, informed them
that he had no personal objection to this proposal,
but that the Union Constitution prohibited such an
action being taken. Therefore, he was forced to
refuse permission for them to play.

As a result of this action the Dal Sextette,
composed of Union members, had to step in and
fill the breach, which they did to everybody’s satisfaction, even outdoing previous performances,
according to all reports.

It was thought, at first, that the non-union men
might have difficulty in joining the Union, due to
a residence clause, but it was later learned that
the Halifax branch was the only active representatives of the Musicians Union in the Maritime Provinces, thus permitting any Maritimer to join, providing that he could meet the other qualifications.

:


The Students’ Council decided Monday night to renew the Dal
housie-King’s Agreement.

This agreement between the students of

the two universities provides for the use of Dal athletic equipment

and playing field by King’s students.
privileges King’s pays to Dal a sum of money each year.

In return for these and other
lt was de
cided to allow King’s to use the playing field on the Saturday after
noons when the Dal senior team was not playing.

The subject of a

separate section of Pharos, for King’s was left to Bill Pope to arrange

with King’s.

 

PRESIDENT

CLINT HAVEY

_

Poetry And
Prose Prizes

Proffered

Prizes For Poetry And Prose

The attention of Dal students
is drawn to a notice that has been
posted on bulletin boards on the
campus stating the conditions for
eligibility for students who wish to
compete for the W. H. Dennis
English Prizes,

Candidates may submit not
more than four poems for the
Howe Prize. The poems may be
lyrie, epic or dramatic, and they
may be of any length.

Candidates for the DeMille
Prize may submit more than one
manuscript. Tle term “essay”
is to be liberally construed to include short stories and descriptive sketches as well as essays
proper upon any literary, historic
or philosophich subjects. Essays
proper should be between 4,000
and 6,000 words; but originality
of thought, freshness of treatment, style, ete., will be chiefly
considered by the Jury of Award.

Compositions must be handed
in to the Registrar’s Office on or
before March 31, 1947.

D. V. A.

Benefit cheques for some veterans have not been made for the
full amount due. As far as possible, D.V.A. is endeavoring to
make adjustments by issuing additional cheques during the
Other adjustments  wi!!
be made when the next cheque is
issued.

 

montn.

 

The council amended The Gazette Constitution. Under the
new constitution the business
manager is required to make four
yearly reports to the council. The
Maleolm Honour Award Committee was appointed by the council. The committee is to consist
of Bob Roome, Molly Schwartz,
Dr. Bell, Dr. Wilson and Larry
Sutherland, chairman. The Dalhousie Citizens’ Forum recommended -that the University authorities purchase a radio for the
use of the students and the council endorsed this recommendation.

The president of the D.A.A.C.
and John MacCormack, physical
director, brought up the matter of
a hockey rink. It was decided
that the D.A.A.C. meet with the
athletic association at King’s to
discuss the possibility of a rink on
the King’s campus. The council
decided to adopt the arrangement
proposed by the City Senior Basketball League whereby the games
will be played in the Dal gym,
with Dal and the League splitting
the profits.

It was moved that the president
of the council approach Dr. Kerr
to get a declaration of his policy
regarding the law about the consumption of liquor on and off the
campus. The council discussed
the proposed war memorial. Last
year the students voted to increase the council fee by $5.00 to
help pay for a memorial residence.. It was reported that the
Board of Governors had turned
down the increase this year because they had not completed ar
(Continued on Page 8)

COMING
EVENTS

It is the intention of The Gazzette to publish weekly a summary of the events of the following week on this page under the
head “Coming Events’’.
to facilitate the

In order

no later than Tuesday noon.
Friday, November 8th
Med Dance at the Gym.
Monday, November 11th
No classes.

Tuesday, November 12th
Halifax Ladies Musical Club
at the Gym.

Citizens’ Forum at the Homestead.

9:00 p.m.
Debate—Room 8 at 7:30 p.m.
PHAROS OFFICE OPEN FROM
12:00-12:30' FOR PHOTOGRAPHS,

 

=O et een Ek ee

sien cel Pin

collection of
news, it is desirable that The:
Gazette be informed of the events:

—————

 
 

 

 

[ ye an ee

| Page Pout Lee

TIGERS WIN FINALE -- 11-3

 

 

 

GURY WU ua ei a

Didlelines 
BY DON HARRIS

During the past week, stories, idle or otherwise, directly and indirectly, have been brought to the attention of this writer, concerning
threats of physical injury to me because of views and ideas expressed

jn this column about Dal’s football team.

Apparently, some of the

players feel they have been the victims of unjust accusations, although
in most cases these threats have come from chief offenders, according

to this column's views.

These persons feel that this writer has no

right to express an opinion about football, or any other sport, I sup
pose, because, he is not an active participant.

Granted he is not an

active participant, though the choice was Nature’s, not his, he should

_ then answer these persons by telling them they do not have the right

to criticize the Gazette Sports Pages, because they do not take an
active part in writing or setting them up

In both instances, the logic
does not make common sense.
They have the right, and the
privilege, and use it, of saying
what they like about the Sports
Pages. Furthermore, the Gazette
prints such criticisms and no one
questions the right to these criticisms.

Why should they deny me the
same rights and privileges regarding sport reporting and comments?
They do, however, and back up
this denial with threats of physical force. Surely college students
are mature enough to realize that
such threats seldom accomplish
such purposes as these players
propose to achieve. Rather, they
tend to have the opposite effect.

Also, when a man resorts to
physical threats, very often he
knows he is in the wrong, but

 

Drawing =

were smooth as
smooth can be?

rURQUOISE

aA Wish the point
would last and last
and LAST?

Chemi -Sealed

K Wish it were the
very finest pencil
for drawing and

writing you ever
laid hands on?

EAGLE ™

Make your wish
come true—

10c

EACH
Loss in

nn, Gag
EA GES cette YT

ra | 2

ie eS ae I

     

claims.

   
  
  
  
 
   
  
  

tries to bully his way out anyway.

If these players feel that they
have been wronged, let them appeal to the majority and I will
certainly admit I am wrong, if
the majority substantiate such
But physical threats -will
result in a much more serious
situation developing for those
making the ‘threats, as they are
leaving themselves wide open for
counterattacks of all saxts.

To misquote, ein a more may
be gained by ‘reasoning’ than
‘these people’ dream of”.

Football Finis

Dal Tigers wound up their foot- .

ball schedule with a decisive win
over their old rivals, Wanderers,
again showing, only at times
though, the ingredients which go
into the making of a winning
combination. To clear up a misunderstanding, most of the players
give their best individually but
they definitely do not always
give their best as a team. Team
play wins games and makes good
showings, while individual efforts
get writeups in the papers—
‘period. Even individual efforts
were not often mentioned in this
paper—at the request of Coach
Mel Sheppard.

Since the end of the season is
here, there is no harm in mentioning two players, who gave outstanding exhibitions on Saturday,
their best of the season. I refer
to Bill Beer and Alec Farquhar,
both of whom played brilliant
ball. Several others showed up
fairly well, but again, the ‘team’
itself was still a bit weak in passing, receiving of passes and following up of kicks, although they

were certainly stronger than in,

certain other games recorded in
these columns.

Although the game was ragged
in parts, the Tigers did make a
fair showing in their final match,

(Continued on page 8)

ame eed

 

CASINO

ODEON THEATRE

, for one week,

“Wicked
Lady’ 9

STARRING

JAMES MASON,
_ MARGARET LOCKWOOD,
PATRICIA ROC

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

Friday, November 8, 1946

 

Tigers Finish Third

 

Overpower Wanderers

Dal Tigers wound up their football schadule te thid place in the Halifax City Football League,

by soundly beating Wanderers 11-3 at the Recreation Centre on Saturday.

The game was witnessed

by a small crowd, who braved the cold weather to see the “Gold and Black’”’ squad gain revenge for

their earlier defeat at the hands of the Wanderers.

The Tigers exhibited a marked

improvement in

their tackling and passing along the line, although in the latter department they still left much to be
desired. Wanderers started the game by kicking to Dal, and the Tigers immediately ran the ball back
deep into Wanderer’s territory on a nice line run. MacKenzie dribbled the ball through the Wanderer’s
line for a 25 yard gain, followed by a penalty kick by Farquhar which forced Wanderer’s to touch in the

first few minutes of play.

“«

 

PRELUDE TO VICTORY

 

A Player's

‘ i
Rome was not built in a day! Nor is a football team!

day, not in a month, not in a year.
to build the mighty Caledonia football machine.

 

Not in a
John McCarthy took five years

In five short weeks

Mel Sheppard has been trying to drive home a system that took Mc
Carthy five years.

Saturday afternoon at the Wanderers’ Grounds, Dalhousie Tigers
justified Mel Sheppard’s faith and untiring efforts, by trouncing a
bewildered Wanderers thirteen by an 11 to 5 score, that should have

been much higher.

The Tigers despite the loss of speedy “Bob’’ Mac
Donald, and despite the fact that no iess than five of the regulars were
handicapped by injuries exhibited some of the team play that Sheppard has been striving to put across.

Thus in their last two starts,
against Navy and Wanderers, the
Dal Senior team proved that the
system was taking effect. In this
writer’s opinion the Tigers ended
the schedule as_ the
team in the league!

There are none so blind as
those that will not see! In our
darkest hour, when we had dropped our first three starts, with
hooting and cat-calls, the whining
critics of all types showered verbal brick-bats on a weary, sweatstained team that had rever, not
for one moment,
ing, regardless of the score against
them. The team was in the process of being built into a football
machine—a real TEAM! At times
the games were ragged, as naturally they would be, but, as the last
two games proved, the lessons
were absorbed, and never forgotten. If Mel Sheppard is at the
helm next year, I believe that

WANTED

Students—your opportunity to
earn easily extra money for
Christmas. Represent SATURDAY NIGHT, Canada’s popular
condensed weekly, in spare time.
Christmas gift offers just released. High commission. Apply
Mr. Chapman, 73 Richmond St.
West, Toronto.

‘strongest :

stopped fight
Dal will have a championship
team, which even Mr. Harris can
cheer.

One of my happiest memories
of Dalhousie will be my participa.
tion with such a spirited squad as
this years football team. Their
constant enthusiasm and their
never-say-die spirit, gave the lie
to the Sports Editor’s accusation
of lack of spirit. I have played
on a number of teams in various
sports, but I must say that I never
played with a team that had more
fighting spirit. I am proud to
have been a member of that team.

VINCE MORRISON,
(Lock in scrum of Dal Tigers)

Wanted

STAFF ARTIST FOR YEAR
BOOK. APPLY PHAROS
OFFICE AT 12 NOON ANY
DAY.

         
  
 

| EVANGELINE |
TEA ROOM

Commonly known as JOE’S
280 Quinpool Road
HALIFAX, N. S.

 

In the next few minutes of
play the ball came out of the
scrum to Doug MacDonald, who
booted it over the heads of the
Redmen, where it was taken by
Primrose and-«dribbled a few
yards, finally to be picked up by
MacKeigan, who raced over the
line for the first Dal touch, and
Dal led 3-0 as MacDonald missed
the convert.

At the ten-minute mark Farquhar kicked from behind the scrum,
and Primrose recovered the ball,
fumbled by Wanderers. The ball
was passed to MacDonald, and
then to McQuinn, who carried it
over, bringing the score to 6-0, as
Farquhar missed the kick.

On a pass from Earle to Foley
the Wanderers scored their only
try of the game, after a pressing
attack led by Burgess and Bauld.
Dunphy scored the final goal for
Dal, with MacKenzie making the
try good.

Ouinemiae for Dal were Beer,
Farquhar and MacKenzie, with
the Bauld brothers and Burgess
turning in nice efforts for Wanderers.

Dal—Beer, Pothier, Primrose,
Farquhar, MeQuinn, MacKenzie,
MacDonald, Dunphy, Morgan,
McColough, Morrison, Bell and
McKeigan.

Wanderers—Stech, Earle, McLellan, Doug and Goey Bauld,
Burgess, Foley, Blakeny, Lownds,
Wiswell, Harvie, Miller, Tarusak.

D.G.A.C.

Two games in the co-ed interclass basketball series were played
off on Tuesday evening, with the
final results now giving the Seniors, Sophs. and Freshettes
one game to their credit. Tuesday’s games were between the
Seniors and Freshettes, and the
Juniors and Sophs. The Seniors
won 27-24, and the Sophs. 22-12.

The first game, between the
Seniors and Freshettes, was a
close one from one-quarter to the
next. By the end of the first
half, it looked as though the
Freshettes were going to make it
out on top, for they had 16 points
to the Seniors’ 13. However, the
Seniors picked up and held the
Freshettes down to 4 baskets in
the final frame, while they copped
7, giving them a Winning score
of 27-24,

Seniors:

each

Joyce Hart 9, Lois
Rattee 4, Irene Robinson 14, Syb
Pentz, Mary Farquhar, Terry MacLean.

Freshettes: Priscilla Raymond
2, Marg. O’Neill 6, Nancy Jones
6, Pat Snuggs 10, Lib Doull, Marlyn Hebb, Jocelyn Rogers, Noelle
Barter, Betty Petrie, Renate
Fisher, Bobbie Cross, Marie Dee,
Anne Tompkins.

In the second game, the Juniors
took over for the first half to lead
the Sophomores 8-6. The play
changed hands after half time,

(Continued on Page 8)

 

¢

 

 

 
   

s¥ il 4 P » "Y ' 7 ’ 4 ‘
tt : ‘ ' , * . :
4 . wy } ae» ‘ al ey Mace Fee ry y i :
i es 5 & me | i~ ¥ 4 : , 5 4 Pak: c% ; F : ‘ r 5
; A ne r ‘ fut ai tem A ty Mh ae oly = na : Oey ‘ a ; ;
q 4 “‘S. A i ae be 1 » at 4. ative ‘ ‘ ne 2 a 1 rs
1 , i i 7 ; i - ees ay ” Bid ee TT he ~ ri ‘ * ; a
“4 Prd ee! aad BY if 7 4a fw? 1¥ a f
i a = aes wey PL oe “sf
a Ps a. ic » een © eo } ‘
: : me ie vi r f.
e i Fi on es
, ; , 4 i. ss . ‘ t =
1 ee lWaay, — P ' P
. Beret! GENUS eas oO a Leo are
> roe - ween 4a ee a i : 7
4 cs —_—
, "= ; 7 - Pre »
ae 7 Int . i
a ? i Fs a , ‘a
7" A ) “ 2
fan iyo > de } '
; ee, m j
4 + wf ie ip f
7 aa y '
, 5 a
s . : Ni ‘ 1 s
“ihe ©! Ly wv
i he
. ' ; c ‘
he ‘ iy " i {
a Le ¥ .
“i ae L F
; ec i om
a4 . — = ’ =
» £ it *
4 a. ‘ Z
ia
i
‘s
‘
e

Tennis Seeking
Dominion Title

By DON HARRIS
On the front page of this week’s

 

  

By WINDY O’NEILL -_». It looks as though the onus i.
ia , on the girls. One of the loca
sirens should sacrifice herself by
marrying some millionaire and

Se ay
sa

BN AREAS ss THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

issue of the Gazette appears a

    

 

Page ‘Five

 

| *

then endow the university with a

 

‘woman’s gymnasium. Those soul
_ vending shrieks that blare out of

the lower gym every afternoon

emanate from the throats of the

frustrated males who are daily
caught unawares, standing in the
buff, between the lockers, as Mrs.
What’s Amazons troops through
with a blase air. We don’t know
what they do behind those closed
doors but we suspect that they
are practising some voodoo rite

such as the tearing apart of «

man-dummy, rolling-pin archery,
etc. Just think of the poor men
caught with their knobby knee.
showing—and without their sho:
ders on! !

e a * *

Toronto has launched a _ half
hour program over one of the local radio stations where the participants are exclusively undergrads. This provides a fine opportunity for budding composers,
Playwrites, etc., to throw themselves in front of the public. Does
this give anyone an idea?

It is rumored that several jealous co-eds from the Dal campus
are plotting to stgal the new tuck
shop redhead’s black sweater—
THE CADS!

“ee ae oe 4

After a dull start, the U. of
Toronto’s football squad has become so good that they have issued a challenge for the Grey
Cup, which is emblematic of the
Canadian Championship. Queens
tried it once and were swamped
by Hamilton Tigers.

Jim Coleman of the Toronto
Globe and Mail, a former McGill
man, is judged by many critics to
be one of the best columnists in
North America, probably second
only to the great Damon Runyon.
One of the factors that make him
great is his unhibited way of writing anything that he can think of.
He once bought a race horse
called Broomtime for $200, and
the ungrateful hide ate big
amounts of the most expensive
kinds of hay but refused to win
a race. Finally, in disgust, Jim
“sold him for $100. The next
week the horse won a $5,000
stake race which also raised his

(Continued on page 8)

The Ugly
ec

The ugly duckling of the Dal
Sports World, soccer, reared its
ugly head at the semi-annual
D.A.A.C. meeting last Tuesday,
with a plaintive cry for recognition coming from Harry Zappler,
in order that the outcast might
reappear on a sound footing, with
no strings attached.

The duckling almost ran into
hot water, but managed, temporarily, to withstand a legal barrage, which was destined to sink
it into the mire of constitutionality. However, putting its best
foot forward,’ it shed the drops
from the storm of protest, like
water off a duck’s back, and swam
to a temporary haven, a committee to investigate a former committee, who intend to have a still
former committee investigated.

 

(Ed’s Note—It will all come\
out in the See

story concerning Tennis, with Dal and McGill involved. The dispute
has brought to a head a sore point in Intercollegiate Sport, the complete
ignoring of the Maritimes by Central and Western Canadian Univers
ities whenever Dominion Titles are at stake.

In some sports, it is true,

we do not measure up to their standards, but in others we are equal,

if not better.

Cauliflower
Tid Bits
The manly art of self-defence

onc again has become part of
Dalhousie extra-curricular activity, and with hope of fewer cauliflower ears for the coming season.
Manager James Cruikshank, assisted by Stewart McNaughton,
have thus far held two prgctice
workout. Over twenty hopefuls
have turned out in the past two
weeks, and the boys hope to increase the number of practices to
four weekly.

 

Light, welter and middleweights
are in the majority, but, as most
of them are newcomers’ to the
fight game, coach Jack McKenna,
onetime amateur middleweight
champion of Canada, has not yet
picked his fighting team. Both
he and Ron Wallace, a champion
in his own right, are arranging a
tournament with St. Mary’s College late in November.

The most important fistic event
of the season will be the intercollegiate competition to be held
some time in February or early

in March. By then all challeng- indoor courts, although this would ap Javelin — Maritimes 170.3’);
ers should meet with stiff oppo- place them at a considerable dis- ©@N@dian universities rank first, 9 455i, (162’ 7 1-2”); West
sition from the Gold and Black. advantage. the Maritimes are second and the 444’ 5”),

Tennis, especially at Dalhousie,
is, if we can judge by compari
sons of records and actual com- :

petition between players from
Dal to McGill, up to the standards
of the other Canadian Universities, Dal’s Bill Moreside, hailing
from P.E.I., has been one of the
best senior players in the Maritimes for several years, holding
the P.E.I. championship and being runnerup in the Maritime
Finals this year.

Dal’s number one doubles team
—Blair Dunlop and Fred Fennel,
both from Halifax, are Waegwoltic champs, and waltzed through
their intercollegiate opposition.
Dunlop, number two man on the
Dal team, has played Jack Spencer of McGill, their top man, defeating him in Halifax a year ago
and losing to him by a score of
6-4 in Montreal this past summer.

The other members of the Dal
squad will be chosen from among
last year’s Intercollegiate Winners and the entries in Dal’s Tennis Tournament. Chief among
those vying for positions on this
team are Burnie Creighton and
Ian Rusted, manager of the Dal
team,

Dal is even willing to play on

 

Interfaculty

Oct. 25: Frosh 8, Engineers 3.
Oct. 29: Law 9, Frosh 0.

FROSH DOWN ENGINEERS

On Thursday, Frosh scored the
biggest upset thus far in the Interfac Football League, when
they defeated Dal’s rugged Engineers, 8-3. ‘

Outscored, but not outplayed,
the “Boilermakers” were the aggressors throughout the greater
part of the game. Five minutes
after the opening whistle, -big
“Cas” Harris gave them a three
point lead after plunging ten
yards through a maze of players.
However, before the end of the
half, Wilson scored a well earned
try for Frosh. Both attempts at
convert failed.

 

 

F Ootball

LAW TRIMS FROSH

On Tuesday Law took over the
leadership of the Interface Football League when they defeated
Frosh 9-0.

The wet condition of the playing field greatly affected Law’s
usually smooth-working line, but
they proved to be a team of opportunists, scoring all three trys
on individual efforts.

Gordie Hart scored the only try
in the first half when he picked
up his own penalty kick from the
Frosh twenty- five yard line and
plunged into the corner.

In the second half, Hunt intercepted a pass on the Frosh fiveyard line and scored easily, touching the ball between the posts.

 

 
  

 
 
  

     
 
    
 
   
 
 
     
 
   
   
 
    

 

DALHOUSIE 'S NEW
PHYSICAL DIRECTOR _—~—
VERSATILE

cd

AT HMES EVARLON
ay DUR
  

He STRRRED IW &
RVGBy, HOCKEY,
TENNIS AND

TRACK ss.
F RANGS KAVIER
 

 

Intercollegiate
Track Compared

During the past month, Track Meets have been held by universities in three different parts of Canada, with Intercollegiate Meets in
Halifax, Toronto, and Saskatoon. While the Central and Western
Canadian Meets included jumps and hurdles,
strictly a runner’s tournament, with many relays included in the programme. Again, the Western Meet was divided into two sections with

women participating in one division, while the other two Meets were

strictly masculine affairs, with the weaker sex confining its efforts to .
a

vocal encouragement.

 

On their records the Central

West winds up in third position:
The Ontario Meet had the best
times and distances in six of the
eighth events which can be com
pared, placing second in the other
two, while the Maritimes rank
second, with two firsts, three sec
Sell Canacla’s newest, fastest-selling Christmas Cards. Exclusive
with REGAL Sell the 2)-card
feature box for $1, or REGAL’S
famous “Friendship™ box of all
occasion cards. Double Sales!

i Introduce REGAL’S wonder- §
ful new Canadian Scenes Box.

m 1G cards by famous Canadian

| artists, $1.

the Maritime Meet was”

onds and three thirds. The West
have a record of three seconds
and five thirds. fen,
Here are the actual times and
distances:
100 yard dash—Ontario (10.1);
Maritimes (10.4); West (10.8).
220 yard dash—Ontario (22.8);
West (23.7); Maritimes (23.8).
440 yard dash—Ontario (51.7);
West (52.5); Maritimes (53.0).
880 yard run-Ontario (2.00.5);
West (2.06.2); Maritimes (2.09).
Mile run—Ontario (4.41.2);
Maritimes (4.52.0) ; West (4.56.0).
Discus — Maritimes (126.5’);
Ontario (119.3’); West (109’ 4”),
Shot—Ontario (38’ 4 3-4”);
Maritimes (36’ 7”) ; West (35’ 9”).

 

21 CARD: FEATURE ASSORTMENT

REGAL'S new Framed Gift Pictures of anthentic Canadian Scenes are ideal Christmas
Gifts. Sell for $1. Learn the intriguing details.
Up to 50% clear prof. Write NOW for agent's
1946 Catalog. REGAL STATIONERY CO, LTD.,
105 Simcoe St.. Toronto, Ont. or
163 W. Hastings St.. Vancouver, B.C.

Va eget Med a LTT

 

Corsages

A “Colonial” Corsage de.
signed by ROSEDALE
speaks eloquent volumes
of tenderness and love.

 

NURSERIES Limited’.
381 sarrincton st HALIFAX

 

 

Two minutes later, McNeil went i
In the second half, speedy Bob over on a pass from Hart, mak- nares ‘
Wilson added the winning try for ing the final score 9-0. Finest Quality

Frosh on a sensational 75-yard
run. Angus Reid added the extra
two points on the convert, making the final score 8-3.

 

ORPHEUS Theatre
Fri., Sat.
“CRIMINAL COURT”

‘ae!

“MYSTERY OF THE 5 hoe

HOODED HORSEMAN

Sun. Midnight, Mon., Tues.,
Wed., “SHADOWED”

and “COWBOY BLUES”

 

Oxford Theatre

Fri., Sat.

I DIDN’T DO IT
GEORGE FORMBY
SHOCK

VINCENT PRICE,
LYNN BARRI
M. T. W. T.
The Bells of St. Mary’s
BING CROSBY,
INGRID BERGMAN

 

 

TODAY

Friday, Saturday,

‘‘Anna and the
King of Stam”
with IRENE DUNNE
and REX HARRISON

Mon. — Tues. — Wed.
“Till the End of Time”

with DOROTHY MACGUIRE
and GUY MADDISON

Thurs. — Fri. — Sat.

“Stolen Life”
with BETTE DAVIS

On ee ee

a


fe es a es nr ae ee ee

ae 2

SPORTS EQUIPMENT

 

456 Barrington St.
HALIFAX, N. S.

 

de Slea

 
Sire,

a

_ ye ge

er

 

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

_ comfortable.

TERARY...

  
  

 

_Friday, November 8, 1946

 

THE DICTATOR ...

 

Remembered be?

Sitting by a gently flowing stream
That’s carved a valley from the solid rock,
Eons upon eons, etching deep
Into the verdant earth; so patiently
It works—I wondered as I watched it flow,
_ Had I the patience and the time, could I
- ~ My mark so clearly make upon this earth?

I sat beneath a tall and mighty oak

That’s grown upon the summit of yon hill
For eenturies gone by, and still it grows,

Slowly, aye, but strongly, tall and true

It stands. I wondered as I gazed toward

Its towering summit, could I ever be

As mighty as this tree, so tall, so true?

1), Now I have reached the summit of my power,

: ' Whate’re I wish is done, my word alone

Can cause a bridge to span that flowing stream,
A sharp toothed saw to lay the mighty low;

But still I wonder: when my bridge is gone,
When saplings seeded from that giant oak

Have reached an even greater size, will I

Can I, persisting, live

When nature’s glories perish? No, I fear

That time will soon obliterate my name. — T. B.

‘

       
     
   
 

WHO IS KILROY...

What is he,
That every scribe commends him?
From child to fool of ninety-three,
E’en nations recommend him,
That he might admired be.

Who is Kilroy?

Is he dark, or is he fair?
Is’t for pride or pleasure

That his damned name is everywhere?
Ubiquity’s his treasure.

Fences, walks and walls beware.

Then to Kilroy let us sing
That Kilroy is compelling;
He compels each mortal thing
Upon the dull earth dwelling,
To write his name on everything.

DAVE CLARK,

Why Not Try Socialism?

By LEW MILLER

The anonymous (I wonder why) writer of The Red Peril is
obviously a tool of vested interests, and likely a disciple of B. A.
_Trestrail. (Trestrail was the political pawn of capitalism who became
notorious prior to the last Canadian federal election by his speaking
of anti-social and anti-socialistic thoughts; and who was the very
antithesis of all that is decent when he contemned a C. C. F. leader
because (by an act of God) he was Jewish.).

I wish to congratulat the writer, for, in going to his Goebbelslike extremes, he has presented the facts in such a manner that any
person can look beyond the words and see the thoughts of the ruling

_ Ruling Minority?—The follow‘ing facts were taken from News
Comment, July 15, 1946. Canadians who make more than

_ ~adian
- $3000.00 per year constitute only

6.97 % of all tax-payers. Among
these few is the even smaller
‘group that controlls the press,
and, to a degree, the radio. It
is obvious that most of the published expressions of opinion
come literally from the mouths
of people who do not wish any
of their special priviliges to be
curtailed.

_ Why have I chosen socialism?—
My parents were not socialists,
thus it cannot be said that I was
influenced by home environment.
_I have no bone to pick. My life
(army life excepted) has been
I became a socialist because of the unnecessary
Social ailments that I have seen.
ds it right that a Canadian
youth should have to leave schoo)
because his father dies, and because the boy is suddenly forced
to become a “bread-winner’? I
have seen that happen.

. Is it right that a young widow,
untrained for clerical work and
not strong enough for menial
chores, should have to resort to
_ “boot-legging” to make enough

_ Minority who dread to lose their grasps on the curb-reins of Canada.

money to provide for her children?—I have seen that happen. ~

Is it right that there should be
the paradox of “want amidst
plenty” ?7— It happened after
World War 1, and the system of
government has not changed.

Is it right that a man who has
always been a good, average
Canadian, who has tried to raise
a respectable, healthy family,
should suddenly have to practically mortgage his soul because his
wife has been stricken with any of
a number of costly maladies not
uncommon to women? — This
happens daily. Sometimes the
man has to steal to be a provider.

These questions are merely a
few of a number that I might
ask. I am not learned, and I

 
     
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
     
      
    
 

realize that socialism has _ its
faults. The greatest argument
for socialism, ironically enough,
was that its principles of planned
economy were necessarily used by
the Liberal Party during the past
war to produce the greatest industrial boom that Canada has
ever experienced, and that it
ereated the prosperity which
prompted a parasite to say to a
friend of mine, “If the war had
lasted another year I would have
been able to pay for my house”’.
(For those interested, I recommend “Homo the Sap, or The
Permanent War” by Prof. Morgan of Toronto University.)

Why not try socialism? We
know what other parties can and
cannot do. We can already feel
the inflationary trend caused by
the lifting of controls. Do we
want it to continue? Shall we
complacently drift toward the
depression that always follows
inflation? We can read how socialism benefits Sweden, Autralia,
New Zealand and England. The
Aussies showed their satisfaction
by re-electing their Labor Party
several weeks ago. Remember?—
In last week’s issue of Time, it
is reported that, in spite of contrary propoganda, the latest British Institute of Public Opinion
poll from that the popularity of
the Labor Party has increased.

Canadians like to think that
they are sensible, adventurous amd
progressive. { laugh. When
election time rolls along only a
third of eligible voters will go
to the polls, and only a few of
them will have a lasting interest
in politics. The rest will be cajoled and pampered in vain, for
they will ultimately vote for the
Same party that their parents or
spouses vote for. They will not
be progressive enough to even
think of voting for a party that is
essentially more democratic than
any other Canadian party (Read
“The Structure of the C. C. F.”
by David Lewis) because they
have been told by people like our
anonymous friend that socialists
are “reds.”

In conclusion, I wish to thank
the writer of The Red Peril. One
of the aims of the C. C. U. F. is
to prompt an interest in political
affairs. We are not afraid to be
criticized. Criticism is always
beneficial. ““Anonymous”’ has aided us and we are well pleased.

LEW MILLER.

: College Rings
And Pins

Dalhousie rings are now
in stock—for your convenience,

 

Class orders for pins take
time at the factory—it will
help if you order early.

Henry Birks & Sons
Limited
Registered Jeweller,

American Gem Society
Halifax, N. S.

 

 

“Heat Merchants Since 1835”

S. Cunard and Company, Limited

HARD COAL * SOFT COAL

COKE *

FUEL OIL

OIL BURNING EQUIPMENT

HALIFAX, N. S.

DARTMOUTH, N. S.

 

Nova Scotia....

‘ . . The Way Out

The B. N. A. Act provides for a National, that is, a federally

governed economy.

Not only does it give the Dominion legal control

ever Trade and Commerce, but also over Banking, Currency, Shipping,
Railways, Excise and the Tariff. These are powerful factors allowing
full play to centralizing forces, and inhibiting those which localize,

but the most powerful is the Tariff.
This can be seen from its actual working.

Because Ontario and

Quebec have great natural resources and a large potential market,

various industries and financia] institutions have settled there.

Be
cause those provinces represent so large a proportion of the population and interests of the union, the Tariff machinery, while designed
to protect industry in any part of the Dominion, has been operated
mainly, and quite properly, to protect that of the central provinces.
Moreover, Maritime producers did not need protection, except, as it
turned out, against Canadian industry.

Thus, by under-selling and by
more figressive trade practices,
primarily based on superior capitaliation, central industries have
been able to undermine what
manufacturing we had.

In truth, the Tariff has operated to deprive Nova Scotia of its
favorable bargaining position, and
ef its superb geographic stance
athwart the trade routes of the
North Atlantic. Today, Nova
Scotia’s connection to Canada
means nothing more economically
than 600,000 hogtied customers.

Of the two possible ways out
of this impasse, one has been disposed of above. For it is morally
impossible to design an all-Canada
tariff which will benefit Nova
Scotia by giving our primary
producers low cost means of competing in world markets, and
which will at the same time give
the new, strong, central manufactories their entry into those
markets. ,

The alternative is to give Nova
Scotia, (or at least the Maritimes)
its own Tariff.

The Dominion would lose a
diplomatic weapon, and an important one. The B. N. A. Act
would require amendment — a

truly formidable problem in this
case. But Nova Scotia would be
able to lift the intolerable burdens
of high prices and closed markets
now pressing on its consumers
and producers.

For instance, Canadian producers are now so confident in
their ability to extort exorbitant
prices that they sold recently, for
$1.85, a radio tube which could,
at that time, be imported from theUnited States at a price of 60c
plus a tariff of 20c. The Maritime
consumer has been bluffed out of
looking abroad, and the system™
carries on by its own momentum,
This would be eliminated,

Not so long ago, Nova Scotian.
firms did a roaring trade in salt
cod with Cuba. The federal government imposed protective duties.
on Cuban products, and the Cubans retaliated by excluding us
from {their market, the United
States being more than willing to
supply them. Thus Nova Scotia.
was again the victim of a so-called, national economy.

Therefore, we propose a polit
ical union of the Maritime Provinces, and economic separation
from Canada. That is,

Economic Integrity within the
Confederation.

 

Every

 

 

 

.- should

answer
these
questions:

“W hen should a GIRL consider
Life insurance?’ Usually the
correct answer 1s from the very
day she takes on adult responsibilities and realizes her future
is largely her own making!
Whether you plan to take a job
Of Mafry, systematic saving is
vital to your success. You owe
it to yourself to understand
fully the benefits of the different
types of insurance provided by
The Mutual Life of Canada.

‘Is there any DIFFERENCE
between life insurance companies?’’ There is! Lifeinsurance
companies are much alike as to
policies and rates, but actual
long-term results vary widely.

THE

  

MUTUAL

OF CANADA

 

Student

Life Insurance

LIFE

HEAD OFFICE « WATERLOO, ONTARIO

  
 

We invite you to compare The
Mutual Life of Canada’s record
with that of any other company.
Evidence of the satisfaction of
our policyholders is furnished
by the fact that whole families
and succeeding generations have
entrusted their life insurance
programs exclusively to The
Mutual Life of Canada and each
year approximately 35% of its
new business comes from our
policyholders. Ask your Mutual
Life representative to explain the
special features ofthis Company.

Low Cost

   

Since 1869

 

 
f

/
The sturdy stalwarts of the
_ Law School football team again
proved their prowess last week by
defeating the Frosh team 9-0.
‘This impressive victory boosts the
4 - tetal up te three. So be careful
. Engineers, the Lawyers are out
for blood—Engineers blood.
_ » We're all proud of the Herculean
» efforts of Don MacNeil for his
exploits on behalf of Law football squad. In his first game Don
made a terrific broken-field run
of some 55 yards or so to score
one of the trys in last weeks
game. This historic feat will, I

  
   
    

the annals of Dalhousie. For
further particulars of this outstanding run, consult Don.

There is an expectant tension
in the air as some characters can

for the Law Ball.

Noy. 15th will be one of the
great dates of the year. . . the date
of the Law Ball. No doubt it will

previous years. .. but still good.

Advice to that Kilroy guy:
He’d better be careful around the
Law School or some of the Crime
experts of first year will have
him up on a charge of vagrancy.

~ MEDICINE ©

After due contemplation, we
find that we have little to say.
Although Med students do labor
mightily, day and night, at notetaking, stretcher-bearing, bloodcounting, etc., they find anything
in the nature of 4uill-driving
alien to their natural habitude.
However, we will inform you that
Robie Street, the site of two furl.
ous parties on Saturday night, is
almost back to normal.

AT A GLANCE: First year had
their baptism of fire when they
wrote their general anatomy,
exam on Saturday. Fourth year
is just recuperating from their
hectic visit to the sanatorium in
Kentville. First year medicine
leads the way.in regard to purchasing of Medical Society Membership cards. Meds’ ‘‘Steamroller’ football team did not get into
action in the inter-fac league this
year. However, they are issuing
an open challenge.

THEY SAY: That night calls at
the Grace Maternity don’t cramp
Stevie’s style. That Lorne Burdett and Doc Morton were forced
to use imports for the Hallowe’en
fastivities. That Lorne Burdett
exhibited a typical form of the
Burdett-Allen Syndrome on last
Friday night. That Scar-Face
Cox is going to lay charges against
the Public Health Department.

IN PARTING: Everyone is requested to come early and avoid
the rush at the Med Fall Dance.
Remember to have your tickets
beforehand as they are not on
sale at the door.

ETS

The blue civilian jeep snicked
off a phone pole, riccocheted
along three cars, ran into three
pedestrians and skidded to a halt,
ae” A glamorous thing in bobby socks
stepped daintily out of the wreck.
aes age, “Boy,” she sighed, “That’s

__—s what ‘I call a kiss!”

‘

 

am stire, be engraved forever in’

be a different character, from ,

 

And LATIN?!

, ~ - = —— 1 a
r | - “Fe : eee. rie ne i eee ena tg eae A wet Cre A
4 | * ae og is eri) 7 ea “i <a ee ef , pe A re ; a va iy he
1 hae ) eecreedg i ee ee a Pg el 7 Ja .
ate aw s Pr ba Lens rh o Bae F. eel je as e 7 ‘ 4
’ ae yi Ne res} hin At bi Peta utah feed t ;
: ret : CR ee ; aay WS: ein Ay ay ayy : ak
Hi Pi vee , a oy ] J ’ d
7 . L : 7 ria } i ve in A ei yp - DF leas of, , t . ’
: oS BS Wt oa eee) 1 4 pig re < Lie EE
F : ‘ oan Py Fu eee § iy Ss
Pa Y. ie a" 5 =
PO rakes | THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE Page Seven
ce Ree es ah Las
+ i 4 i
ae . :

 
   

Fate has indeed been kind to me. Nature has given me a con
quering spirit,

d.mother has given me the name

“Alexander.”

“Alexander the Conqueror” I mused. Father gave me a kick. ..“‘Go
conquer your Latin,” he said. “Go to Hell” I answered, but I took
his advice, his Parker 51, and reclined my 6’ 3” frame in his Petty

chair.

“Give me Latin or give me
Death” I said sarcastically, as my
text book fell open at the chapter
which describes Hannibal’s trip
across the Alps. I smiled, thinking of the time I had tried to
cross the Alps, and how that experience had touched my hair
with grey.

I remember that I had started
out by following my guide, but
when she was replaced by a man
I decided to follow my map. Two
days of nothing but goats and
hill-tops indicated that a more

ted. As I rose from the rock on
which I had been plotting she
said, ‘Alexander the Handsome,”
I presume? As we*shook hands I
replied, “Just call me Handsome,
now that we’ve met.” She looked
at me in a Lauren Bacall manner,
for which I reprimanded her, only
to have her reply that she meant
well. She did well, I reflected as
she embraced me in a gesture of
Alpine friendship, and I forgot
my mission to Switzerland. My
thoughts turned to food and shelter, but my hands turned to the
fair one who was beseeching me
to come home with her for a year
or two.

I considered my true love, Amber Gris, who at this time of evening would be seated on the divan
at home, strumming her Iambic
Pentameter, and dreaming of me.
I knew her vengeance would be
swift if I betrayed her trust in
me. But then I considered the
miles between us, and with a reckless gesture I followed my hostess
into her cave.

A Dim View

It is with great gusto that we
broach the subject of “dim views”
this week. We have been silent
on a certain subject for three
weeks, hoping that good breeding
would assert itself in the end. We
were wrong and so, in print, we
herewith take a “dim view” and
advocate a “firm stand’’ in the
matter of those ‘‘clods’”’ who do
required: reading and write
themes while seated on the alltoo-few seats. in the Gym store.
“They also starve who only stand
and wait.”

It has been our practice of late,
in view of threats and violence,
to say nice things about the football team. I think everyone on
the campus will agree that a further three cheers are in order for
that inspired group of players
who, weaing the yellow and black,
defeated Wanderers by a score of
11 to a doubtful 5 on last Saturday (gawd, it was cold) afternoon. Huzzah, boys, huzzah!

 

 

Cc. C. U. F. MEETING
Thursday, Nov. 14, 12 noon in
‘Arts Bldg.
Speaker: A _ Liberal Party
Spokesman. Further Details will
be posted.

, ‘ .
haa
es
ei) e
DNS Ns :
# » - a f
cpt. «9 i ig . 4 )
ew sities * |. : ¥ bo 4 Gal. Dy Fh ce ke
_ di - be a aS 2s I ae ae

(So called because of its curves.)

Inside I politely ignored the
bleached bones which were strewn
about the came, for were we not
in love? We were not, I decided
as I was clubbed from behind and
found myself falling down into a
lower chamber. Here I noted all
manner and from of instruments
of torture and in order to appear
nonchalant I enquired as to their
price and durability. At about
this time I was again struck from
behind, and when I recovered con
/

sciousness I found the Alpine lass

‘only (aeribbline: ins ; ; weeping bitterly at my side. She

Mie, yaa ef) a ela of ee ee ee condemning herself for her ‘Nov 6—This morning, (we living lately in the garret) I rose,
paper in between spasmodic when I fealined em + ce ey. carelessness in not warning me of put on my suit with the great skirts, and proceeded to the Gym Inn,
glimpses at “Halsbury’s Laws of of Brightwood Golf Course We her senile grandfather who hated Here, over my morning bottle of sack I did hear most grievous rumors
Geciend’ nile purose’ "to featad I eat down to ie ae. young men. I feigned contempt concerning three young ladies of my acquaintance. It being reported
figure out how save enough of course. A _ beautiful sie co until she gave me all her Jewels to me in all good faith by several of my friends that these three,
George’s last cheque to shell out hed M P- and personal possessions, includ- “Marg”, ‘Noelle’, and “Mary Lou” by name, had been seen by

& proached. y course was plot
ing her grandfather. Practical
consideration made me see the
folly of holding out any longer,
so I forgave her.

When I inquired as‘to her ancestry she intimated that she was
a direct descendant of that Hannibal who had crossed the Alps
any years before. As she talked,
I turned on a tap marked
“Seotch”’, det it run cold, and
quaffed a big quaff. I was sorry
to drink and run but I realized
that home is where the hat is and
my hat is in the Forrest building.

““Alexander the Handsome” I
mused, with a facetious grin in
my face.

“Go to bed” said father, for it
was now midnight.
“Go to Hell’ I replied, for I
had Latin to do.
HANDSOME.

Patsy Godfrey was driving
along a country road the other
day when she noticed two men
climbing a pole a_ short distance ahead. She turned to Pam
and said: “Those fools! They
probably think that
driven a car before.”

I’ve never

~ health, without any sense of the old pain, but upon taking cold I took

 

Riary Of Sanel Peeps
Blessed be God, at the end of the last edition I was in very good

residence in Dalhousie where I now dwell.

various and sundry persons (of character and proper breeding) disporting themselves on the football field with three young men at a
most indiscreet time of the night. In all truth, it is said- that they
were learning the season’s “fastest plays’ from these three blades,
residents of Acadia and Pine Hill. Much disturbed by this, I went
to the office where I did spend some wearisome hours, Then home

and to bed, where my wife had a very bad time of it through wind and
cold.

Nov. 7—Having been exceedingly disturbed in the night with the
barking of a dog of one of our neighbours that I could not sleep for
an hour or two, I slept late, and then in the morning took physic,
and so staid within all day. At noon my brother John came to me,
and I corrected as well as I could his Greek speech to say at the debate. During our discourse he did inform me of further foul behaviour on the part of Milord Ralph Mahony, the anti-social poleclimber, who is said to have been seen climbing the second pole from
the end on Oxford Street in order to gain a view into the rooms in
Shirreff Hall. This day I began to put buckles on my shoes.

Nov.8—This morning, before I was up, I fell a-singing of my
song, “Great, Good and Just”, and put myself thereby in mind that
this was a fine day, it being the day in which the weekly, the Gazette
was distributed. Proceded in fine fettle to the Gym Inn where I had
a pot of ale with my Lord Foster. Here, I did overhear a conversation
between Mister Peter Gordon and Mister Bernie Creighton concerning the merits of Eastern and Western girls. It was said by Mr. Gordon,
a man of some experience in the matter that Western girls were much
more to be desired in that they had their own carriages (by Cadillae)
and were provided with private incomes by their doting parents.
Hard day in the office, thence home where I dined with my wife on
pease porridge and nothing else, and so to bed.

 

—SAM PEEPS.

 

 

COCA - COLA LIMITED

  

HALIFAX
 

e

     
 

    

_ONIONS TO: the student body
.... Charge, the inevitable mate
of 2arstsy, has hit Dalhousie this
_ year, And in the strangest way.
It is wonderful, but wierd, to see
the library us well filled as the
gym store, and everyone as famjliar with the card catalogue as
the Cape Bretoner with Eaton’s.

Signy this trend toward study

ideal, but the unfriendly,
ye attitude prevalent on the
campus is not conductive to the
social well-being of the student
body. In the past Dal’s informal
spirit made for a happier college
life. There are certainly more
people with whom to get acquainted, but friendships cannot be
formed in an atmosphere of frigidity, aloofness and anti-social attitude. A smile or a nod is all
that is needed for the initial ap“ proach, and the cost is nil. ‘

A bright young lad remarked
that the future looked grim.

Artsmen Win

Mehate

That nationalization of big industry would not be detrimental
to the economy of Canada was

 

successfully upheld by the Arts

and Science debating team of
Don Harris, Bob Kaill and Lew
Miller when they defeated the
Delta Gamma team of Mary Lou
Crowe, Shirley Weatherbee and
Helen Powell.

The winning team was captained by Don Harris in defenddng the negative of the resolution
that “the nationalization of big
business would be detrimental to
the economy of Canada.” The
Delta Gamma team was led by
Mary Lou Crowe.

The judges, F. G. Foster, B.A.,
K.* Boite D. Boyd, President oi
St. Mary’s Debating Society,
were unanimous in awarding their
decisions favoring Arts and
Seience, but each maintained that
the edge of victory was slim.

The chairman, Jim Saunders,
announced that the next debate
will be held in the Law Room at
7.80 p.m. on Tuesday, Nov. 12.
Competing teams will be from the
faculties of Law and Arts &
Science.

PHAROS STYMIED
(Continued from Page 1)

ly, and plans were progressing.
Jim Bell, able circulation Editor
of last year’s greatly revamped
Pharos, had agreed to undertake
the Assistant-Editorship. Several
of last year’s staff had returned,
full of enthusiasm and good ideas.

Plans to include individual portraits of every Dalhousie student
were underway, with at least five

hundred pictures already taken.,

Appointments on Studley campus
will begin November 12, and
must be made in advance. The
Year Book office will be open for
this purpose between 12 and 12:30
daily. (Basement of the Arts
Building—next door to The GAZETTE—<can’t be missed!)
Further innovations — possibly
shattered by financial difficulties
—were the inclusion of color
work, more professional art work,
padded covers, and an overall in
‘erease in quality and quantity.

‘The Editor stressed the quality—
indicating that students may expect a Year Book on a par with
those published by the larger Universities—and even by some of
the "lesser Universities without
the law.” Worried but optimistie, Editor Pope tackled his problem.

~ ORCHIDS and Oni ons

 

Reason—he lost his little black
book. Compatriots George Hawkins and Bob Blois, however,
promise to bring a ray of sunshine into said student’s life with
the publication of the Student’s
Directory, containing all necessary phone numbers. (The Dal
girls are really a bit of all right,
y’know.) i

ORCHIDS TO: the cheer leaders and band who gave such wonderful support to the Dal football
team.

baa The Students’ Gym Committee for their good work.

Srede od Jim Saunders for his
work in starting debating off to
one of its most successful years
in the history of the Society.

..... The Student Council for
its support to the tennis team in
their: challenge to McGill, and to
the Dance Committee for a very
successful, well-conducted dance
this Friday past.

Basketball

Basketball again comes to the
fore in Maritime Intercollegiate
circles, with all teams planning
for a banner year. Dalhousie is
off to one of its earliest starts in
recent years, with Coach Ken
Chisholm putting his charges
through stiff workouts, in preparation for their opening game, in
two weeks’ time, in the Halifax
Senior Circuit. He has cut the
squad down to 28, and will have
named his senior representatives
by the end of this week.

Also off to an early start are
last year’s Maritime Intercollegiate Champs, U.N.B., who have
lined up one of the stiffest schedules faced by a Maritime team.
They have, at the least a gamea-week schedule from Nov. 16th
to April 12th, with other matches
in the offing. They expect that
this rigorous schedule will get the
team into top condition in its
quest for Maritime Senior laurels.

McGILL PONDERS

(Continued from Page 1)

 

would have a good chance of
taking the title. Blair Dunlop
has played Jack Spencer, McGill’s No. 1 man twice, winning
in Halifax and losing 6-4 in
Montreal. Dal’s doubles strength
is regarded as even greater than
her singles with Blair Dunlop and
Fred Fennel.

 

Dine at

The

Green Lantern
The Sign of a Geod
Meal.

 

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

‘ good show for the Sophs.,

Ki 9

On Thursday of last week the
co-eds held an enjoyable Hallowe’en dance indthe Haliburton room.
With. a combination of Hallowe’en
atmosphere, good recorded music,
and plenty of food, it is needless
to say that an enjoyable evening
was had by all.

The evening was highlighted by
the exhibition of a paste-board
model depicting a scene from one
of the football team’s more overwhelming victories.

On Saturday afternoon, the
President’s tea was held at the
lodge. As usual this proved to
be one of the most pleasant social
functions of the year, with a large
number of students in attendance.

The Alumni of the College are
holding a party for the student
body in the Haliburton room next
Thursday.

Football came to an end this
week as far as King’s is concerned. After such a successful season it’s tough that the team
couldn’t have a crack at the title.

Basketball now enters’ the
sports limelight. A large number
of the freshmen have turned out
together with the remainder of
last year’s team. The first two
practices last week gave promise
of a strong team to represent the
college.

The services of a coach, which
could not be obtained for the first
practices are expected to be

available this week.
coin

 

D. G. A. C.

(Continued from Page 4)

with the Sophs. waking up to
bring in a couple of points, putting them in the lead at the end
of the third quarter with 12-10
score. Thelma Aslin put ina
chalking up 8 points in the last duarter. The final.score was 22-12 in
favor of the Sophomores.

Juniors: Carmel White 6, Jean
Noftle 2, Betty Griffith 4, Aileen
MacKenna, Elsie Cruickshank,
Verna Leonard.

Sophomores: Pat Godfrey 4,
Thelma Aslin 12, Frannie Doane
6, Budge Archibald, Pam Stevens, Leslie Ann Hayes.

 

“The Simplest Way to Open a
Mind is through an Interesting
Bit of Information’. And that
is just what every good newspaper endeavors to accomplish.
Every keen student must follow
daily eyents and public questions and judge accordingly with
an Open mind.

Over 85,000 Daily Circulation.

Read
. THE HALIFAX HERALD

and

THE HALIFAX MAIL

“Two of Canada’s Greatest
Newspapers”

 

 

 

<-—-—|Say SCHWARTZ

 

It was a good slogan in war.

“Say Schwartz and be Sure’’.

and be sure!

It is now a good slogan in peace:

We urge it for your protection

that you may be assured of the incomparable Schwartz quality

in Coffee, Spices, Peanut Butter, Jelly Powder, Baking Pow
der and Dried Fruit.

W.H. Schwartz & Sons Ltd.

Canada’s Oldest Coffee and Spice House
Founded in Halifax in 1841

 

   

CAMPUS ROUDUP
(Continued from Page 5)
worth. After witnessing the race,
Jim purchased a few 40 oz. bottles of cough medicine and commenced to render himself horse
de combat. When the time came
to write his column, he could only
struggle to the typewriter and
write in big, broad letters, “THIS
SPACE FOR SALE,” and underneath, a short note explaining
things, saying that he was leavy
ing for the Consumer’s Gas Co.
to make arrangements for a special line to be piped direct to: his
lungs. The ‘result was sensational
and Jim received a pile of condoling fan letters from all over

the U. S. and Canada.

ON THE SIDELINES

(Continued from Page 4)

although their best showings were
against Acadia at Wolfville and
against Navy two weeks ago.
Thus Dal winds up its football
season for 1946, with both Tigers
and Cubs finishing third in their
respective leagues, with a combined record of 4 wins (1 by default), 1 tie, and 9 losses Finis.

COUNCIL REVAMPS

(Continued from Page 3)

rangements for the university’s
campaign.

The discussion of the Glee Club
Constitution, complicated by the
differences between the band and
the musician’s union, was deferred

until the next meeting, scheduled
for Tuesday,

Nov. 26.

 

‘ Friday, November 8,’ 1946
NO PUBLICITY

(Continued from Page 3)

divided into Radio,

paper advertising under Don

Dunlop; Poster advertising under
Bill Ogilvie’s direct supervision.
and Personal Advertising under
By way of ex-
George Hawkins.
planation of the latter, it is the
duty of George Hawkins to personally visit
clubs in the city to explain the
activities to be undertaken by
the University.

We may thank Bill Ogilvie for

the advertising and publicity given
to the university during the football season.

The chairman of the committee
is interested in seeking voluntary
assistance to ensure that such
activities as whe recent trip to
Acadia might be even more
efficiently handled.

WARNER’S BOYS

(Continued from Page 3)

of the American Federation of

entire Warner
orchestra was prevented from
playing. This was a source of
great annoyance to the chief and

Musicians, the

his subjects, and it was the opin-,

ion of many that the war chants

were for the benefit of the afore-
said union.

The success of the dance was:

best seen in the laxity with which
the pear-divers went about their
business the next morning, and it
was the hope of all-the natives

that another one could be held at:

the next full moon.

DELICIOUS DARK CHOCOLATE
with ROASTED ALMONDS

 

Thomas Wallace
SONS & DAUGHTERS

Optometrists & Opticians

Y. M. C. A. BUILDING

Halifax, Nova Scotia

 

 

B245uU

DANCING

SATURDAY

9 p. m. — midnight

NOVA SCOTIAN
HOTEL

 

meee

   
 

and News
other schools and’

    
  

uo

“

 
