- FUND-DRIVE LAUNCH
) Vf.

\ !


 

PNP;
mals LL are,
—e

   

CANADA'S

a

OLDEST STUDENT

riday, February 28, 1947

PUBLICATION

   

Ne. 17

 

 

LATE STARTERS

HAMILTON — KENTY

Feb. 24. An unexpected nomimation for the office of President
of the Students Council was
thrown into the campaign field

several hours prior to the deadline set for presidential nominees,
when the name of Roses Hamilton
was submitted to the out-going
President, Clint Havey.

Ross, a native Cape Bretoner,
needs little introduction to students at Dalhousie. President of

Harold Allan Kenty was born
March 22, 1927, in Halifax. He
took his early education at LeMarchant St. School and Queen
Elizabeth High where he successfully combined studies and athletics. While one of the leaders
in his classwork he was also efficient in track and basketball, representing the school in each case.
Al graduated from QEH in 44
and embarked on his career in
commerce at Dal in the fall of 44.

 

the S. C. M., and captain of the
high-flying Pine Hill “Holy Terrors’ hockey team, Ross has taken
an active part in Pine Hill activities

A veteran of four years service,
Ross was a Flying Officer Bombardier overseas. Proof of physical
prowess is that he survived throuch
two Commando Courses,

In his first
was on three interfaculty teams,
he also played varsity rugby and

two years at Dal. Al

intermediate basketball. Besides
being proficient in managing and
coaching sports, A) has participated keenly in Glee Club, SCM, and
Student Forums, During his summer vacations he has had a wide
variety ef business experience in
hotel, real estate, and industrial
work.

 

CITIZENS’
FORUM

Tues. has been here and passed
once again and despite the publicity given the Citizens’ Forum
in the last issue of the Gazette,
the attendance numbered only
ten.

Excellent -movies as usual,
started off the program, followed
by the radio broadcast from London, England. The group then
concentrated their atten}ion on
the subject Government, Business,
and Labour—The British Trend.

The first question was thrown
oug of the discussion and the
Forum got down to work, on the
seconl, That question read—Do
you think that, in the present emergency, Great Britain would be
better served by a Coalition Government? It was decided that a
eoalition government would sgpeil
the defeat of the Socialistic id2as
in not only Britain, but in France,
Roumania, etc., *

The remainder of the evening

was taken up with a discussion of
the present attitude of the Amer
ican people toward the Soviet
Union.
The absence of many at the

last two Forums may have been
due to the pressure of studies or
social duties, bat the topics under
discussion certainly warrant more
student interest and participation,
especially from those in Economics and Political Science. Let's
throw aside the of apathy
and wend our way to the Murray
Homestead next Tues., for a lively
discussion on Labour
Relations,

cloak

Canadian

 

CANDIDATES PRESENT PLATFORMS
AT CROWDED STUDENT FORUM

The largest crowd of the year
attended the Students’ Forum in
the Gym last Tuesday at noon to
hear the candidates for studen:
executive positions deliver their
campaign speeches.

Clint Havey, scon to -be entgoing president, opened the meeting, announcing that a plebiscite
wil Ibe held in conjunction with
the forth-coming elections to
tlarify the student opinion of allotting funds from the council
tinking fund, First issue of the
plebiscite will be the allotment of
$5,000 of the sinking fund total
te the university building fand.
Second point of the plebiscite wil]
be the question of money from
the sinking fund for D. A. A, C.

equipment

The meeting was heightened by
the work of the Harry Rhode publicity committee, five girls in abbreviated shorts holding the spotlight for some time as cheers and
rons, boosting the “Arts. anid Sei
ence candidate were presentedto,
and jomed in by, the student andlence

The large turn-out showed
great interest in the campaign
speeches of the Presidential candidates, especially as two surprise
nominees, Allan Kenty and Ross
Hamilton appeared on the stage.
Bill Mingo was the first speaker.

Interest again ran high as the
Vice-Presidential candidates presented their platforms, The Rhude
speech was interrupted by the
playing of an introductory recording, backstage, by the diligent
Arts and Science committee,

The final speeches of the meecting were by the DAAC hopefuls,
Jack Quigley, Bill MeKelvey and
“Windy” O'Neill. Their speseches
were repeathdly interrupted by
heckling from the floor.

At the close af the meeting,
Gordie Hart asked for suggestions for a new president of the

Glee Club.

PES WEEK: «2.60:

Page 1.
Page 2.
Page 3.
Page 4.
Page 5.
Page 6.
Page 7.
Page 8.

ED BY 1.8.5.

 

New Candidates For Prexy

I. S. S. And The Changing World
To Hold Fund Plebiscite

Dal Wins Intermediate

Axmen Overcome Dal

Lost Chords

Arseni And Old Lace

Doig Submits A Budget

NEW CANDIDATES FOR COUNCIL PREXY

 

ISS GROUP

SPONSOR

VIGOROUS CAMPAIGN

be

re
fo

   
 

During the coming week students will have an opportunity to add
to the growing feeling that thie is the greatest year that Dalhousie has

ever seen.

had an extremely successful year.

With the greatest enrolment in history, the University has
We have not been successful in every

venture, but we know that no Dal man went down without e« struggle,
s struggle that left the opponent feeling that he had been in a tough

contest.

COUNCIL
AGENDA

There will be a meeting of the
1946-47 Students’ in the
Murray Homestead at 7:30 p. m.
on Wednesday, March 5, 1947.

AGENDA
1. Election of Freshman Representative on 1947-48 Council.
Consideration of list of Awards
fer 1946-47.
Quarterly

Business

 

Council

™N

report of Gazette

Manager.

4. Report of Gate Receipts Committee.

 

Trial By Jury.....

 

in the climatical few weeks to
weeks for which even the
most severe exam will be an anti
come.

climax, student organizations will

put the finishing touches on our

year. Immediately

preced

ng the week in which falls Mun
roe Day, the International Student Service will complete it
campaign for which it has been
planning for several weeks.
Aiready the activities of the
various girls’ societies have bee}
’ rought to the attentio:
the student body. In the Popty Contest, various societies
have been covering the campu
for votes for their nien. Girls
have stitched the names of their
candidates on everything from
sweaters to kerchiefs. Flags have
been hoisted, rallies have heen
}Aanned, posters have appeared jn
ost unusual places, and every
turns a donation can or
thrust under
Their work demands attention and

where one

box is one’s nose

praise,
More subdued, but no less in
importance is the work engaged

sub-committees of
the Dalhousie group. Ukie Velcoff and Bob MacDougall have
plans well laid for the dance during which the popularity “King”
will be crowned. Dorothy Yatee
and co-workers have been organizing a bridge party which will be
held during the week. Jack Mac
Cormack and his co-workers have
been planning for a tag-day. Red
Lampert and Art Moreira «have
organized the financial end of
the drive. Patty MacKinnon, Scott

in by various

(Continued on Page 8)

 
 

 

mi

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Friday, February 28, 1947

 

CANADA'S OLDEST STUDENT PUBLICATION

 

Editor-in-Chief
AL LOMAS (3-4505)

News Features Sports
RED LAMPERT, P-1 JACK LUSHER DON HARRIS
Literary News Co-Ed Sports
ART MOREIRA LEW MILLER, P-3 FRAN DOANE
Photographer Proofreader Business Manager
DON MORRISON RALPH MacDONALD DON HARRIS
Office Manager JERRY FOSTER

 

REPORTERS AND CONTRIBUTORS THIS WEEK
Bob Grant, Priscilla Raymond, Windy O'Neill, Ken Boite, Al Kenty,

Uhkie Velcoff, Neil McKelvie, Bill Kelly, Fuzz Foster, Ralph MacDonald.

 

Vol. 76

S$. S. And The Changing World

In university circles as in society as a whole, divergent reljgious,
social and political currents have become apparent, which, one and all,
identify themselves with democracy and liberty, showing a most unfortunate tendency to crystalize in regional patterns, creating impenetrable barriers to divide them. ‘“‘Where is the truth?—Who is right?”’
one might ask; and the subsequent search might lead either to blind
intolerance or apathy,—both of which are prevalent everywhere.

Friday, February 28, 1947 No. 17

 

University students in Canada, however, are fortunate; and we at
Dalhousie are particularly fortunate. We are permitted to indulge in
political issues, we are barred from no meetings, we have liberal-minded, tolerant instructors who force no thoughts into our minds,—in genferal, we are free to act and think as we wish, restricted only by the
bounds of decency and right.

Are we, however, taking full advantage of what education can
offer? Are we gaining schooling, and missing the goals that can and
should be achiewed—TRUTH and UNDERSTANDING? Is there any
way that we might destroy intolerance and thus cast aside the dirty veil
of misunderstanding that plunges war-hating nations into combat?

Yes—there is a way, and that way is no mere ideological concept
fostered by idealistic theorists. It is a way that was born of the visions
of teachers and students who, by the fruits of education, were able to
forsee that the continuance of nationalism would create power blocs
of distrust nurtured on hatred and fear. BUT THAT WAY DEPENDS
ON US!

What is this way ? — Founded in 1926, with its headquarters in
Geneva and with representatives From all parts of the world, the International Student Service has grown into one of the most potent weapons of peace and goodwill that the world has ever known; and Canadian
universities have shared greatly in its growth. Where, logically, if not
in universities, should the basic ideals of all great religious teachers and
philosophers be supported?—From where, if not from universities,
should our world’s leaders come?

The world looks to us today for the leadership required to guide
its passage around the sucking, calamitous pitfalls of bigotry and malice,
foul with the stench of wasted humanity.—We can aid—shal!l we?

It is mot for others to decide what we should do to help others.
That decision remains with us; and in making that decision we must remember that our support does not aid only a student in another country,
but it is part of the international spirit of fellowship that must grow and
reach out into every corner of the globe. Surely we have not already
forgotten our most recent global struggle. Surely it is worth while to
do all or anything we can to avert a more destructive war.

Not only within the next week should we remember how fortunate
we are, but forever. Never for a moment should we forget our feelings of obligation and thanksgiving to the Creator who placed us in
this peaceful, plentiful country. If there is anything that we can do,
great or small, let us do it! Learning from our mistakes of yesterday,
let us build a great today for agreater tomorrow!

EDITOR'S MAIL BOX

The Editor,
Tralhousie Gazette,
Dear Sir:—

from Acadia, Mt. Allison and St.
F. X., showing what they spent on
athletics in 1945-46 and have allotted to athletics in 1946-47
With them I quote the corresponding figures for the D. A. A. C.

1945-46 1946-47

A motion waz passed at the
Student Forum on January 28
recommending to the Conncil the
purchase of a large quantity of

athletic equipment, the necessary Acadia $ 3,482.45 4,650.00
funds to be taken from the sur- Dalhousie 4,601.22 . 6,760.48 x
plus accumulated in previous Mt. Allison 4,504.73 6,287.82

years, in addition to the amount St. F. X. 3,629.00 4,606.06

authorized in the current budget. ~*

The Council proposes to refer
the question to the Student Body
in a plebiscite to me held in conjunction with the élections on
March 4.

For the benefit of those who
may be interested, and for whatever the comparison may be
worth, I have obtained figures

As at Jan. 18, when I wrote
to the other universities. Additional sums totalling approximately
$-600.00 have been alloted to the
D. A. A. €, since that time,

Respectfully submitted,
CLINT HAVEY,

President
Council of the Students.

News Of The
WEAK

(OH THOSE TWINS)

There are twins and twins, but
seldom do they come so attractive
and so mystifying identical as
Dalhousie’s set of similar sisters,
Ann and Joan (placed in this order because of “A’s’’ priority in
the alphabet). An imaginative
person can sit through all sorts of
lectures on Chaucer or integral
calculus, chuckling to himself.
thinking of the predicaments that
this lovely pair could cause if they
were inclined to do so.

[t is not difficult to imagine an
occasion when Joan, witha headache, might say, “Ann, would you
keep my date with Bill?—Know
the difference?—Of course he
won't—haven't we fooled him hefore?”

 

[t is reported that one of the
Professors has been thinking o*
making the twins wear. identification tags in his classes because
of some recent embarrassment.
The conversation was similar to
the following:

“Where is Ann today?—asked
the Prof.

“I'm Ann,—Joan is ill.”

“Oh—well I thought Joan sat
there.”’

“I'm sitting in Joan’s seat.”

“Oh—well was Joan the one who
was ill last week?”

“No, Sir,—I was ill last week.”

And as the Professor turned
away, perplexed and amused, he
was heard to say, “After this, I
hope you take ill at
time.”

the same

: . *

A POINT FOR d’ARTAGNAN

Students were slumping lower
and lower in their seats, regretting that the class-room windows
were so high that one’s gaze was
necessarily restricted to a huge
map listing territorial changes
since 1914,

“Le coor doo joon Gascon battay ah looie—* droned a_ student’s voice as he read a passage
from “Les Trois Mousaquetaires.”

“Won't this hour ever end?”
whispered a bewhiskered detester
of “la langue francaise’ to a companion who was equally bored,
but who had the incentitive to
read beyond the class-pace. The
bored student had arrived at a
point in the story where d’Artagnan was fencing with Jussac of
the cardinal’s guards. His eyes
skimmed across the words, and
he read the following passage;
“et, se glissant comm eun scrpent sous un fer, il lui passa son
epee au travers du corps. Jussac
tomb comme une masse.”

A strange gleam came into the
student’s eyes. He lowered his
book to his lap and turned to
glance at his comrade for a brief
second. Suddenly he threw the
book into the air and emitted a
frenzied “Haw—haw.”

The book flopped to the floor,
and the remainder of the students
and the Madame renewed their
interests in life to stare at the
now-raving student.

Seizing an opportunity to escape, the bewhiskered student
grasped his hysterical comrade’s
arm and pulled and dragged him
towards the deor. As the pair
erupted into the corridor, the bewildered remnant of the class
heard a wild, delirious cry echo
and re-echo through the corridors,
—Tooshay—tooshay.’"

= is - >

WHAT'S THAT AGAIN?
“We took up our stand in a
lobby on A Deck, decorated, like
most of the Elizabeth, in 4 shiny
plywood-and-linoleum style.” —
from “The New Yorker.”

 

 
 
    

3 A Ses Ro
tan Cad c
a a a LA eaters < —

icobac

e Pick of Tobacco

aS.
, Ox
RS

“Heat Merchants Since 1835”

S Cunard and Company, Limited

HARD COAL * SOFT COAL
COKE * FUEL OIL

OIL BURNING EQUIPMENT

HALIFAX, N., S.

DARTMOUTH, N. S.

BRYLCREEM

 

 
  

THE PERFECT HAIR DRESSING

® Applied every morning, BRYLCREEM will
keep your hair looking smart and well-groomed
all day long. The natural ous in BRYLCREEM
overcomedandruff and dry scalp, give the hair
a healthy, natural lustre without that greasy
appearance. All druggists sell BRYLCREEM in
the handy, convenient tube. Buy today.

NO GUM-NO SOAP-NO ALCOHOL: NO STARCH

 

4 Say SCHWARTZ

and be sure!

It was a good slogan in war. It is now a good slogan in peace:
“Say Schwartz and be Sure”. We urge it for your protection
that you may be assured of the incomparable Schwartz quality

in Coffee, Spices, Peanut Butter, Jelly Powder, Baking Powder and Dried Fruit.

W.H. Schwartz & Sons Ltd.

Canada’s Oldest Coffee and Spice House
Founded in Halifax in 1841

 

 

Dalhousie University

Halifax, Nova Scotia

 

Largest Staff, Libraries and Laboratories in the Maritimes
The Faculty of Arts and Science
enjoys international distinction

 

Degrees of: Diplomas in: }
Bachelor of Arts Engineering
Bachelor of Science Education
Bachelor of Commerce Music
Bachelor of Music Pharmacy

Master of Arts Hospital Pharmacy

Master of Science Mining Geology ~
Pre-Professional Courses a

Honour and Advanced Courses in many departments

in the B. Sc. course about $210.00 a year

in the B. A. Course average about $160.00 a year

Many valuable scholarships, on entrance and throuch the courses

Regional Scholarships awarded on the result of examinations held in

February in any Maritime school. Special $600.00 scholarships for Hon
our courses in Classics, Mathematics, Modern Languages and History.

The Professional Faculties

Law, Medicine, Dentistry, enjoy an unexcelled reputation.

Inclusive Fees

 

Residences
Women students live in Shirreff Hall — one of the finest Women’s
Residences in the Dominion, Residence is provided for first year men
in the University Men’s Residence. Other men students live in either
of two affitiated institutions or in selected and approved homes.
Special accommodation is provided for married and single ex-service
students,

Meals for all students are available at the University.
For full information write to THE REGISTRAR.

 

 
     

+

on

 

‘COUNCIL PRESIDENT: Allan

GLEE CLUB:
President:

Webster,

Vice- President: Mary Lou Christie.

Secretary: Leah Tremaine.
D. A.A. C.

President: Neil McKelvey; Windy O'Neill; Jack Quigley.
Vice-President: Sonny Carson; Bob Knight; Don MacKeigan.
Secretary-Treasurer: Bob Knickle; Bob Pentz.

COUNCIL REPRESENTATIVES: |

Arta & Science:

Senior Boy: Jack MacCormack; Bob*Willett.

Senior Girl: Marie Milton; Verna Leonard.

Junior Boy: Dave Gillis; Bernal Sawyer.

Junior Girl: Frances Doane; Patty MacKinnon.

Sophomore: Bob MacDonald; Betty Petrie.
Engineering: (two to be elected)

Bill Christie; Bill MacLeod; Al MacDonald; C. K. Steeves.

Law: (one to be elected)
Bill Cox; Claude Dingwall.
Medical: (two to be elected)

Jack Boudreau; Gerald Clayden; George Hill.

Commerce! (one to be elected)

J. R. McKinney; R. A. Watson.

Dentistry:

James D'Arcy (by acclamation)

Pharmacy:

Douglas Stallard (by acclamation)

Delta Gamma:

President: Elsie Cruickshank; Marie Milton.
Secretary-Treasurer: Joyce Cameron; Frances Jubien.

Medical Society:

President: Lawrence Van Blaricom; Ross MacInnis.
Vice-President: Jack Godden; Herb MacWilliam; James Milligan.
Secretary: Bob MacDonald; James Vibert; Bob Webster.
Treasurer: Jim Chambers; Jack Quigley.
With regard to D. A. A. C., Delta Gamma and the Medical Society,
all tie -wotes will be resolved by the executives of the societies con
cerned.

LOCATION OF POLLING BOOTHS:
Law, Medicine, Dentistry, Pharmacy————Lobby of Forrest Bldg.
Arte & Science, Commerce and Engineering————Common Room of

HOURS: 8 a. m. to 6 p. m.

Men's Residence.

BRING YOUR COUNCIL CARD***YOU WILL NEED IT TO VOTE

 

HAMILTON .TO NORWAY

A well known Dal student has been chosen as one of the four Canadian students to attend the World Conference of Christian Youth in
Oslo, Norway, this summer. He is Ross Hamilton, a second year Arts
student. Young people from all over the world will be at Oslo from
July 22 to July 31, to share their faith and experience.

 

Dal Debaters
Trounce Mt A

Opposing the resolution, “Resolved that fraternities should be
active on all university campi,”
the Dalhousie inter-collegiate debating team of Clint Havey and
Mark Yeoman squelched the victorious aspirations of the Mount
Allison team of John Archibald
and Ted Baxter.

Working on the theme that
fraternities add fuel to the racial
discrimination fire, the Dalhousie
eonquerors out-pointed their opponents who maintained that
fraternities are benficial in that
they provide accomodation and
social welfare,

Judges were Mr. J. Dale, Mr.
H, Oxley and Mr, J. E, Richardson

The chairman was Jim Saunders, present Sodales President.

ISS Jottings

The Canadian representative on
the International Student Service
Secretariat, Gerard Pelletier is at
present in Austria distributinz
several tons of food sent by British students.

ov

 

 

*

_ International Student Service

   
 
  
 
 
  

ts that medical students at

While he is in Europe, Ross
will attend a World Student
Christian Federatoin conference
in Lund, Sweden, and a World
Youth Festival held in Prague,

Switzerland, under the auspices
of the Worid Federation of Demo
eratic Youth.

The appointment of Ross as a
Canadian delegate to these meetings has the unanimuos approval
of all who know him. Further
evidenee of the esteem with which
he is held is the fact that he is
one of the candidates for the office
of president of the Student's Council in the forthcoming election.

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

SOUNC : Kenty; Rose Hamilton; Bill Mingo.
COUNCIL VICE-PRESIDENT: Ken Matthews; Harry Rhude; Bob

LED, AIP, 7

Pe

CANADA'S

   
  

> a

OLDEST STUDENT

    

SS en |

  

Page Three

PUBLICATION

 

New Officers
For Sodales

Feb. 18—In the Sodales annual
meeting, Whitney Dalrymple was
elected to preside over Dalhousie
debating functions for the coming
term. Supporting the president

_ will be vice-president, Bob Kaill;

secretary-treasurer, Ivan Cormier:
and publicity manager, Colin
Smith.

The out-going president, Jim
Saunders, read the financial statement for the past year which was
adopted by the meeting.

Professor Cummings was unanimously chosen by the Sodales to
lead it as their Honorary President; and Professor Milner and
Mr. Foster to act as Faeulty Advisors.

The annual report was read by
Al Blakeney and adopted after
much discussion.

Hands Across

The Sea For
Con Shield

In competition for the Connoly
Shield for one-act plays at Dalhousie, the Arts and Science
Society, on Saturday night, preceded the main Glee Club prodaction, with Noel Coward's
“Hands Across The Sea.”

Directed by Peter Donkin, the
cast included Gene Machum, Terry
MacKay, Joan Macleod, George
Burchill, Peter Alward, Bill Kelly,
Ethel Garson, Bernie Creighton
and Connie Conrad.

In an address following the
play, Prof. Bennett, the adjudieator for the Connoly Shield

plays, explained that, although it
lacked the subtletly of professional performances, it quite definitely fulfilled that which Capt.
Connoly had in mind when he
presented the shield to the University—to acquaint the student
with the unreal life of the stage.
and in so doing, prepare him for
the real life which he must face.

Of “Hands Across The Sea” as
presented by the Arts & Science
Society, Prof. Bennett added that
the cast was “in the running” for
the award.

Council To Hold
Fund Plebicite

It has been proposed to earmark $5,000 of the accumulated surplus
for a donation towards the University campaign, such sum to be used

for student purposes to be determined
University and the Student Body after the campaign is

approve?

This question will be settled by
a plebiscite of students to be held
on election day.

Within the past term, and probably for years past, there have
been many discussions about the
disposal of the yearly surplus

funds that have been set aside
and tucked away by previous
Students’ Councils into what is
known at Dal as the “Sinking
Fund.”

It is understandable that stndents regret seeing their money
hoarded in an ever-growing doffer, with no plan or purpose in
sight for its disposal; and it is
understandable that they should
ask the question, “For What?”

And this is the question that
our out-going Council has decided to answer by placing a plebiscite before us

This most recent suggestion
seems worthy and wise, and, if
acted upon, one that would be of
permanent service for students of
the fature. If at least half of the
present fund of $10,000 were
donated by the student body to the
eurrent University drive for
funds, it would not only add impetus to the drive, but it would

Political Rally

TIME: 8.15 Thursday, 6th of
March.

PLACE: Chem Theatre.
SPEAKERS
Progressive Conservative: To

be announced later.
Liberal: Mr. Rutledge, local

Member Provincial Legislature.

Cc. C. F.: Lloyd Shaw, Provincial Field Director.

The audience may question the
speakers. .

The meeting is open to all,

VICE—PRESIDENTIAL NOMINEES

 

 

HARRY

RHUDE

BOB WEBSTER

im consultation between the
over.-- Do you

be our memorial to students who
may make use of the present
hoarded wealth.

If the plebiscite decides in
favor of this proposal, controlling
reins for disposal of the donation
will be held by future student
bodies until the University finalizes its building plans.

It is left to each and every one
of us to decide waht should be
done with the fund; and if no
better suggestion than the preceding is offered, it is urged that
in the plebiscite to be held on
election day, this suggestion be
adopted.

 

Electioneering
Stunts Start

Initiating an electioneering
campaign for what had threatened to be a ‘dead’ election, the
Arts & Science supporters of
Harry Rhude for Council VicePresident, introduced a novel
stunt in Dalhousie campaigning.

Students entering the gym for
Friday night’s performance of
“Trial by Jury” discovered leaflets on their chairs bearing a short
biography of Harry Rhude. Fuollowing the performance and the
removal of the chairs, on a prearranged signal, hundreds of leaflets fell from the girders of the
zym. Each leaflet bore a campaign poem. Minutes later, sheets

were passed around on which
were written words which were
sung to the tune “John Brown's
Body”, urging students to vote

for Harry Rhude.

TRIAL BY JURY
IS EXCELLENT

“lI hope that we shall develop
the same ability as you at Dal to
produce good as
your “Trial By Jury”, said Sergei
Duckett, president of the St. F.

something as

X. Musie Appreciation Society
following Saturday Night's per
formance of the Gilbert & SulliVan operetta.

One of five visiting members
of the St. F. X. society, Sergei
stated that they had visited to
pick up ‘tips’ that might help
them in their work.

The St. F. X. Music Appreciation Society meets weekly with
reguiar attendances of from
eighty to one hundred stndents,
almost one quarter of the university enrolment; and it is their
custom to itmvite name artists to
their university. Within the next
month, for instance, the “St,
Louis Sumphonetta” will visit St.
FX.

The society is desirious of cooperating with similar societies at
Dalhousie University.

 
 

— = 
a = 7
— a o / - — - ——— -—— — rs —« in a = ae
=)
73 a 7*
7

 

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE Friday, February 28, 1947

Page Four

 

DAL WINS INTERMEDIATE TITLE |

The Dalhousie Tigers defeated King’s 43-23 at the Stadacona Gym.
Friday night and advanced into the city finals against Stadacona Navy.
By their win the Tigers copped the Halifax City Intermediate League
title and throughout both the regular schedule and the playoffs they

 

On The
SIDELINES

Wath Bob Tuck

      

  

SES Sa Skt Se J

The cherubic countenance and wise sayings of maestro Don Harris
do not appear this week due to an unfortunate indisposition that puts
him on the sidelines in a literal as well as a figurative sense, Mr. Harris
has failen victim to the ‘flu. [t woes without saying that we wish him
@ speedy recovery and an early return to his page four pastime of
stirring up controversy.

* & e ood .

It was a rollicking hockey game at the Arena Friday evening even
if it wasn’t a particularly good one. After a listless performance
against Tech the Tigers rebounded with plenty of fight if not plenty
of goals. At times the Dal forwards looked as if they had never been
introduced to their linemates, but defencemen like Bobby Wade and
Windy O'Neill didn’t wait for anything formal like that as they bumped

«men all over the ice, That is, when they could catch them. It was
about the only expedient the Dal defencemen could use because the
fast-breaking, sharp passing Antigonishers were in on Timothy before
the defencemen could get back. Rowlie Frazee followed the trend and
despairing of stopping th St. F. X. attacks, led some of the most
dangerous Dol attacks. The final goal of the game was scored in this
manner. Rowlie brought the puck up the ice, planted it on Dave
Churehilil-Smith’s stick, who dodged a check and passed to Knickle.
Bob sifted through and planted the disc behind MacDonald for his
third goal. It was a clean game and arbiter Pete Mill dished out only
three penalties. That hulking bully, Angie Reid. drew one for boarding

 

RUGGLES PRITCHARD. “Pritch”’
shot twelve points as the Tigers
bowed to Stadacona Navy Monday night and was tied with Coe
of Navy for leading scorer. His
accurate long shots and spectacular play on the floor helped keep
the Tigers in the game.

Dal Girls
Edge Kings

The Dal Senior Tigresses scored
another victory Monday night in
the Gym. when they defeated the
King’s team 29-23 in the first
game of a best of three series for
the City Senior title.

Both teams were very evenly
matched with the score at_ half
time 16-15 in Kiing’s favor. The
Tigresses showed improvement in

didn’t lose a game.

D.G.A.C.

Interclass archery was completed last Tuesday evenifig, leaving badminton and ping pong the
only sports to be played off. Estelle Saunders and Elsie Coleman
ended up with the highest score,
giving the Seniors their second
interclass victory. The Juniors
finished second in archery, Sophs.
third and Freshettes fourth.

The swimming team experienc:
ed their first trip this past week,
when they travelled to Acadia for
an exhibition meet.

 

Dal Co-eds’ Varsity team showed some fine spirit last Monday in
the first of the best two out of
three games vs. King’s Co-eds for
the Senior City League title.

The second Intercollegiate game
with Acadia will take place here
in the gym on Saturday at 3.
Both the Varsity and Intermediate
teams will be playing, It will be
tough for Dal all the way, but the
gals expect to put up a much
better show than the one at Acadia.
Both of our teams must win by a
margin of about 18 points, i. e. 9

baskets, to win the series over

King’s kept the game close in
the first half and the lead changed hands several times. Careful
checking by the Kingsmen kept
the heavy Dal artillery in check
and in this phase of the game Kirk
Adams was especially efficient.
Dunlop for Dal and Ferguson of
King’s led their respective teama
offensive thursts in this half.

In the second half the Tigers
broke loose and swept through
the King’s defence. Dal had amassed an eight point lead just before
the end of the first half, and
promptly proceeded to enlarge it
as the second stanza got underway. Farquhar, who had been held
scoreless by the King’s checking
in the first half, started to roll in
points, partly because he got a
lot of free tosses awardel tc him
on which he was exceedingly accurate. The Dal guards snared
rebounds and sent their forwards
off down the floor on fast breaks.
King’s tried to slow the game
down, but couldn’t halt the Tigers
attack. Final score was 43-25, and
Dunlop with twenty points was
high seorer. Ferguson with eight
was leading King’s sharpshooter
On guard, Giffen for Dal and
Adams for Kings were’ outstanding.

St eae, & ) ; "adis t's hard to tell how it
some meek X-man, and strange to relate, St. F. X. didn’t score while making quick and accurate passcs. cae , a ri . n’t let
. . . } < ‘nh out, Dut ai wo
he was off. Bob Wade also got the gate in the last period for a part- Pat Snuggs led for Dal with ten 7 ; a wh t Nova Scotia
o - . . - aAtdiiz ts tna > vs OL Ses * od e0e5 4 é Fee e, smh
icularly exhuberant checking effort. The old lamp-lighter, Windy Peints and displayed accurate a ies rons Six hundred and fifty students
"Nai = . shooting She was closely followed “UG WHHOUS & Behe ; t ake 540 XaminaO'Neill played a lot of hockey and was the only defenceman who could ung ; Another hig game coming up @* able to take 5400 e

skate with the Antigoniish forwards. A lot of ice has passed under
Windy’s skates in the past couple of weeks. The final score was
13-5 for St. F. X. [t gets better every year. Last year St Francis Xavier
beat Dal 23-5,

* v * * *

The baskethall Tigers surprised no one and waltzed off with the

by Marg. O'Neill with nine points
and Fran Doane had eight.
Marg. Thomas tied with Pat
Snuggs for leading scorer with
ten points, although watched
closely by the Dal guards, Joyce
Hart had eight points, Nancy
Jones five and Ann Harrington

is the second between Dal Varsity
and King’s for the Senior City
title, to be played on Wednesday,
March 5 in the gym at 7 p. m. If
the Tigresses cop this game, it
will mean the championship for
them. If the game goes to King’s,

 

tions this spring at the Milan University through the efforts of International Student Service who
established a student foyer and
stocked it with a circulating library
of 1000 books and 1700 sets of

 
   
 

City Intermediate League Title at Stad., Friday night by defeating tars. a third game will have to be mimeographed lecture notes.
, Kings by a large margin. The Tigers didn’t lose a game through regular _ Dal: Kon. (5 g. p (Continued on page 5)
schedule and the playoffs, and left many disgruntled and badly beaten fi he 10° M a 1] a) Finest Quality
opponents along the way. By the time this appears, the Tigers will have ie at te — Betty a is
played the winners of the Senior loop, the Navy entry, for the City Elsie Fesitctamca te. ae race’ Oxford Theatre SPORTS EQUIPMENT

Championship. This will be a real test, but the way the Tigers have
been going lately, they must rule as favorites to win. Two exhibition
games were played with the Navy earlier in the season, in which Dal

Hayes; Verna Leonard, Syb Pentz.
Kings: Joyce Hart 8; Nancy
Jones 5; Marg Thomas 10; Barb

Mon. & Tues.

{ gained a split. However the Tigers were without their high scoring
7 ; : ; Smith, M N an, adforward Eddie Rogers, and with him to help his potent linemates, oe ee eee ee eee ES ea
| Dunlop and Farquhar, the Tigers stand a very good chance. Ba ERD: eat SESE ae ° : * » : Wed. & Thur.

 

The inovation of the week, of course, was girl’s hockey. The rules
are the same as in the orthodox brand of the game and it is an equally
good spectacle to watch. The first game was played at the Forum Satorday afternoon and there were a goodly number of curious males
present to view the proceedings. After skating the length of the rink
several times, the Dal girls emerged, battered but triumphant with a
7-3 win over the Maritime Tel. and Tel. The girls who say ‘‘number
please” held the Tigresses until the last period when they were outplayed and outscored 5-1. The girls displayed fine form and Nancy
Jones with 4 goals was the leading sharpshooter. Some of her shots
even left the ice a little as she let them go. Several members of the
Dal Varsity hockey team whose sweaters the girls wore, were present
and undoubtedly picked up many useful pointers.

ee oa e ” .

Joyful Jackson Lusher just strode into the GAZETTE office with
a toothy grin smeared across his handsome face and announced to the
startled assemblage present that the stout beys of Arts & Science had
just overcome the hitherto undefeated stalwarts of Pine Hill in an Interfaculty hockey game. The score was 3-0. The cellar-dwelling Studleyites, backed by the stout netminding of Mac Cochran, provided the
upset of the season by defeating the Pine Hillers. Lusher himself contributed to the cause (we won't say whose) by getting a penalty. Several weeks ago he got a goal and no doubt felt he should get a penalty
to go with it. However, even without Lusher these Interfac hockey contests are well worth seeing if you can’t actually take part.

c = © + a

What's Going on Elsewhere: The St. F, X. hockey team that beat
Dal 18-6 will play the A. P. C. League winner for the right to advance
in the N. S. Senior playdowns .. . Acadia edged Tech 20-18 at Wolfville in basketball... .. But Mt A defeated Acadia twice in a home and

home exhibition series 54-26 and 32-21.. .. .. .. Mt. A. in their first hockey game, beat Amherst Legionairres 3-1 .. .. .. .. St. F. X. took a hockey
basketball doubleheader from Acadia last week-end.

(INCREDIBLE!)

A recent birth-notice in a Halifax newspaper prompted the research which unearthed the following caption of an A. P. wirephoto. Your guess is as good as
mine) “BLIZZARD BABY—tTeriAnn, Cleveland’s ‘blizzard baby,”
Bhown above wifh ther mother,
Mrs, Harry Zellman, will be two
years old Sunday. The child was
born in the snow in a hospital
parking lot unnoticed by her
father and mother, who collapsed
as she stepped from an antomobile.”’

CASINO

AN ODEON THEATRE

STARTING SAT.

BEDELIA

with

MARGARET LOCKWOOD
and

Tan Hunter Anne Crawford

 

BLACK BEAUTY
Carribean Mystery
Fri. & Sat.

Rhapsody in Blue
HOT CARGO

*s5,° .
~~
ar
oe
ra
Lo ie
Ore
<<

. °
oe

  
 
    
  
 
    
 

 

456 Barrington St.

PLUS TAX

 

aT ye.
FASTEST SELLING
CIGARETTE TOBACCO

 

 
>A

 

[i>

es; j

Friday, February 28, 1947

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Page Five

 

TIGERS OVERCOME BY X-MEN 13
KNICKLE AND O’NEILL

STAR IN LOSING GAME

The St. F. X. hockey machine had too much experience and finesse
for the Dal Tigers at the Forum Friday evening as they handed the
Bengals a 13-5 defeat. St. F. X, scored the first three goals, but two
tallies in less than a minute put Dal right back in the game. However,
the visitors scored two quick ones and Dal never came close again.

McGillvray, Campbell and Lyons
led the St. F. X. offensive and for
Dal Bob Knickle scored three.
Windy O'Neill worked hard on
defence. The Tigers showed best
in the last period and split a brace
of goals with the X-men. Timothy
had 42 shots to handle, (by periods; 15, 14 and 13) while Rollie
MacDonald had 26 (by periods; 6,
8 and 10). Only three penalties
were called by referee Pete Mill,
two against Dal.

SUMMARY:
First Period
1. St. F. X.—MacGillvray (Cam
pbell) 2.25

2 Se. F. X,—Campbell
Intyre) 6.44

3. St. F. X. MacIntyre (Lyons)
8.55

4. Dal—Wade (Churchill-Smith)

S. Dal—Knickle, 10.55

6. St. F. X.—MacIntyre (Camp
bell) 11.57
Se. F. X.—MacGillvray (Mac
Intyre) 12.20

8. Dal.—Reid (O'Neill) 14.12

9. St. F. X.—Campbell (MacIntyre) 17.58
Penalty: Baldwin

16.27

(Mac
7.

(hooking)

Third Period :
10. St. F. X.—MacGillvray, 1,55
12. St. F. X.—Campbell, 1,22
12. St. F. X,—Chaissau (Cleary)
4.45
13, St. F. X.—MacGillvray,
11.10
14. Dal. — Knickle
Churchill-Smith) 11.34
15. St. F. X.— Lyons
Intyre, Campbell) 14.18
16. St. F. X.—Lyons (Campbell)
18,39
Penalty: Reid (boarding) 12.09
Third Period
17. St. F. X. — Lyons 2,05
18.—Dal. — Knickle (ChurchillSmith, Frazee) 4.45
Penalty: Wade (tripping) 14.01

(Brown,

( Mac
 

Girls Beat
Tel Team 7-3

A spectacular closing drive
which brought five goals in the
last period, gave Dalhousie’s Coeds a 7-3 victory over the telePhone girls in a hockey (?) game
at the Forum Friday. The girls
were spurred on to Victory by a
crowd as large as the one that

saw the Tigers absorb a 13-5 licking from St. F. xX.

The score was tied at the end
of the second period 2-2. Nancy
Jones had shot both the Dal goals
in the first period, and the girls
from the other end of the telephone scored the only goal of the
second period.

The third period had not been
long underway when Nancy Jones
had scored her third and fourth
goals and the Tigresses were never
caught. Two goals by Fairlie Prouse
and one by Polly Philips sewed up
the game for the girls. Jean Mitchell put her ground-hockey experience to g00d use in the nets.
Patty MacKinnon on defence wearing Windy O’Neill’s No. 17 sweater looked almost as good as Thomas
himself although certainly not of
a similar build. The word fast
could certainly not be used to describe the girl's hockey, but the
brilliance of the passing plays no
doubt made up for this. Everyone, even maybe the girls enjoyed the spectacle and maybe as
soon as the combatants have recovered from the effects of the
game we will see another girl’s
hockey game.

 

TIGERS LOSE TO STAD
IN RAGGED GAME

Stadacona Navy upset the Dalhousie Tigers 35-30 at the Gym
Monday night and went one game
up in their best of three series
for the City Championship. The
Tigers, with considerable help
from a large crowd, tried hard but
lacked the spark that has been
present for the past few games.
When they weren't tripping over
the ball they were tripping over
their own feet. Their shooting,
with the exception of a few long
shots early in the game, notably
by Pritchard, was poor.

The first half ended with Dal
enjoying a slim 18-16 lead. The
lead changed several times during
the half, and the Navy shooting
was about on a par with the poor
Dal efforts. Coe, who came up
from his guard position to pot 6
points was the leading scorer of
the half. Dunlop and Rogers led
the Tigers.

The first few minutes of the
second half continued to be fairly
even, but after Giffen had shot a
foul, the visitors scored eight
points in a row and went out in
front 28-23 and were never headed.

Dunlop brought the Tigers within

foul shot, but a clever Navy defence stopped the Tigers almost
cold. Pritchard shot the two last
Dal points.

Lineups:

DAL: Dunlop 7; Pritchard 12;
Farquhar 4; Levine,. Rogers 7;
Giffen 1; Morrison, Morrow.

STAD.: Coe 12; Deakin 8; Seppale 5; Heath 8.

D.G.A.C.

(Continued from Page 4)
arranged.

If the Dal-King's students show
as much enthusiasm on Saturday
and Wednesday as they did at
Monday’s game, there'll be no
complaints on the part of the
Tigresses.

Congrats, to the hockey team.
You certainly showed your stuff:
quite a surprise to the boys, no
doubt, but they might as well
learn sbout these things someday.

 

 

CAMPUS
ROU NDUP

(By WINDY O'NEILL.)

With the aid of two cases of
Zubes, the Dal Glee Club scored
again with ‘Trial By Jury”, to
finish off a successful season.
Some student critics think that
this effort was the best, but for
my liking I'll take their rendition

of “Twelfth Night”. No small
part of the credit goes to its
hard-working president, Gord

Hart, who deserves a hearty vote
of thanks from all Dal students.

Geoffrey Payoff (pronounced
Payzant) was the man behind the
vocal chord section, and took a
suspiciously well executed bow.
Frank Padrowski (pronounced
Padmore) led the vastly improved Dal symphonic group which
now finish together. After the
dance, the Gilbert and Sullivan
devotees, doffed theiir frock coats
and hoop skirts, to indulge in some
gymnastic gyrations to the sweet
and hot of Don “Caledonia’”’
Warner (pronounced Warner),
the pride of Shirreff Hall.—-If
this year’s example is followed up,
Dal’s reputation for music and
dramatics is certain to become
widespread.

What I would like to know, is
—why-hasn’t Fuzz “Gillette”
Foster been chosen as a candidate
for King of the Campus. He has
grown the most luxuriant beard
since Monte Woolley, and without
the aid of hangover. Fuzz can
now, not only kiss his girl, but can
brush her teeth and whisk her
coat at the same time. When the
eurrent Foster flame was asked
about the foliage, she said, “Why,
I’m just tickled to death.’

oy > > ©

Somewhere in these pages
there is a letter from the President
of the Student’s Council, stating
that a plebiscite will be held as to
whether Dal will improve the athletic situation or not. With this,
we suspect as a guide, is the list
of expenditures of other colleges
for athletics. Thus it is shown that
Dal is right up with the leaders,
spending more than most. The
letter neglects to list comparative
registrations, which would show
Dal having twice as much as most.
Two questions are pertinent—l.
Is the situation satisfactory? 2.
Why the sinking fund? Also, instead of voting half the money
to the building fund, why not
spend it to buy stands for the
gymnasium and to put a fence
dround the athletic. field—these
are urgent needs.

N.G.H Beat

Dal Juniors

The Dal Junior basketball team
was within hailing distance of the
visiting New Glasgow High School
aggregation at half time but from
then on there was only one team
in the game as the Pictou Countyites romped off with a 42-25 win.

Bob MacNeil was the leading
scorer of the game with fourteen
points and team mate Wilkie
Taylor had ten. For Dalhousie
Fran’ Rogers had 12 points and
Jim Morrow shot 8. After they
had become accustomed to the
strange floor and acquainted with
the play of their opponents the
visitors were in little danger, Bill
MacDonald also played a smart
game for New Glasgow.

DAL: Kenty 1, Kerr, D. Rogers

 

INTERFAC NEWS

Hockey —

ARTS & SCIENCE 3,

PINE HILL o
Arts & Science climbed out of
the cellar and into third place
with a smashing upset win over
Pine Hill. Paul Lee contributed
two goals to the Studleyites cause
and Harry MacDonald contributed one. Cochran in the Arts &
Science nets had the answer to
anything the Pine Hillers threw
at him and was the main factor

in Pine Hill's first defeat.

 

ENGINEERS 3, MEDS. 2

Engineers edged Meds in a
close but ragged game to consolidate their grip on first place in
Section “A”, Don Isnor got the
winning goal, his second of the
game, in one of the best plays of

the afternoon. The game was
marked by rough play and frayed
tempers, Fimal score—3-2 for
Engineers,

 

DENTS 7, FROSH 4

Dents defeated Frosh 7-4 at the
Arena Tuesday and climbed over
the Freshmen into place,
Morris shot three goals for the
winners and this together with
the steady goaltending of Hirsch
provided the margin for the Dents.
Bert also had two goals for Dents
while Dexter and MacDonald shot
singletons. For the lisers Fougere
had two and Frederick and MacDonald contributed one apiece.

& tn oo
third

KING'S 0, COMMERCE 0o

Kine’s outplayed Commerce by
a wide margin at the Arena Tuesday but their scoring efforts broke
time and time again against the
stout and spectacular net-minding
of Bliss Leslie in the Commerce
cage. And at the other end of the
rink Doug Troop had the answer
to everything thrown at him. Thus
the game ended in a scoreless tie.
Leslie made 25 saves and Troop
made 7.

 

DENTS HOLD FORMAL DANCE

Marking a revival of social activities in the Dental Faculty, the
Dental Society held their first
formal ball at the Nova Scotia
Tuesday, Feb, 25, 1947. About
50 couples were in attendance and
it was agreed by all that a most
enjoyable time was had.

A feature of the dance marked
the introduction to the guests, of
Miss Irene Robinson, President of
the D. G. A. C., who will be the
Dental candidate in the coming
“Campus Queen" contest on Monroe Day

The Chaperons were Dean Wood
bury, Mrs. R. P. Woodbury, Mrs.
S. J. Bagnall, and Dr. and Mrs.
Dobson.

—————_—$_$_—$—$_$_

Students under D. V. A. whose
benefits will normally expire between May 1, 1947 and May tI,
1948, and WHO HAVE NOT
BEEN SO NOTIFIED BY D. VY.
A. are requested to inform the
Office of the Veteran Adviser.

 

3, F. Rogers 12, J. Morrow 8, McCurdy, MacDonald 1.

N, G. H.: MacNeil 14, Taylor
10, Weddin 4, MacDonald 9, Love,
Weir, MacKay, Connoly 2, Murray 3

Basketball

LAW 59, Dents 40

Law completed their regular
schedule in the Interfac Basketball League when they trimmed
Dents 59-40. It was Law’s third
win in their last four starts. After
a flying start, the issue of the
game was never much in doubt as
Law outscored Dents 31-19 in the
first and 28-21 in the last half.

LAW: Hatfield 6, Matthews 4,
Roddam 18, Bell 4, Smith 4, Grant
4, Hart 13, Hickman 2.

DENTS: Guam, D’Arcy 9, McMurdo 10, Peters 13, Cook 8,
Pentz, Banks.

COMMERCE 62, LAW 36

In their best display of the
season, Commerce ran wild in the
first half to score an upset 62-36
victory over Law. It was the worst
triming the highly rated lawyers
had absorbed in their 13 league
games, Frank Rogers was the individual star for Commerce as he
piled up 22 points.

LAW: Grant 4, Matthews 19,
Bell 10, MocKeivie, .Hickman 4,
Roddam 8.

COMMERCE: Kenty 13, Rogera
Kerr 7, James 8, Mont 12.

ns

ARTS & SCIENCE 54, DENTS 31
Arts & Science came through

> ;
Wita

their second straight win

when they trounced the lucklesa
Dents 54-31.

Arts & Science: MeCurdy 13,

~

Gillis 8, MacKenzie 2,
4, Knight 4, James 3.

Dents: D’Arcy 14, Banks, MeMurdo, Peters 10, Cook 7, Gaum,
Dubinsky, White.

MacLeod

FROSH 50, DENTS 32

Frosh gained their fifth victory
against seven defeats when they
defeated the cellar dwelling Dents
64-31. Carson and Wilson led the
Frosh attack with 15 points each.
Peters was high man for Denta
with 17.

Frosh: Himmelman 8, Carson
15, Wilson 15 Crosby 4, James 8,

Dents: Peters 17, McMurdo,
D'Arcy 5, Cook 4, Banks, Pentz.

ARTS & SCIENCE
ENGINEERS 45

Coming from behind in the last
half, Arts & Science came through
with an upset 50-45 victory over
the second place Engineers. Trailing 22-16 at the end of the first
half the Arts & Science squad
outscored the “Shacksters” 34-26
in the final half,

Arts & Science: MacKenzie 5,
James 2, Gillis 4, Shatford 11,
McCurdy 14, Bugs MacKenzie,
Knight 6, MacLeod 8,

Engineers: Bauld 6, Duff 14
Morrow 6, MacWilliams 5, Rogere
16, Smith 14.

50

ENGINEERS 32, MEDS 27
Meds went down to their second
loss of the season when they wero

defeated by the ‘Boilermakers’
$2-27. Although they made a
spirited rally in the final halg

they failed to overcome the 190
point lead which the Engineers
had piled up in the early minutea
of the game.
. Engineers: Rogers 15, Merrow
smByt Moe ‘9 pineg ‘P gud ‘9
1, Hubley, Smith.

Meds: Deacon 8, Moffat, MacWilliams, Epstein, Cox 9, Roy 2,
MacLean 5, Ashley 3.

 
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
 

OST CHORDS

As the last of the failing line of Gazette critics with whase vicissitudes I have been closely associated over the last year, J am somewhat
at a loss for words concerning the Glee Clab’s latest production. My
discomfort is partly due to am uneasy feeling that I shall be stabbed
in the back by various letters to the Editor, which letters will proclaina
Against me with <elf-righteousness wrath, saying that I have erred
against the chosen of the Lord, and vigorously steering the praise in
the directions which they (for reasons known only to themselves) coasider to be the right ones. “Offering bouquets,” 1 have heard it called.

‘Personally, I distrust this “bouquet” business. To me it smacks of a
profound aesthetic and intellectual stagnancy, and also betrays an
uneasy inferority tomplex when we must bandy published compliments
and reassure each other as to our excellence. The Glee Club does not
need rather doubtful bolstering in the columns of this publication; it is
probably better aware of its value than any one else, and with good
Yeason. Wherefore, when I fail to mention so-and-so who helped to
move chairs, the fine work done by this-and-that committee ‘ beforehand or whoever kindly lent what, let no dogs bark, These are matters
or which I am not informed, and which the finished product alone, as
it appeared on Friday and Saturday, which was exceedingly good.

The performance moved with an easy flow which gave it a smoothness not always present in productions of this type. It showed evidence,
in spite of its rather reckless nature, of a considerable amount of careful practice and able direction. There were no weak spots to interrupt
its progress, and, on the other hand, no especially spectacular places
which might have detracted from the merits of the others; the odd slip
here and there, of one sort or another, went almost unnoticed. It was
also fairly intelligible, which was perhaps due in part to the presence
of microphones; the Glee Club’s battle with the Gym acoustics has
always fascinated me, and they seem to have been fairly successful in
this round.

There were, of course, inevitable slips; it would be unfair to allow
for anytning else. The ~pening chorus might have been made a little
élearer since it explains the plot to the ignorant thereof, and I am not
Sure that the audience bothers to read the typed resumes thoughtfully
provided by the Glee Club. The characters might have been in less of
a@ hurry at times; few of them bothered to wait for the applause to end
at times when it was feasible. One thing I thought unnecessary was
that the Judge was accompanied at times by what sounded like a trumpet. These, however, are very minor points, which detracted very litule
from the merits of the operetia.

The beautiful thing about Trial by Jury, and similar stage pieces,
is the fact that they are simply a lot of fun, requiring neither great
dramatic ability nor strong voices to produce. There were no particularly strong voices on Friday and Saturday, ner any weak ones; the
strongest point of the production was, in fact its homogeneity, its teamwork and steadiness, The outstanding performers were, of course, the
soloists, but they were no better as such than the lesser members of
the cast were in their respective positions. This, in my opinion, contrib‘ted very greatly to the success of the show. I hate unwarranted
scene-stealing of the type which might have resulted from a contrast
of weak and strong voices in important roles.

_ If there were any “‘stars,”’ they were probably Lloyd Soper as the
Judge and Jean Parker as the Plaintiff. Mr. Soper gave an excellent
Portrayal of the susceptible but unscrupulous magistrate, and paid more
attention to the acting of it than any other members paid to theirs,
- His enunciation was a gocd-deaj clearer.than that of the others, in spite
of the remote position the bench placed him in. Miss Parker was exceedingly food atthe Plaintiff; she was perhaps more interested in
singing than in conveying the words clearly, which is to be expected in
the Gym. Roy DeYoung as the Counse! for the Plaintiff did a very capable job indeed. He hed the advantage of possessing the strongest voice
sf the male members of the cast, and used m well. He was perhaps
somewhat too solemn at times, but otherwise excellent.

The Defendant (Maynard Taylor) and the Usher (Bob Smith)
made yery respectable contributions to a successful night—that is, two
nights. The former seemed a trifle unaware of the predicament he was
if, but played a good philanderer. The Usher also did very well.

The various associates, bridesmaids, barristers and attorneys contributed successfully to the general confusion required for Gilbert and
- Sullivan, and the singing of the Public was very creditable.

The Jory might have been slightly less unruly, but that is merely
& Matter of opinion. Ably led by Mr. Pauley, they were the funniest
part of the cast. Hiding his light under a bushel] of jurors I noticed a
Mephistophelian Mr. Payzant; as. I understand it, he was the director
of the production. J] take the liberty to congratulate him.

The orchestra has advanced tremendously this year, and were in
good form op both nichts. I extend my felicitations to Mr. Padmere
on what looks like the culmination ef a two year’s battle for a conccrt
orchestra at DaJhousie. The result of his ‘hard work is extremely edifying. A. M.

we

 

told the court he was “not a
British subject, but a Canadian.”’

© CANADA

Henry and H, M. Doreen, who insisted that a Peace River district
dance be closed with “O Canada”
instead of “God Save the King”,
were fined $10 and costs or two
months in jail in police court today, They were convicted of
breating a disturbance. Henry

 

Canadian delegates of Interfatienal Studegt Service found
when touring Czechoslovakia that
students are required by law to
work in government sponsored
projects during the summer in
order to obtain the government
university grant in the winter.

| TP
+ fe ocall a 7" "

a ed

 

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Purple Cow

I saw a verse the other day
That I would call a classic;

I took it to my Prof., and say,
His look was acid, brassic.

“You call this poetry?” he howled,

Round in his chair a-turning,

And ‘neath his bushy eyebrows
scowled

’Til both my ears were burnine.

“Why this is nothing but a rhyme,

No sense, no thought, no reason,

The man who wrote the stuff’s a

mime,
He should be shot for treason.”

He railed and ranted, tore his hair,

And half aloud swore grimly;

'Til through the haze I do declare

I could but see him dimly.

A cloud of blue from where he sat,
From where the Prof. was seated,

Throughout the room did permeate,
And vision half deleted.

At last his words coherent grew

And then I heard him plainly

With statement loud proclaim he
knew

That poetry was mainly

Composed of truth, of love, of
light,

Had order strict prosodic,

Its day was clear and cool, its
night

Was somewhat more melodic

But things composed of myth or
fake

That never were or can be

To poetry you cannot make

However much you bandy.

Just then a farmer drove a cow,
A milk-white cow to water,
And I #an never tell you how

The prof’s eye fell and caught her.
Within his vision through the haze

(Twas deeper now than bluish).
He half upon his seat did raise,
His look was surely newish.

He whirled and to the window ran,
And wide he threw the casement—

I sat like a dumbfounded man
And wondered what the race
meant.

Soon switched he on the ‘lectric

fan
And beat the air around him.
I wondered what about the man
Could in his mind surround him.

At last he seemed to settle down
And o’er his desk be bended,

A gentle smile replaced the frown
As though a break were mended.

So picked he up the thing anew,
The verse I had submitted,

And slowly read the whole thing

through
While chuckles intermitted:

“T néver saw a purple cow;
T never hope to see one;

But I can tell you anyhow,
I’d sooner see than be one.”’

‘OMHPOS.

—_———

COAL OR DIAMOND

A diamond is pure carbon,
the same substance as coal but
there the resemblance ends.

The compact structure of a
diamond is responsible for its
enduring hardness and extreme
brilliancy.

HENRY BIRKS & SONS
LIMITED

Registered Jeweller,
American Gem Society
Halifax, N. S.

 

Friday, February 28, 1947

Socialism vs Democracy

Historians may argue that socialism is on its way, but if it is, it
must inevitably result in the destruction of democracy.

As was mentioned in an article in the GAZETTE a few weeks ago,
there are two alternatives in a socialist system—autocratic socialism
under a dictator, and democratic socialism under the contro] of parliament. The purpose of this article is to show that the latter is impossible, and subsequently, that if socialism comes it can end in nothing but
the former—anutocratic socialism controlled by a very small, but powerful, group of people.

With the present day increases in the volume of legislation which
our governmental system must enact, it is becoming increasingly difficult for the legislature to pass all the required measures. A solution
to this problem has been found by giving the cabinet power to enact a
multitude of orders and regulations persnant to an Act of the Legislature, so that when the Act goes into operation its provisions are hardly recognizable as stemming from the original. The inevitable result
of this aggrandizment of the legislative powers of the cabinet is that
the elected representatives of the people, in the legislature, have
very little control of the governmental! process ,in spite of parliament's
academic right to review orders-in-council.

So far this trend has brought no widespread discomfort because,
in spite of it, parliament has retained some measure of control. However, with the advent of socialism, with its theories of governmental!
ownersip and control, the measures that a government would be required to enact would be much more numerous and comprehensive. In
effect, a large part of the economy of the country would be a monopoly
in the hands of the government which must be operated or regulated
by the monopolist, viz. the government. This is the trend of governmental affairs in England today under a socialist government. What
grounds are there for assuming that this vast increase of governmental!
measures will not have the same effect as the like increase in the past
few decades, and that with increased socialization, the control exercised by the people’s representatives will not correspondingly decrease?
The ultimate result must be that the government will be the small
group of powerful individuals who make up the executive.

{We cannot hope for a remedy for this situation from elections
which come once in every five years. Parliamentary control of the executive, if it is to be effective, must be continual, not operative once in
every five year cycle. q

Thus socialism, even if it begins as an avowed democratic socialism, must inevitable lead to a state of oligarchy with our government
operated and controlled by a few economic and political potentates.
The election of our representatives to parliament would become a mere
vacant ritual.

No, socialism is not the answer to our governmental difficulties.
However fine it may appear to some idealists, the fact is that, in the
long run, it will defeat democracy, The solution lies in correcting the
mistakes of our present system without overburdening the government,
so that the elected representatives of the people will be able to control
the actions of the executive.

Let us not forsake our long-fought-for democratic rights by the
introduction of a system which must inevitably result in government, by
a small group of economically and politically powerful bureaucrats be-~
yond the control of the Canadian people.

E. N. McKELVEY.

 

   
   
   

TIES

TIES!

A grand array of patterns
and colours featured in cur
Men’s Wear Department on

 

the Main Floor! .,. . Stripes,
figured patterns, novelty
effects, etc. Each $1.00 to
3.50

at EATONS

BONS ta

a

Gk ITED

 

 
   
 
    

 

—

"?

a

7’

‘
im

 

With the arrival of them much

heralded and long awaited Copp
* Memorial, our
sixty five dollar radio, the Com
three hundred
mon Room is at last complete, We
would like to thank the Canadian
General Electric Company who
went to a great deal of trouble te
get the set, and the Memorial
Committee, who worked hard ts
get the radio, possibly the only
one of its kind in the Maritimes.

Common” room addicts, beconing inured to the vacant stares
and messy habits of visiting Commerce students find themselves
playing host to another fock of
Art admirers, also equipped with
vacant stares, but not so messy.
Typical comment on the new exhibition: “Shucks, they’ve all got
clothes on.”

We note with interest that
Snuggs has taken up a new hobby,
that of bugling. It certainly lends
an air to the Mech 4 class, having
music and all that.

Well, it’s happening tonight.
The year’s greatest celebration,
the Ball and Banquet combination
are arriving. High spirits are expected, the higher the better.

Tt is not an idle boast to say
that one of the world’s greatest
needs is more Engineers. The
rebuilding of Europe demands
more and more trained men, Most
of these men must be trained in
Europe, in Universities.

HELP ISS!

Law Notes

After last week's noble effort
in putting out the Law Supplement to the Gazette, we journelistic artists of the Law School are
somewhat worn out. However the
supplement did not seriously
effect the Law School, and it is
still operating as smoothly as ever
down on Forrest.

With the mock parliament about
to begin, the chosen party leaders
and speakers are assiduously perusing the yolames of Hansard
that were recently moved up into

 

“MacDonald) will have formally

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

>

..»» LOW BROW

Biary Of Samuel Peeps

Feb. 21: Released from the tower this morning after a week in the
dungeon for criticism of the government and did immediately proceed
to the Gym Inn for a long draught of good ale, having never before
been so long from it. I was immediately informed that at Lady Hawkin’s
Ball, Milford Oakley and his obsession, Miss Snuggs were dancing a
new type of minuet known as lip to lip waltzing, Hence, after a good
meal to the operetta which was quite good of its kind although it was
spoiled by the several appearances of large hairy ruffian with a poor
yoice who I later learned was called. Pauley. Thence home to my wife,
who had betrayed my hiding place in the closet to the King’s guards,
und who it seems, was the direct cause of my being placed in durance
vile. What passed between us I shall not write here.

Feb. 24: Fell to talk with Mrs. Lane and with one word did get her
to go and meet me at the wineshop where I did give her spirits and
make her believe how fair and good a skin she has, and indeed she has
a very white leg and thigh, but monstrous fat. She did inform me o*
disgusting happening’s at the King’s palace where Heather Graham
duth frequently call upon Milord Jim Ross in a handsome Buick coach
There are those who may say that they act in no polite manner when
they ate secluded in the carriage. Further she did say that the Queen’s
hand-maidens, the ladies McCurdy, have behaved in a most vile manner,
refusing to give of their great wealth to assist the cause of needy
students.

Feb. 27: To the dance held by the students on the hill where I did
see Milady, Reeves who it seems had suffered earlier from an attack of
vertigo as she looked quite pale, and did seem dizzy. Amazed to see Miss
Fisher at the dance with a professor, I left ill.

 

the library. By the time you read

we men of mind and monetary
this the Governor-General (Dean

maximums sally forth in the
never-ending parade of fame and
fortune leaving behind in a cloud
of Comm.-notes such disrepifable
characters as Baker and Creighton who refuse to go to the Boilermaker’s. Leading our parade is
Mr. Curren who managed to lose
his Comm. 4 notes. Next comes
friend Pauley learning to smoke
along with shaving. After playboy comes old faithful bellowing
at the top of her lungs; none
other than, Jeannie “I’m flying
low tonight” Bowers. Following
Venus is Frazee publicizing the
“Rather - suffer - from - hallutosis - than - breathe - at - all association,’ along with Daddy
Mont, Uncle Dunlop, and Gran’pop Crowell, all three charactizing the “up-and-at’im” spirit of
this proud faculty.

read the Speech from the Throne,
and the verbal battles will have
started in all their intensity. How
about a large turn-out in the “public gallery” to hear such topics
discussed as Immigration. National Defence, a Canadian CoastGuard, and the feasibility of retaining the Senate.

Highlight of this week is the
great interest being taken in the
newly-formed Halifax Law Clerks
Association. It is fully expected
that many Law Students will be
attending the initial social funetion of this organization Friday,
which should prove to be a deJlightful evenings entertainment.

A corollary to the Law School
hit parade reported in Cathedral
Comments last week, is the new
best-seller “1,000 Questions—No All

c these above mentioned,
Answers” by Milner.

handsome? characters are running to Al and Lib. to buy banquet.

“| Daugh and Munroe are spending
RED INK the remaining short hours and
allowances to buy “anti-freeze”
as it reported the Sea-grill is quite
cold on Fri. evenings. Well, we

 

After throwing off a bad case
of depressing border-dyspepsia,

 

    
   

 

Arsenic And Old Lace

Come, ‘rentle reader, back into the world of used-to-be; back to
those glorious between-wars ways when Dalhousie won championships by
the score and Dalhousie was a power in the land, Those were the days
when debating teams came to match rhetoric with Dal.students from
Australia and England; the days when the Gazette column variously
called “Knowsey” and “The Diary of Samuel Peeps’’, was headed by
the title “Blotter” with the explanation “It picks up dirt’. Movie-goers
could see Clara Bow displaying “it’’ in “‘“Man-Trap’” at the Imperial
theatre; John Barrymore was the torrid “Don Juan” at the Casino,
A student, name of Angus L. Macdonald was.coaching the Dal rugby
team. At about the same time a young man with horn-rimmed glasses,
a brush-cut, and a frightened manner, was appointed N. S, Rhodes
Scholar. He was Arthur Russell Jewitt. A bitter battle was being
waged over the Ten dollar student council fee. As one might guess, it
was finally passed. It was in those days that a worried president of the
Student Council said “All students are asked to come to Council meetings but no ever shows up”. He was Murray Rankin. Right about then
tfrefsazette was by far the best student paper in Canada, and harsh
were the criticisms of upstart newspapers in other colleges. Looking
through these old Gazettes one comes across some nostalgic little pieces
of information;

Gazette, Feb., 1929; John Barrymore, directing some ladies in a
funeral scene on the stage said, “A little more dignity, please, try to
be virginal, ladies.”

One of the pall-bearers sniffed. “Listen, Mr. Barrymore, I’m no
character actress’.

Oh ?

Gazette, Oct., 1929; In Philosophy 1 Class, watching the agonized
expression on the faces of the students as listen to good old Herbie
cracking the one about the two Scotchmen who—heh, heh!—Who it
seems, met—heh, heh!—and so on.

As it was in the beginning, is now,

Gazette, Jan., 1930; (A letter to the Editor) What must be the
impression of anyone going through the grounds of Dalhousie after
dark to see in almost every nook and cranny couples indulging in promiscuous caressing?

 

In January?

Gazette, Jan., 1930; (From a poem of sorts) Don't you think Prof,
George Wilson is the masterful Greek type? I could just sit and look
at him.

Many do!

Gazette, Mar., 1930 (A Joke) “They tell me he drowned himself
in Paris’.

“Yes, he went in Seine”

Gawd !!!

Gazette, Jan., 1930; Plans-for new Gymnasium augmented, construction to commence April 1st. Of course its from the Queens Journx
al. The date is April Fool’s Day at Dalhousie.

Now; about this new residence—.

Gazette, Mar., 1930: Professor H. L. Stewart will deliver a three
months course of lectures at Leland Stanford University, California,
during the summer. Our congratulations to Prof. Stewart on the recognition of his abilities and the compliment he has brought to Dal.
housie.

It rains in California, too.

 

just can’t wait to see all Comm.
students clustering around a
table with lecture-notes in one
hand and a bottle of beer in the
other.

CATHEDRAL

been visiting the nearby Nurse’s
Residence think they have nade
a “hit”. The following paragraph
is an extract of a letter from the
Nurses to this corner:—

 

“We may seam quite uncon.
cerned about the fact that we
find ourselves well situated in the
midst of boys. Well incidentally

 

Join in...
have a Coke

     

COMMENT

“Lord bless thy chosen. in this

it was’nt exactly a repulsive idea,
but then again, boys are an every
day occurence. The boys we have

  
  
 
      
    
  
   
 
  
   
  
 
  
    
   
   
    
   

‘

     

“Coca-Cola” and its abbreviation “Coke”
are the regiscered trade macks which
distinguish the product of Coca-Cola Ltd.

    

place, met from Huts No. 1 and No. 2 are

For here thou hast a chosen unquestionably —just “BOYS”.
ween: (Ed. note: Doubtlessly, Cathed
» we ie ral MEN will henceforth refrain

Apparently the boys who hove from “baby sittings."’)

ee 7 ‘
This corner recommends that

Von “Bottles” Hartigan and Chisholm D. J. be added to the Dal
boxing team. (D. J. is built like
the proverbial brick establishment)
A return match between these
two would be a great attraction.

The Editorial Policy of every
good newspaper judges every
bit of news copy impartially.
It endeavors to present both
sides of a question in an-intelligent, brief and concise manner. Keep “on the Beam” by
reading your Daily Newspaper
...«. every day. Read

The blood Donor Clinic should
be invited to clean up.

From the research “lab"’ of

THE HALIFAX HERALD Regan & Moore Distilleries comes
and the announcement of a very po
THE HALIFAX MATL tent new formula, called ‘“NUBRU”, all of which reminds us

—Two of Canada’s Greatest that this is the nicht of the “boil
Newspapers” ermakers Brawl” (Also ‘“pay-dirt”
Over 85,000 Daily Circulation. day.) Cathedral men are reminded
Read to save “two bits’ for the Polio

kids.

Caen eee ee aan EEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEn

&
JM
ti
,

 
 

 

Fellow Students:

Below you will find an itemized accoumting of the amount recommended by the D. A. A. C. that should be reserved from the accumulated surplus for equipment. You are either to reject or approve this
recommendation on Tuesday next by ballet.

Tt should be stressed that the demand for thie equipment has been
building up over a period of years, so that the requirements are now
too great to be borne by a current budget. Minor items, puch as hockey
stockings and basketball shorts are included because they are integral
parts of the complete re-outfrtting program in hockey and basketball.
Apart from interfaculty, the major sports are the only ones dealt with,
because it is there that the need is greatest and most pressing. Minor
eports can be covered by current expenses.

The provision for interfaculty sweaters is in line with its increasing development and significance in Dalhousie Athletics. It is fitting
and poper that interfaculty sport be given the same sort of support as
Varsity. No matter what category, the difference in team spirit and
pride between a uniformed squad and a bunch of non-descript individ‘uals is immeasurable.

The whole issue seems to depend on how much importance you attach to Dalhousie sports. If it is not important to you, you will not
want to spend this much money on equipment. If it is important then
you will want to see your teams well and completely equipped, because
you will inevitably realize the effect of good equipment on the morale
and safety of your players, and the value it has in advertising Dalhousie
to the world at large.

I sincerely hope that there is a majority with the latter view.

DAVE DOIG, President D. A A. C.
FOOTBALL (2 teams of 15 men each)
Boots — 80 pr. @ $10.00 20.20... ce cceseceessrterecnen nee $ 300.00

 

 

Shorts — 30 pr. @ $33.50 per doz. «0.00... en 58,75
$58.75
BASKETBALL (2 teams of 12 each)
Shoes — 24 pr. @ ED dass aseuictannecides sess i avi Giese . 344,00
Shorts — 24 pr. @ $21.00 per dod, ...ceercseeceess 42.00
Singlets — 24 @ $20.00 per doz. ....-.cceseererreeneen 40.00 r
Sweatshirts"— 24 @ $18.00 per Oz. ....c:creccceren, 36.00
Sweatpants — 24 @ $3.50 CAC ... ccc ccenence-sserseees 84.00
346.00
HOCKEY (1 team of 15 men)
MN ieee ON BPO 2 vacccoctssneccoseqsanerpesesoors 150.00
Sweaters — 15 pr. @ 45.00 per doz. ........ Hes eset 56.25
Stockings — 165 pr. @ $16.26 per doz. ................--- 20.00
Gloves — 15 pr. @ $12.00 per Dr. ...,...cccccccceceeeees 180,00
406,25
INTERFACULTY
‘Football Boots — 30 pr. @ $10.00 $00.00
Football Sweaters — 8 tears oo... .-ccccrcscssnsneeeceencenonne 240.00
Hockey Sweaters — 8 Gams sicccceereecneceereees cee =3¥60.00
Basketball Singlets — 8 teams 0... 128.00
828.0%
$1989.00

 

 

NOTICE

Students receiving D. V. A.
benefite whe wish for any reason
le receive them in anether provInce should first inform the Senior
Counsellor, D. V. A., Halifax, and
arrange to have their files transferred. On returning to Dalhousie,
they should first consult the D. V. obi
A. Senior Counsellor in the other Fran
province in which they have been
receiving benefits, and then check,
én their retern, with D. V. A.
Helifax,

The above will apply chiefly to
Law students who are articled in
another province during the summer months; but the rule applies
to all who expect to draw benefits
ovtside of Nove Scotia.

lt should be noted that Summer
School courses under D. V. A. are
permitted only for wery special
reasons.

BANQUET

DAL CLASS OF ‘49
WED. MARCH 5, 7. p. m.

Nova Scotian Hotel
TICKETS 25¢

from Bob Watson,

Jubien, Fran Doane,

Hugh James, Jean Bowers

 

Fader's Drug Stores

22 COBURG ROAD

135 HOLLIS STREET
Halifax Nowa Scotia

a SSS
EVANGELINE
TEA ROOM

Commonly known as JOE'S
280 Quinpool Road :
HALIFAX, N. S. :

 

Corsages

A “Colonial’’ Cor de.
signed by ROSDDALE
speaks eloquent volumes
of tendernese and love.

   

Halifax St. John

NURSERIES Limited...
381 sarRincron st uaurex

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Red Hot—Bed
At McGill

B. U. P. — “A campus fight on
the issue of communist influence
within the student body, and
especially student representation
at McGill University will break
into the open within a few da,',
it is learned here (Montreal) tonight.”’

“For some time past, accusations have been made, especially
among war veteran students, that
a disproportionate communist influence exists both on’ student
bodies as well as on the campus
newspaper, Now, the Labor-Progressive Club has gone over to
the offensive in attacking all attacks on communism and advoeating action against them.

“A recent speech held before
one of the campus organizations,
the Newman Club. and communist
infiltration at Canadian universities has led to what is consider
 

I. S. S. CAMPAIGN
(Continued from page 1)
Morrison and John Pauley are responsible for the successful - beginning of the Popularity Contest:
Jack Lusher and Windy O’Neill for
Publifty arrangements; Ruth
Paterson for Secretarial work:
Ralph MacDonald, Terry MacLean,
and the Committee Chairman,
Lew Miller, have been co-ordinating the programmes of the various

sub-committees.

The success of I. S. S. Week
depends on every student at Dalhousie and King’s. Students are
urged to remember the cause for
this drive and to follow carefully
the campaign publicity for the
coming week.

THE
CAMERA
SHOP

26 BLOWERS STREET
HALIFAX, N. S.

Everything
Photographic

 

 

 

Dine at

The

Green Lantern
The Sign of a Geod
Meal.

 

FAVORITES SINCE 1906
Moncton, N. B.

Quebec Montreal

FeWeeSEH HEBEL GE

ed the unprecedented step of
citing the organization in question before the student council to
explain the guest speakers’ attitude.

“Anti-communist students, it [s
understood, claim that freedom of
speech being a. basic principle,
no organization could assume or

Friday, February 28, 1947

would want to assume
sibility for the utterances of invited speakers.

“Action of the stud@mt body
will, it is believed, lead to strong
reaction from the anti-communiat
element, further enlivening the
forthcoming student election.”

respon
eae a

 

The purest-form in-which+tobacco can be BENET

 

The Nervous System

of Industry

/

Even as the mobility of the human body is controlled by the human brain, so are the intricate
details of industry
ees. 6 And in conveying these brain impulses from
department to department and branch to branch,
the telephone plays an indispensible part.

tive depends, in a large measure, on the smooth

The welfare of the worker no less than the execu
functioning of this modern marvel of communica
tion.

 

COMPANY, LIMITED

 
   
  
  

S, 8103.08.38

MARITIME TELEGRAPH & TELEPHONE |

~

 

“Titre

  
   
 
   
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
   
     
    
   
      

5
a

   
    
   
  
 
    
  
    
   
  
   
  
 
   
   

iu
ty
