   

CANADA'S

ra

OLDEST STUDENT

    

PUBLICATION

 

 

 

 

 
 

THIS WEEK. .....

@ Page i.
@ Page 2.
@ Page 3.
@ Page 4.
6 Page 5.
@ Page 6.
@ Page 7.
® Page 8.

 

 

Sinking Fund For D. A. A. C.
Editorial—Points and Awards.
McClure and I. S. S.

Dal Swamps Kings

St. F. X. Defeats Tigers
Gourmand’s Ghost

Slinging The Bul!

Take It or Leave It.

     

 

 

VOL. 76. FRIDAY, JANUARY 31, 1947 No, 13
2)
- i : i a * Li a
‘ . ; o
' Better Music 9 ‘Stdnt! Foum..... Student Forum Sanctions
I iecti inking Fun enditure
s Objective Sinking Fund Expendit
| Formed to familiarize the A comparatively small number of students were on hand for the
students with the leas known firet student forum of 1947 on Tuesday, Jan. 28 at 12 noon. Limitation
works of the great masters, and of offices approved—Pharmacy secure a seat on Council — second
the more modern composers- - Engineer representative siven official sanction—recommendation to
Smetana, Shostakovitch, V. Wiil- Student Council to appropriate part of Sinking Fund for replacement of
Whe os well as. the standard depreciated D. A. A. Cc. equipment, these were the main items on the
Rach. Beethoven, and Brahms, agenda that were aired in the short meeting, which lasted less than one
/ ne ee > Music Appreciation hour, with Council prexy Clint Havey in the chair
a. il etore the ftorum was that of the
meet co hicggce Gane Sil Press Is Free limitation of offices. It was
swroftied tan vad by Tony Bid- F Thi k moved by Al Blakeney and sec| well, js onee again being led this orulm” EERERS  onded by Don Daag tes Bas
| 0 1e constitution read 15,
year by eg tal Tuesday evening rolled aronnd and Article 14 now read as con<e = heatie os consequently s. : again and the faithful stalwarts cerning the limitation of offices
= = t 5 er Bat of the music es Bsa put their heads together to thrash to the extent of 15 points accovd: eon en dmeaning of gach ; , out the pros Aan wai cate the Free- jing to the scale submitted for
actetiiot te explained ‘to ¢he “atid ay .Windy dom of the Press in Canada, approval, An amendment to the
ooo The group found that one of proposed scale was moved by Dun
r the chief criticisms of the local Harris and seconded by Art
COUNCIL FAVORS FROSH INITIATION 2222 22a Be Se Bs
: : that the reportorial staffs were Managers of the Gazette and
sw TS MUNRO DAY COMMITTEE lacking in proper background Pharos would receive no points
' APPOIN necessary for certain assignments, as it was only a choice of taking
At a meeting of the Students’ Council, held last Wednesday even- orb ats the 7 are i a job here or vial igri else.
. ine, a committee composed of Bob Wade and Bob Roome was appoint- mee = ” bit = we , s This was defeated and the main
ed to meet with a committee of the Senate to discuss the matter of D A A .- ee . bev es a te ti ¥ — Upraposas was carried. .
Freshman initiations. It was the opinion of the Council that the annual r : 4 : itorials, . Pe aS aig : gh Ye a ‘id i eeTEe OP is Corn anes
jritiation should be retained and that the matter of running the in- A special meeting of the D. A. ear | ee ie ae ee oe RAPTTIACY ana peor ne
itiation program should be left to the Sophomore eommittee appointed A.C. forum will be held on Tues- maint.” ee eat eee ee Mc fie
for the purpose, day, February 4, at 12.15 P.M. Sin the opinion of the group, aealibe ecedeatat at baked
A committee was appointed to The Council authorized sundry ah a Paso ceo an that concentration of ownership a representative by unanimous
! arrange details for Munro Day expenditures by the D, A, A. €2.5 hast boulud an the bulletix hoards a3 the Pree in a community Bre vote on motion by Don Dunilep.
| Members. are: Doug Roy, Al the Gazette, and the Awards com- Ror! the phak! wack aie So ludices the imbercets of the public. Dunlop again came to the floor
: Blakeney, Phil Raymond, Marie jyjittee. The constitution of the a ce Dalhousie ath, wacin Finally the Forum could see no to move that the second Engineer
Milton, Liz Reeves and Bill Ogil- Canadian University Liberal As- eS eae ; alternative of a practical nature member of the Couneil be given
vie. A request from the DKSVA sociation of Dalhousie was ap- All : ’ in the matter of the dependences official status by amending the
to take over the Munro night proved. The Gazette’s Second male mebres of the campus of the press on advertising for Constitution to permit same. This
dance was refused hecause Of Qyarterly financial report was are requested to attend. its financial support. (Continued on page 8)
the tradition behind Munro Day. adopted.
. -An ‘election committee was SP- t meeting of the Coun- W id R g = | |
pointed, see of eo oe ill the held es Wednesday, OF erorm ersona ssue = McClure
a ten patie aie ae February 5th. . Jan. 23—*“We in Canada find seen countless acres of land de- i eee - ey i ree
it. difficult to realize what it is vestated, orchards and forests SOF WATS OF COMMIS SUlGIee!: Oe
It was decided that students ail ; the Doctor believed that seldom do
ia Siam wide to live in a country that has been ravaged by fire-— a change has , " \de—"Tihes
: would be able to obtain skati flattened out by war,” said Pr. occured. Material destruction is P°°P** ee ane ey
mission to any public RE Robert McClure in his opening the small portion of the total de- look forward. r
session: at the Arena, Spor an address to approximately three struction of war;—mental de- eee eae SE ct kets
entation of their Students’ Coun- hundred students at the Univers- struction far outweighs material re ee oie poeeSee Les
cil card. Wives are to be allowed ity Christian Conference here at destruction—Do we forget the continued. “They have to look
admission on their husband’s Dalhousie et ee a forward.—There is nothing to
“ cards. The Council was informed : . tee RP a ‘aie Sr Pee (MOEN:  “igak eel upon.—How do you
that an employment bureau weuld Stating that his topics for dis- C®usedé by War: suppose students feel who have
be established to provide summer CUBROD WOre Fe follow the head- “An interesting paradox caus- had their universities destroyed?
employment for those stydents ings; “What Christianity has to ed by war,” he said, “is that —Those who live under such connot covered by the Student Vet- Bay to the world; what Christian- eopie who experience it develop ditfons are practical people. They
‘ erans’ Association Plan. e ae he a Canada; a a tremendous forward look.” The have no time for words. They
_A committee was appointed to ¥ * " : Sear 88 il teed ee Doctor then told of a department want to change the world, and
meet with Dr. Holland and dis a ‘ : : "eda - a store owner whom he knew in they do not leave it to others to
cuss. the Students’ Health Service, es a en ee fekiane at we China who, in an air raid, lost his change their world for ther.
with a view to expansion of the PERE SEO. PRE EER store. When the Doctor saw the By their fruits they shall be
service. Members appointed were “The war has changed people,’ man after the raid, he was cover- known.”
¥ Clint Havey. Larry Sutherland, he said. “By a simple process ed with fine dust of bomb-shat- The meeting was opened by the
Bill Pope, Bob Roome and Jim sugar can be heated into caramel, tered masonry, forlornly staring Chairman, Blair Colborne. FollowFrazee. Larry Sutherland, chair- and if heated more, into carbon—- at the mass of rubble remaining ing the Invocation Prayer by Dr.
» man of the awards committee pre- but the reverse process is not so from his store. Approaching the A. Stanley Walker, the guest
“-sented a report, which was re- simple.—An irreversible change man to express his regrets the speaker was introduced by Dr. A.
“ ferred by the council, after much has océured. The words “scorch- Doctor was saddened to be told, E. Kerr. The Dalhousie Chorus
discussion, back to the awards ed earth’ might mean littl to “My family is in there.” The was accompanied by the Dalhousie
eommittee far finalization. .++++ was here some people, but to one who has store-owner later philosophised, Concert Orchestra,
‘0 ) | a 4 : '
. Come See The Glee Club Serve The Man Who Came To Dinner Tonight !
i f Ad (%, aT . oe 2s. ;
ig ;

i

P 2

 

 

 
 
      

ii

2, ir nr

          
 
     
      
          
       
      
           
       
     
 
       
      

i
=
=e
s =

* , a J

News Of The
WEAK

One day I am standing in the
Gymnazium store—and it is the
day that the Gazoots are coming
out. Now everyone is standing
around and using these Gazoots
for various purposes, such as
wrapping fish and making paper
dolls—and are making some snide
remarks about said journal-—

 

 
 

CANADA’S OLDEST STUDENT PUBLICATION

  

 

  

Editor-in-Chief
AL LOMAS (3-4505)

i" rat. |
A at

yo Jae Avi. | News Features Sports when all of a sudden it comes to

} |  _- RED LAMPERT, P-1 JACK LUSHER DON HARRIS me that since everyone else on
ye Literary, News Uo-Ed Sports the campus (almost) is writing

ss ART. MOREIRA LEW MILLER, P-3 FRAN DOANE  columns—such as Campus Round.
Photographer Proofreader Business Manager 4) by Breezy O’Nail, and On the

aay et y
rant) ©
ky DON HARRIS

_ DON MORRISON
hi Ft b '
r f! .
y ae
ae"
ris

mos, |
r fr! ‘ ie

\ ‘ is.
4

i /- reds 5 ¥

POINTS AND AWARDS

1 The Students’ Council is currently working on a scheme to revise
_ ~~ s« the award system wherby a certain number of students are each year
* presented with Gold D’s as a reward for services rendered in various

Snidelines by Dee Hairless, etc.
etc., that I should be writing a
colum also. So I wander over to
the Gazoot office. Here there is a
big sign on the door which says
Keep Out—This Means You—so
I go in. Here there are many
people busy talking, and drinking
coffee and thinking up jokes for
next week's Gazoot, etc. So I
ask the Editor if I can write a
column, and he looks at me, and
asks me if I can even write. But
this sort of thing does not bother

RALPH MacDONALD —
| , THE PICK OF PIPE TOBACCOS
REPORTERS AND CONTRIBUTORS THIS WEEK
Windy O'Neill, Fran Doane, Neil MacLean, Bob Grant, Priscilla, Mage
O'Neil, Laura Laughton, Bob Tuck, Ken Boite, Dave Jamieson, Bob
MacDougal, Liz Reeves, Joyce Madden, Jean Bowers.

Vol. 78 Friday, January 24, 1947

 

|

Corsages

A “Colonial” Corsage de.
signed by ROSEDALE
speaks eloquent volumes
of tenderness and love.

 
  

Dine at

The

Green Lantern
The Sign of a Geod

No. 12

 

 

  
  

‘on to hold any great value.

     
  
   
  
    
 
   
   
  
    
  
   
  
  
   
   
  
  
   
   
   
   
 
  
  
  
   
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
 
  
  
   
     
   
    
  
  
  
  
   
    
   

student activities. It is thought that the Gold D has become too comThis is all too true.

At Dalhousie, the point and award system has finally resulted in
a sad case of the cart before the horse, and too many students take

part in activities with covetous eyes glued to someone else’s Gold D.

‘The inevitable result has been that the D is not an award of honour,
but rather an award to indicate that the student has played so many
years on senior teams, or written so many words for the GAZETTE,
or acted in so many stage productions.

The ambitious scheme to limit student offices, which this year’s
Council has made constitutional, and the present award system will
have trouble in mixing. The award system pushes the point-hungry
student to keep as much work to himself as possible, and the new con‘stitution forces him to share his chances for points with all. Clearly,

“some house-cleaning is necessary—and that is underway. More important, there must be a change in student attitude toward D’s.

The D should not be permitted to become merely an acknowlegement of work done—an emblem exchanged for thirty points. It should
be regarded as an honour—as a mark of achievement in student affairs.
And—it should be an award spontaneously made, rather than the culmination of so many points.

THE CANCER OF BILBO

The following editorial is reprinted from the SILVER AND GOLD,
publication of the University of Colorado. There have been vague
rumors of racial discrimination within our own immediate vicinity,
‘and it is felt that this reprinted editorial is both timely and pertinent.

Theodore Bilbo, his seat in the Senate blocked, has gone to Poplarville for a cancer operation. It will not do him any good. The
cancer he is suffering from is not reached by the surgeon’s scapel, for
the festering virus that has attacked his mind is beyond the call of
medical science. Bilbo is a sick man, a symbol of a sick society, a
prototype of those persons whose bodies are racked by hatred and their
minds poisoned with the venom of intolerance.

For every Theodore Bilbo there are thousands of little Bilbos.
Each of them has absorbed a portion of the preamble of the Ku Klux
Klan, and each of them in his daily life spreads the vicious doctrine
of racial superiority, economic discontent, human intolerance. There
is no vaccine against this type of thinking; the only innoculation is
education. Sometimes not even that “takes.”

There are Bilbos among us on the campus. They are the ones
who stand behind the Constitution and deny the right of free speech
to those with whom they disagree. They are the ones who will applaud
Paul Robeson for encore after encore, but who will not desire to sit
beside a Negro in a drugstore. They are the ones who fought against
Hlitler’s Nazism, but would join the Christian Veterans of America.
‘They are the ones who attend church every Sunday, but sneer at the
Pope. ...

There is probably a little Bilbo in every one of us.
up in a classroom, a bridge game, a fraternity house.

It might show
It is poisoning

me as I know very well that even
if I can’t write, I can use a typewriter. So I sit down to write my
first column. This is it:

News of the Weak

We see where the Physics department is on a new trail for
an Atomic Bomb. Experiments
are underway to provide a diet of
atoms to selected hoboes to produce an Atom Bum.

Word from Sherriff Hall: Certain co-eds are now wearing shoes
with built-in holes in the ground
so they can go ont with short men.

= = + £
OVERHEARD IN THE HENHOUSE:

NEWLY HATCHED CHICKEN:
Ma, what’s this yellow stuff all
over me?

MA: That’s a yoke son! (ditto)
7 € . a
Sport shots of the Weak: The
Dalhousie boxing team, defeated
for the 87th time has been discovered to be suffering from
athletes back.

The botany department hes
been hard at work planting winter
wheat in rock gardens to prepare
a supply of biscuit flour for the
next crop of June brides.

. e > =

Latest Report: This week from
the INSTITUTE FOR -THE SALE
OF BEAUTY AIDS TO WOMEN
BECAUSE WITHOUT BEAUTY
AIDS THEY LOOK BEYOND
ALL AID — sazxe that foods play
a very important part in beauty.
If you eat lots of peaches you
look like a peach. If its plums
you look like a plum. If they’re
wrinkled you look like a prune.
Some people eat pears, Some even
eat watermelons.

FURTHER BEAUTY HINTS:
Girls—your figure is very important. If you don’t watch your

 

Meal.

 

5. Cunard and Company, Limited

HARD COAL * SOFT COAL

MARVEN’S BISCUITS

 

 

“Heat Merchants Since 1835”

COKE * FUEL OIL

OIL BURNING EQUIPMENT

HALIFAX, N. S.

 

 

 

Halifax

Aalhousie Hniversity

Halifax, Nowa Scotia

Largest Staff, Libraries and Laboratories in the Maritimes

FAVORITES SINCE 1906

Moncton, N. B.

 

 

The Faculty of Arts and Science
enjoys international distinction

 

ur slowly, making us less of a real person, and yet we fail to recognize ata Wa ana else ell D6 exe Degrees of: Diplomas in:
the symptons of disease in ourselves. It is something we cannot legis- ail lites knittine act ne Bachelor of Arts Engineering
lute against, because the inner heart of man is not vulnerable to man- ERT CES ee Is Bachelor of Science Education
cracking your knockles etc. Proper B lo :
made laws. tah: Wh achelor of Commerce Music
God has made the law. “He that sayeth he is in the light and “TN Bpparet is er, ae Bachelor of Music Pharmacy

hateth his brother, is in the darkness even until now. .. .”

EDITOR’S MAILBOX

The Editer:

The review of the recent Fvicoms program has disappointed
many who were performers or
listeners at that enjoyable entertainment. It is a depressing aftermath of an event which, at the
time, was widely proclaimed a
success. Not discrediting either
the critic, whose ability is unquestionable or the truth of his
statements, [ do doubt whether

his efforts will have the desired
effect, ;

 

Considering that all performers work voluntarily that they rehearse and perform because they
enjoy it, hoping that others will
too, that most of them are young
and easily discouraged, surely encouragement is more beneficial to
such a troupe than is candid
criticism, .

The writer queries why more
and better performers do not appear on the Dal stage. Is not the
reason obvious?

SOHN F. WORSLEY.

if you weren’t wearing apparel—
you'd look silly, wouldn't you?
We will continue this aid to eneds at any time that a petition
signed by 250 co-eds is received.

We disagree with the psycholory lecturer who stressed, the
other day, that no two individuals
will react in exactly the same way
to a given stimulus. If two persons are placed on a hot stove
they will both do the same thing—
quick. Get off!

This is being my first column,
so it is not so good as all the rest
will be. At a later date I will also
answer letters from the love-lorn,
and give advice on how to catch
your man. (Letters from the Lovelorn will be appreciated) Gus.

Master of Arts
Master of Science

Honour and Advanced Courses in many departments
in the B. Sc. course about $210.00 a year

$160.00 a year

Inclusive Fees

Pre-Professional Courses

in the B. A. Course average about

Many valuable scholarships, on entrance and throu

Regional Scholarships awarded on the result of e
February in any

our courses in Classics, Mathematics,

m . eee ee
Law, Medicine, Dentistry, enjoy an unexcelled reputation.

Women students live in Shirreff

Meals for all students are available at the U
For full information write to THE REGISTRAR.

The Professional Faculties

 

Residences

students,

NUR/ERIES Limited...
381 sarrincron st. waurax

 

DARTMOUTH, N. S.

St. John Quebec Montreal

Hospital Pharmacy
Mining Geology

gh the courses
$ xaminations held ij
Maritime school. Special $600.00 scholarships for Hon.

Modern Languages and History.

Hall — one of the finest Women’
Residences in the Dominion. Residence is provided for fi :
in the University Men's Residence. ee

of two affiliated institutions or in
Special accommodation is provided fF

Other mem students live in either
selected and approved homes.
Or married and single ex-service

 
   
    
 

ul
=

    

Ll

a

i
f

*
J a
7 =. f
is ‘ '
A, »
i
‘
/ ' —
a a
/ .
7 A . : % | =

ih +. ek fi >. ~* , i. 
su
a4

 

nail
  

ry

 
 
  
 
  

__ abuses

-_... OF MELLIONAIRE’S BALL

 

Dal Public Affairs Institute
Leads In Labor Study

JACK MACCORMACK q
“Let's get at the facts so we can disagree on the interpretation.”
This refreshing suggestion forms the motto of 2 young, grass-roots
type of organization known as “The Maritime Labour Institute.”

' Organized and sponsored by
the Dalhousie Institute of Public
-Affairs,; the group was formed at
the request of Maritime labour
leaders who, in the spring of '44
had gathered on the campus to
discuss education and labour.
Another branch of the Dal Institute of Public Affairs. is the
Nova Seotia Municipal Bureau.
The aim of this croup is to im
Lathes Leave
Arts Building

Huge vans rolled up to the back
entrance of the Arts Building;
timbers, rollers and ropes were
thrust into doors and windows,
and with the same efficiency with
which the machine shop had been
aperating for several years, lathes
and machine equipment were moved from the room which had been
an Arts Common Room until
1942,
_ Under the direction of Dr. Sex‘ton, the Director for Vocational
Training in Nova Scotia, this
machine shop had been turning
out highly-skilled instrument artificers for the National Research

(Continued On Page &)

and Orchestra,

prove civic administration throughout Nova Scotia. Last summer,
for instance, a course was held
at Dal which was attended by
civic employees from all over
Nova Scotia. .

Today, as perhaps never hefore, industria) and labour problems demand sane and reasonable
solutions. Dalhousie’s contribution
through the Maritime Bureau of
Industrial Relations has been cf
the highest order, The research
done on health insurance (referred to in last week’s GAZETTE)
was one of the achievments of
this organization. Research on ir
(Continued on Page 8)

Thanks...

The University Christian
Conference Committee
wishes to express its appreciation to the Dal Chorus
and their
directors, Geoff Payzant
and Frank Padmore, for
their work in connection
with the conference. ..

 

Government Control Of Liquor
Deplored By Launitz Melchior

Vancouver, B. C.—(UXF)—
“Never until I came to Canada
did I see so much drinking of hard
liquor among young  peoole,”
Lauritz Melchior told the Ubyssey
recently.

He said that in Western Canade drinking is treated as a tolerated vice. You buy your liquor
in a government-controlled store
and then carry it away as if you
Kad stolen it,

“Tt is not a very pretty thing

to eee young girls drank,” Mr.
Melchior continued, “yet 1 hae
seen this many times during my
Visits to this coustry.”

‘Phe government's strict contre] of liquor ia simply inviting
| f the habit. “Is it anv
o ei *.

    

——_ = ‘
‘Fp pa

    
 

wonder that an air of ‘stolenfruit’ glamor has risen in connection with drinking in your
country?”

Mr. Melchior went on to say
that the only sensible approach to
drinking is not by hush-hosh
methods but by open acceptunc?
of it as a part of our daily lives.

“Why don’t those religious organizations who clamor for prohibition realize that by repressive
measures they are defeating their
own end?” he asked.

The most important thing is
that Hauer should be stripped of
its false glamor and relegated to
}*S proper’ position as a table arcessory which adds to the enjoyment of one’s meals,

the .GAZETTE. Only by

CANADA'S

Open Political
Rally Planned

The executive of the Procressive-Conservative Study Group,
the Canadian University Liberal
Association, and the C, C. U. F
are considering the possibility of
holding a joint meeting at which
a spokesman from each of the
three major political parties will
outline the aims and objects of
his party.

Tt is hoped that sufficient interest will be aroused among the
student body to warrant the use
of the Gym for this occasion, It
is certain that all three groups
will try to obtain prominent
spokesmen for such an occasion,
and it is anticipated ‘that the
question period will be a lively
one requiring great skill on the
part of each spokesman.

If you desire to attend such a
meeting, please inform one of the
executive members of any of the
political groups or the Editor of
this
method can we calculate the size
of the audience we shall provide
for.

Sed. R. M. Black, pres. P-C.
S.G.: G. Hawkins, pres. C. U. L, A.
G. Black, pres. C.C.U.F.

Foggy-City Law
Team Trims Dal

Arguing the negative of the
proposition “Resolved that all remaining appeals from the decis
 

 

ions of Canadian courts to the
Judical Committee of the Privy

Council should be abolished.” the
debating team from Dal Lew
School lost the decision to the
U.-N. B. Law School in the Foregy
City last Friday.

Dal was represented by Bill
Cox and John De Wolfe, and
were opposed by Ian Mackin and
James Lunney.

The debate was
collegiate debate,
tinuance of past practices of holding annual debates between the
two Maritime Law Schools.

Dal Law School will be represented by P. J, O'Hearn and Gord
Black in a debate with Osgoode
Hall Law School to be held at
Dal Feb. 14.

inter
ceon
not an
being in

Many Caper
In Council hop

Despite the recoiling of the
Gym rafters from the strains of
an unfamiliar orchestra the Student Council dance of last Friday evening was a successful addition to Dalhousie’s social calendar. Many bitter student tears
were shed when it was discovered
that Don Warner and his boys
could not be had for the 2fair,
but Don Lowe's music was generally accepted as very good.
However, Warner's novelty numbers, vecals, and “live-everymoment-of-it” delivery were keenly missed.

An impromptu sing song during
the intermission added to ‘the
light-hearted spirit of the evening

(Continued on Page 8)

C4

Support

By LEW MILLER

“Do you know that it is a fact that you can study
better in schools with windows in them?—and with three

meals each day?”

This statement by Dr. McClure
in one of a series of addresses
to Dalhousie-Kings students during the University Christian Conference might have been made in
direct support of the Internatioral
Students’ Service, One can have
no doubt that the ideals of the I.
S. S. are part of that which is
greatly needed to help us realize
the common-sense good envisioned by this unselfish champion of
right.

“Do you realize that there are
only five libraries left standing
in China, a land of 450,000,000
people;—and that there is not a
library in the whole of Burms?”
asked Dr. McClure. —Do we realize what it means to be withceut
a written source of knowledge*—
Let us try.—Let us think of our:
selves as students in China, or
any other ravaged land, with
no university, no books, relatives
missing or killed, and with a deep
and burning desire to learn so
that we could believe that there is
a meaning and purpose to life.

“There are two types of people
in the world today,—those who
have been hit, and those who have
not been hit’, continued the speak
er. “The classification of victor
and vanquished, friend and fore,
Axis and Allies, is an antiquated
idea.—We must think of our
nation as one that has not heen

Because of this, the Doctor
that we should have a two

hit.""

said

fold philosophy of thanksgivi..c
and obligation.

Why were we not hit?—On
many occasions Dr, MeClnre
heard wounded men turning sleep

lessly on their stretchers muttering, “Why. why ?—Why
was I spared when others are lving up there dead?—Why—whr?
McClure replied, ‘There is only one
part of Gadl’s
plan,—that’s why you were spzxred.”

why
—And for this question, Dr.

answer.—yYou are

 

Help Improve Your Gazette

Week after week great sighs of relief are emitted from the drooping lips of the GAZETTE editorial staff and co-workers, as the news is
flashed from the printer's office that the press is rolling, that the few
minor holes are plugged, that the over-length stories have been cut to
printable length, and that all the minor things which occur at the last
If the GAZETTE staff occasionally has« a
haggard appearance, if any of its members respond sullenly to a grecting, there might be a reason,—for as soon as the copies of their baby
have been circulated throughout the campus, they await protests. If
the staff learns nothing else at Dalhousie they shall have at least been
taught that not everyone can be pleased.

Only protests, unfortunately, are heard by the GAZETTE workers.
They seldom know when they have pleased,—and it is the intention
to please, because this is YOUR publication.

minute have been rectified.

a request is placed before the student beady for expressions of opinion.
What is it about the GAZETTE that you do not like? —What is it that
you do like? What changes should be made? —

Please place your suggestions, comments, criticisms in the, ballot

boxes which shall be placed for one week in the Engineer's Common

Room, “MacDonald Memor's!

OLDEST STUDENT PUBLICATION

VicCiure’

should he addressed to; The Director, Burean of Personnel.
United’ Nations, Lake Snecess,
N. Y.

Library Law Common Reom, Main Hall
Forrest Bldz., Gym Store, and GAZETTE Office —If no comments are
made it shall be taken for granted that you are satisfied.

Page Three

 
  
  

 

s ideals
i. S. S.

Canada have
Many of us have
“seorched earth” and the
evil fears and smells and noises
that go with it. We have sensed
the bewilderment and chaos of
war with its meanineless waste
of humanity:—but we have come
out of it,—back to a land that has
not been hit, where universities
and libraries are whole, where we
can get three meals per day and
clothes to protect our bodies,—
Have we forgotten what we
should be thankful for?—Have
we forgotten, or do we ignore the
fact that others are dying of starvation daily in other parts of the
world?—Let us be thankful and
let us fee] obliged to help others.

We stedents of
not been hit.
seen

The Dalhousie committee of thle
International Students’ Service
wil] soon launch a drive to raise
funds for indigent students in
other parts of the world. Let us
remember the words of Dr. MeClure. Let us remember the
picture of hopeless devastation in
other lands. Let us remember the
homeless, university-less students
with the war-twisted minds wo
are in need of food and clothinw
and books and re-education. Let
us not forget. 4

U. N. ORGANIZATION
OFFERS POSITIONS

Opportunities for employment
to Canadian citizens will be open
in the United Organization and its specialized agencies,
and will include a wide variety
of professional and administrative

Nations

posts.
United Nations

nlications for

classification,

welcomes apexamination and
With a view to
lists of candidates
eligible for appointments “in the
Correspondence and requests for application

establishing

future.

forms

Consequently in this issue

 
 
   
  
   
       

On The
SIDELINES

BY DON HARRIS

-_—_ — SS a a eer ee a ee

+The Dec. 14th Issue of the Xaverian (St. F. X. college weekly)
_ Tan an editorial on poor refereeing in football last fall, and made it
clear that the article was only intended to bring to light the harm which
_ could be done to Intercollegiate sport by poor officiating, of games.
_ They implied that the setup was present in other sports as well as foot| 7 ball, We heartly agree with them on this point, and praise them for
the stand which they have taken on such a vital issue, especially in
past Maritime Intercollegiate Athletic Union meetings, where their

  
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
    
   
  
   
  
   

 

etiip

representatives were outspoken on this matter of proper officiating.

At the last meeting of this body, it was decided to have a board of

Basketball, and, as in the past, a list of eligible applicants were drawn
up and approved. All those approved were considered as being capable
of handling games efficiently, and ONLY those APPROVED were to
. handle games. The Referees’ Board would see that these men were
if. up to date on the latest rule changes, and would prevent undue rough‘mess on the playing floor. So much for what was decided!

In a recent game at St. F. X., a Dal player was illegally checked
so hard that he was knocked out. Fortunately, he was not seriously
injured, although he might have been, but the offending player drew

_ only a minor penalization, as the Dal player was awarded one free

_ throw. Later in the game, two Dal ‘players knocked their opponents
to the floor in a struggle for the ball, while a St. F. X. player recipro
 ¢ated with a Dal man, and—the referee ruled a jump ball, although
two men had been tackled in the exchange, with Dal the main offenders
this time. Again, luckily, no one was injured.

Tt turns out that at least one of the referees in this contest was
not on the approved list, as drawn up by the M. {. A. U., while there
is uncertainty as to the status of the other. One of these referees also

_ introduced a new ruling into the game——to break up the zone defence of their opponents, the Dal team was employirig a set-shot attack,
with one forward placed in the outside of the key (bucket), from where
he scored two baskets to open the second half. On the next play from

i" rt | this position, the referee blew his whistle. He informed the Dal play: ers that a man could only remain in the bucket 10 seconds, when his
team had possession of the ball. When questioned on this ruling he
reaffirmed it, but the Coach of the Xaverians agreed with the Dal players that a man could remain in the bucket as long as he liked. The

i referee then returned to the floor and advised the Dal player occupy
. ing that position that he could only stay there THREE seconds. As a
result, the Dal player stayed out of the position entirely.

So far, no such rule as this, or any other limitation of the time
spent in the bucket by an attacking player, has been discovered, although there is a 3-second limitation in the inner part of the key of
your opponent, when your team has the ball.

Obviously, this referee misinterpreted the rules, and was lax in
enforcing others, which might have resulted in serious injuries to some
of the players. What purpose is there in vocally supporting better
officiating in order to encourage better sport, and setting up a system
to.realize this aim, and then to ignore it in practice, as was done in this
case. We strongly recommend action by the M. L. A. U. to prevent a
reoccurrence of this incident.

ONE REFEREE IN HOCKEY?

While on the subject of referees, we would also draw attention

to the officiating of hockey games in Intercollegiate circles, as evidenced in the St. Mary’s — St. F. X. and Tech-St. F. X. contests played in
Halifax recently, where only ONE referee was used in each game.
-Sorely, if it is deemed necessary to have two referees inJunior Hockey,
two officials are required to properly officiate an Intercollegiate match,
as well, since, with the exception of Halifax St. Mary’s Juniors, Inter-eollegiate hockey is at least on a par with Junior play.

- No matter how hard he tries, ONE official cannot handle an Intercollegiate game efficiently, as he can only be at one end of the rink at
a time, and thus only watch one phase of the ploy.

' If the Intercollegiate authorities are sincere in their efforts to
improve the standard of play within their domain, then they must insist on having two officials handle an Intercollegiate contest, granted
that it may be difficult to provide them.

Sport should be played correctly or not at all, and Intercollegiate
Sport in the Maritimes can certainly stand improvements such as those
involving better officiating, without encountering a major catastrophe.
Otherwise the M. I. A. U. might as well “fold (its) tents like the
‘Arabs, and silently creep away.”

 

 

- PHARMACY PLANS FORMAL FOR FEBRUARY 22nd

The first Pharmacy meeting of

the new year was held on Wednes
day, Jan. 22, in the Medical
_ Sciences Building. |

‘ The meeting was opened by the

president, Jerry Reno. The min
| utes of the last meeting were read

by the secretary, Betty Atkins,

| which was followed by a dis
_ cussion of plans for the Pharmacy

aa ee

Formal to be held Feb, 22. As
this is our first formal affair we
hope that it will be a “booming”
success—Everyone come and have
a wonderful time.

Bill Morris discussed sporting
activities and praised the hockey
team for their good showing ia
the inter-faculty games.

referees, in order to provide suitable supervision of Intercollegiate —

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

a 7
¥ 4 rr ‘ 2
r r
. se
: a ‘
~ Sa ee a
ia f
,* 5 - "P 1
4 \!
; i - ¢
| : . | cs]
} of A
‘ !
H
; Z
| ' i
4
r i. 4
" QP va a 4 itl ai y' ; wh > 
Swamp

\

Friday, January 31, 1947

CITY LOOP

Kings 49 - 25

In what is commonly known as the fair game of basketball (seeing is not always believing) Dal Tigers
maintained their undefeated streak in the Halifax Intermediate Loop, trouncing a game Kings quintette
49-25 at the Dal Gym last Wednesday afternoon.

 

DAL GIRLS TIE Y. W.C.A.
LOSE TO KING’S CAGERS

DAL vs. Y. W.

Dal girls’ Intermediate basketball team started out in the Senior
City League last Friday by tying
up their first game of the season
with Y. W. C. A., with a score of
16-16.

The Dal team shone during the
initial frame, chalking up 10
points to Y. W.’s 6. Priscilla
Raymond put in a fine exhibition
for the Tigresses, both with her
accurate shots and reliable team
work,

There was a continuous run of
fouls throughout the game, especially during the final half when

MEDS 21 — FROSH 20

Meds kept pace with Law in
the leadership of the Intertac
Basketball League when they
barely managed to squeeze out a
victor over the luckless Frosh
squad.

The game was very closely contested and exciting match. Mason
MacDonald was the star plaver
for the Frosh as he rolled in 5
field goals and one foul shot.
Stevenson, with 12 points led the
Meds to victory.

Meds. . . . Epstein 2, Cox, Foster 2, MacLellan, Ashley, Moron
8, Williams, Stevenson 12, Moffet,
Deacon 2.

Frosh . .. . Himmelman 2,
Tanner 2, Saunders 5, Robertson,
MacDonald 11, Sevens, Gibson,
Murphy.

 

 

Finest Quality
SPORTS EQUIPMENT

 

eStunneys Lyniled

456 Barrington St.

 

 

everything and everyone broke
loose. The college sextet seemed
to lose complete control, and
their opponents held them seccreless in the third quarter, and
picked up 10 points to ties the
score at 16-16.

The Y. W. team played a speedy
game and were starred by E.
Creaser and M. Rice.

Dal—T. Aslin 2, P, Raymond
8, E. Doull 6, N. Barter, J. Rogers
A. Tompkins, R. Fisher.

Y. W. C. A.—F. Jamieson 1,
E. Creaser 7, M, Deacon, M. Rice
8, E, O’Brien, J. Vaughn, D.
Fulton, R. Longard.

DAL vs. KING’S
The Dal 2 girls’ team was defeated on Monday night by King’s
with a score of 20 - 8.

* (Continued on Page 8)
Saoooa—oooooo
EVANGELINE
TEA ROOM
Commonly known as JOE’S
280 Quinpool Road
HALIFAX, N. S.

 

ee
a
5

om

In between fouls called against
them, the Tigers managed to find
time to sink 21 baskets to their
opponents 8, and both teams
spent their spare time shooting
fouls, with extra shots going to
Kings, almost two to one, Hewever the shooting of fouls, despite
the numerous opportunities to
practice, was poor, Kings scoring
only 9 for 28 tries, while Dal did
a little better with 7 for 15.

On the play, Dal had a decided
edge, outscoring their opponents,
31-15 in the first half, paced by
the marksmanship of Scott Morrison, who registered 8 markers
and guard Rug Pritchard, who
came up from his defensive spot
to score 7 points in this half,

The outstanding offensive threat
for Kings was Pete Hannington,
who was tossing them in from all
angles, scoring 11 points in th
first half, although his mates were
unable to find the range.

(Continued on Page 8)

D.G.A.C.

By FRAN DOANE

Hay-lo everybody and all that
stuff. We is drapping in again
with some more news on the local
yokels round about the Gym, so
stay where you're to for the time
being. The latest excitment has
been the start of the Senior City
League basketball games.

The Senior team are holding
their own in their section of the
League, and though not in the
lead, Dal Intermediates are putting up a fine show. The results
of their game with the Y team
were definitely due to lack of
team work. We're more than
serious when we say “you can
win Dalhousie, if you only buckle

(Continued on Page 8)

THE
CAMERA
SHOP

26 BLOWERS STREET
HALIFAX, N. S.

Everything

  
    

PLUS TAX
OR TAXES

 

 

 
   
    

iw

dy

i

.
s

 

  
    
   
  
  
   
 
 
   

The Dal hockey Tigers were defeated 8-2 by the powerful St.
F. X. squad, but they proved that
this year’s edition will be a fighting aggregation. It was their first
game of the season and the boys
were hampered by soft ice and a
poor condition. Coach Windy
O’Neil was pleased with the game
and predicts that the Dal team
will reverse the decision in the return game, here, later in th
season.

The game started off at a fast,
rough clip with the play heing
fairly even in the first period although St. F. X., by superior
marksmanship skated off two
goals ahead, Lyons, McDonald and
McGillvray scoring for the Antigonish boys, O’Neil for Dal.
The game slowed down in the

second period due to a_ slow,
slushy ice surface but the play
was hard fought with numerous
stiff body checks delighting “he
large crowd in attendance. Dunc
MacIntyre performed the hat trick
in this period with Bob Knickls
scoring for Dal, the period ending
with the score 6-2 for St. F. X.
The standout performer of this
period was the Dal Goalkeeper
Ron Timothy who stopped thrust
after thrust from the Saints forwards.

In the third period, the tired
Dal team resorted to a defensive
style of play and held their opponents to two goals, aided by
the good work of their standout
goalie Timothy, Campbell and
MacIntyre counted. The Dal team

(Continued on Page 8)

 

NAVY DOWN TIGERS 44-34

Navy evened their record against
the Dal Tigers last Monday in an
exhibition encounter at the Stad
Gym, when they downed the Bengals 44-34, after coming from behind in the last five minutes to
score 12 points while holding the
Tigers to one field goal.

The Tigers took an early lead
and maintained it throughout the
first half, as the Navy squad took
many shots but could not find the
range, although they controlled
a good part of the play off both
backboards, due to their superior
height. The half ended with the
Bengals out in front 17-12, with
Farquhar leading the way with
6 points, followed by Rosenfeld
with 4. Coe topped the Navy
scorers with 6 in this half, followed by Heath with 4 points.

Navy started to press early in
the second half but the Tigers
matched them basket for basket
for the first 15 minutes in the

half, at that mark still ahead, although only by one point, 32-31.

Then the roof fell in on the
Tigers ,and the Navy raced
through the collapsing Dal defence for 12 points, completely
controlling the play until the final
whistle.

Heath was top marksman in
this half, with 9 points while Coe
registered 7. Deakin, held scoreless in the first half, shook off
his check for 4 baskets in the
second half. Dal points in this
half were well-distributed, Giffen
registering 5, Farquhar and Levine finding the hoop for 4 points
each.

Dal:—Morrison 2, Farquhar 10,
Rosenfeld 4, Palnick, Levine 6,
Giffen 7, Dunlop 3, Kelly 2.

Navy:—Heath 18, Campbell,
Coe 13, Deakin 8, Seppala 6, McCormack, Wilson 2, Colbert 2,
Lomley.

 

INTERFAC HOCKEY

Pharmacy 7—Dents 2

Pharmacy scored their first
victory of the season, Tuesday,
when they downed Dents 7-2.
Stallard and Morris led the way
for Pharmacy with two markers
each, McQuarrie, Johnson and
McKinnon picking up the other
three.

McDonald and Pence were standouts for Dents and netted tleir

two goals. Dents, although weak
numerically, put up a good battle.

LAW 8 — COM. 1

In downing Commerce, 8-1,
Law looked like the team to beat
in this year’s Interfac League.
Sparked by the ex-Notre Dame
Hound, Jim Creaghen, who tearistered three times, the Lawyers
showed great power on the attack, Bent, McKay, Wilson and
McDonald scored the other taw
goals.

Slaven notched the lone -tally
for Comerce, who were unable to
eope with the Legal speedsters.

  

 

CAMPUS
ROUNDUP

By WINDY O'NEILL

CRISIS AT THE HALL—Miss
MeSharpe, the warden of Stirrup
Hall, last week decreed, quote—
there will be no more physical
demonstrations of affection— unquote. This is aimed at stopping
the inmate’s time-honoured practise of “alcoving.’’ Sweet, forlorn
glances are still legitimate but
the decree is, in effect, a farewell
to arms. Reliable sources report
that no rebellion is imminent and
the ruling will have no visible
effect on the students at Pine
Hill and King’s. Guards have been
posted around the university buildings to prevent amorous students
from chipping their own alcoves.
A bright side to the news is that
there will be a decrease in Hall
strangulation cases, caused - by
those over-amorous amazons from
Cape Breton.

* J . *

Dalhousie owes Physical Director John MacCormack a salute
for the job he has done in organizing the inter-faculty sports. In
this way will sports be revived
and much hidden talent discovered and developed. MacCormack
is pleased with the cooperation he
has received from the DAAC and
the Council, but WE imagine that
this is a matter of comparison.
Anything new must come upon
these reactionary groups gradually, so that if each year similar
advances are made, a suitable
condition in equipment and teams
should be reached in abeut five

years,
v ¥ > a

A word about sports. There are
two things that are holding hockey back in the Maritimes, one is
poor coaches and the other is bad
referees, MacDonald and Reardon,
a couple of live young fellows,
have broken a precedent by bringing in capable Marty Barry to
solve the coaching problem for
St. Mary’s Juniors. These kids
handed St. F. X. their first defeat in two’ years before a packed
house, the other night. It has
been proved time and again that
there is money in sports in Halifax and there is no reason why
Dalhousie shouldn't be in on it.
An investment in a football or
hockey team could be quite profitable financially and morally.

 

St. F. X. HANDS TIGERS FIRST LOSS

In a rugged intercollegiate
contest that resembled at times-—
most of the time, in fact—a species
of “murder ball” said to have
been popular with the frequenters of R. C. A. F. hangers during
the war St. Francis Xavier hoopsters outpointed their Dalhousie
opponents 41-31 in Antigonish
last Saturday night. The play was
slow throughout, the checking
very close, and the ball handling
somewhat ragged, to say the least.
St. F. X. were without the services of three of their first string
intermediates, Frank Mooney,
Smokey Callahan and Tink Kyte,
while Dalhousie were minus their
high scoring centre, Eddie Rogers, all these men having been
ruled ineligible for intercollegiate play. The first of this sea
son's schedule, the game gave the
Antigonish men an excellent
_ start on the road to retaining their

i ce as Nova Scotian champions.

The Xavarians disorganized the
Tiger offensive from the opening
whistle by lining up their forwards in guard positions and then
sending them in to jump for rebounds off both backboards. Dalhousie was never completely abie
to counteract this manoeuvre, and
the strategy paid off well for the
winners. They collected most of
their points from lay-up shots
sunk under their opponents’
basket, their own defence all the
while seldom being punctured
from close in.

Unable to work around the X
guards on the narrow floor, the
Tigers attempted a penetration
through the center, only to be
frustrated, and they resigned
themselves to working the ball
slowly, watching the opportunities for long set shots. Farquhar
garnered eleven points in this
fashion, chiefly on one hand flips

from well out. Levine, Dunlop,
Giffin and Morrison divided the
remainder of the points among
them.

Towards the last minutes of
play, the game, which had been
marked by excessive body play
throughout, escaped the control
of the referees altogether. Pounced upon in mid air, Farquhar fell
to the floor, momentarily unconscious, and in the spirit of the
ensuing events, three football
tackles were delivered in succession in an effort to thwart a St.
F. X. rush. Happily the final
whistle blew seconds later before
any of the players were seriously
injured.

Dalhousie:—Farquhar 11, Dunlop 4. Morrison 5, Kelly 2, Levine
6, Giffin 3, Creighton, Pritchard.

St. F. X.:—Propper 19, Whalen
8, Ritchie 3, Miffin 4, MacLean 6,
Mooney 1, Kyte, McNeil.

  

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

AVERIANS DEFEAT TIGERS 3- 2

St. F. X. Still Undefeated

 

 

INTERFAC NEWS

Basketball

FROSH 4 — P. H. 4

Frosh split the points with the
a 4-4 score. Two goals by Adams,
Arena, Monday, holding them to
powerful Pine Hill squad at the
with added markers by MacDonald and Reid, matched the
counters registered by Hamilton,
who scored twice, and Smith and
Sharp, the other marksmen for
Pine Hill.

Pharmacy 3—A. & Sc. 3

Pharmacy proved they were
still in the Interfac League, by
holding Arts and Science to a 33 tie at the Arena last Friday.
On the long end of a 3-2 score, it
looked like a certain victory for
the Druggists, when Jack Lusher
of Arts and Science raced through
for a score in the last minute of
play.

The other two Arts and Science
goals came from the stick of that
able performer, Paul Lee. MeceQuarrie with two, and Stallard
with one goal, were the marksmen
for Pharmacy, who although outplayed, were not outscored.

KING’S 9—COM. 5

A serappy King’s College team
turned back a determined Commerce squad 9-5 at the Arena,
Friday. King’s ace trio of McKellop-Piggott-Morrison acconnted for 5 goals. Howard with 2,
Coles and Eisenhauer with one
each completed the scoring for
the College boys. For Commerce,
Brown and Carson scored two
apiece, Knickle netting a singleton, in a hardfought struggle.

ENG. 4—COMMERCE 2

Engineers came flying back on
Monday, as they tacked a 4-2 setback on King’s College. Tempers
flared as the ‘Kings’ men gave all
they had in trying to overcome
the Engineers’ lead.

Eisenhauer, Lamont, Steeves
and Flynn dented the twine for
the Engineers while Morrison and
McKellop figured in the scoring
for Kings.

A penalty to Markep of Kings,
for tripping Graves, touched of
the fireworks around the player's
box. Since the incident took place
late in the game, Referee Mac
Cormack refrained from throwing
the book at the offenders.

A. & Sc. 44 - DENTS 44

On Monday, Dents went down
to their third straight loss when
they were slaughtered by Arts &
Science 64 — 44. The loss placed
Dents in the League cellar while
Arts & Science remained tied in
fourth place with Commerce and
Frosh.

Oxford Theatre

Mon. Tues,

“IF I'M LUCKY”
Vivien Blaine, Perry Como.
“RED DRAGONS”
Sydney Toler

Wed. Thur.
“OF HUMAN BONDAGE”
Eleanor Parker, Paul Henried
“BELOW THE DEADLINE"
Fri. Sat.
“MUCH TOO SHY"
George Formby
“LITTLE MISS BIG”

—_—_—_—_—_———

 

_ Hockey |

NEXT WEEK
Mon. 5.45 Medecine vs. Eng
ineers; Arts & Science vs. Frosh

Tues. 5.45 Engineers vs. Arta
& Science.

Medecine vs. Law.
Thurs. 5.45 Commerce vs. Dent
istry; Arts & Science vs. Law.
Sat. 2.00 Law vs. Engineers;
Dentistry vs. Medecine.
Sat. 3.00 Commerce vs. Frost.

 

 

TEAM STANDING
Pp W. b. Pea
Medecine 5 6 O 10
Law 4. eee 8
Engineers S..<¢€ @ 8
Arts & Sc. 4 i983 2
Commerce S sie 2
Frosh ¢ >i soe 2
Dentistry 3; 0 8 0

HIGH SCORERS

GP, PTS.

Jim Morrow

Frank Rogers 65
Don Rogers 56
Jim Darey

Reg. Saunders
Bob McCurdy
Bruce Morton
Ken MacKenzie

Law 36—Commerce 36

On Monday, Law continred
their high flying pace at the top
of the Interfac Basketball League,
when they downed Commerce 1626.

Law’s smooth-working combination of Smith, Hart and Trites,
again led their attack, while Frank
Rogers and Jim Mont stared for
Commerce,

Law. . . Trites 6, Hart 8, Smith
10, Bell 4, Roddam 6, Grant, MeKelvey, Hickman 2.

Commerce. . . James, Mont 5,
Keith 2, McKinney 2, F. Rogors
17.

ee oe - OO OT OTH
oe
be

 

ENG. 42—FROSH 41

Bruce Bauld’s last minute feld
goal enabled Phe Boilermakers
to come from behind and defeat
a rapidly improving Frosh squad
42 to 41.

Engineers; Morrow 15; MacWilliams, Eldridge 4; Smith, D.
Rogers 8; Duff 2; Bauld 11:
MacMillan 2.

Frosh: Wilson 6; Himmelman
5; Morrison 5; Saunders 14; Tanner 2; Robertson 7; Stevens.

Arts & Science — MacKenzie,
Pope 11; K. MacKenzie 15; MeCurdy 23; Shatford 4; G. Smith,
Gillis; James, McLeod 8; Dickinson.

Dents — Cook 4; Pentz, Banks,
D’Arcy 22; Guam 2; McMurdo 2;
Steeves 4; Peters 10.

CASINO

AN ODEON THEATRE

 

 

Starting Saturday
For One Week

“TVE ALWAYS
LOVED YOU”

‘ (In Technicolor)
Starring Phillip Dorn

 

 
 

Into the Gym,
Occasionally, at eight,

But only on D. G. D. S. nights,

 

 
 

~Gourmand’s Ghost

Which was formerly the D, M. D. S.

(The Glee-Ciub, you know.)

The Ghost of Gourmand comes in, late,
And sits him low in regal state,

And sneers. ...

Remembering the old days.

In comes Zipper, of past renown,

(“Ze Dream of Love was a Zing of Beauty.”)
Early, of course, and bounces round,

Flitting and flying, here and there,

Airing his views-——with matchless tact—
Congratulating, thanking, bowing;

He was once President also—

In the old days.

The artistes giggle, directors leer.
Conductors beam when Zipper is there;

With matchless tact—

He talks aesthetics with aesthetic pianists—

Tells them all how good they'll be:
(Mutual Admiration, and all that)

And the curtain rises,
As im the old days.

Enter the critics, hard-faced critics,
Lean critics, the Princes of Mecca,
And (the balloon deflates) It comes;
And Zipper sees suddenly, lurking in the curtains,
(“lutching a celestial typewriter,
The Ghost of Snortin’ Gourmand.
Coldly it points a frigid finger,
Accurate, withal, and tears down illusions,

Tilustrates error... .

(“Ze Dream of Love was a Zing of Beauty? ? ? ny

Just like the old days.

. Zipper writes in haste to the Editor,
Complains of Gymnasium poltergeisten. . . .

Zipper writes a thesis to the Foreign Office
Demanding—with matchless tact—
Deportation of immoral ghosts
(critical and otherwise) and memorizes
The Excorcism Rites; his letter

Arrives at the Gazette office

On the crest of a strong wind,

(Behind which is Zipper).

Twelve hundred words (How long, Oh Lord?)
But Masticated, Chewed, and Bitten Short,

(Constructive criticism—Ha!)

A mere four hundred words reaches posterity.
But he bows, smiles, and thanks them all,

With matchless tact. .. 
T have a vision of a small man bowing,

Thanking someone, and justifying someone,

Throwing his weight (considerable) with desperate energy
Upon an ‘assignment, seeking therein a Gourmand,
Thirsting for a Gourmand, a solid Gourmand,

A Gourmand he can sit upon with ponderous gravity,

The genuine article now, alas, no more.

And I see the ghost of Snortin’ Gourmand

Lurking in the curtains, sneering, critical,

Remembering the old days. .

ANON

 

Objection
jec |

Shortly before the death of William Wordsworth, my mortal self,
I was considerably cheered by the thought that at least my demise would
afford my writings the opportunity of being appraised in an unbiszed
manner rather than in the usual, for that day, Wordsworth-is-a-radicalan-must-be-squelched style of the self-appointed critics.

I was wrong. True, I was placed on a pedestal by the academfcians, but not to be revered us
the prognosticator of a new era in
letters, but rather to be ridiculed
and subjected to the abuse of
those learned men, the instructors
of English Literature.

Note that 1 condemn the imstructors and not the students.
Your true student, seeking knowledge. delves into the intricacies
of my poems in a search for
beauty of thought and style, a
certain word-dimension. and” inpoiratitin {9 carry ‘on the unrewarding work of poesy, On the
other hand, the instructor. kaving

- gesimilated his quota of literatire

ms ordéred for him by, the Un
 

iversity, turns to his own mind for
knowledge and falls by the literary wayside. Thus, having no
further incentive to create poetr
and encompassed by the boun«aries of a limited intelligence, he
heeomes an instructor, a professor, in the hope that he may be
able to help the students, the new
literates, and im the pack discover
and assist, some brilliant mind (on
e2*th to-day there still are these)
in its ascent.

How good! How altruistic! How
-athetic. — —— Mistake me not!
i have sdopted no “holier-thanattitude to the efforts of
these men to assist their followes, To the tontrary, FE admire
their =ririt. But the utter tripe

Sle uve 'P
unouw

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

that is passed on under the guise
of profound wisdom by these
honest, thinking men would make
an Angel shed its wings, if we, up
here, were affected by the errors
of mortal men. (And we are not,
thank God.)

Their theories, conceived in
misunderstanding and born of no
will to create are presented to,
or rather forced upon, the younger minds in a grating, repetitious
manner which can lead only to
rebellion. You know how tender
skin would react to too-frequent
applications of a strong salve?
Thus the young brain reacts to
¢ontinuous dunning. So, logically, any possibility of the appearance of a bright new star on the
literary horizon, under the present atademic system, seems precluded.

If you have grasped the import of my little composition up to
this point, you will have reached
one of two conclusions. You are
either convinced that I am a fool,
or you have attained a rare plane
of pessimism. The degree to
which I am a fool, I leave to you;
but ‘the pessimistic literary attitude I must deplore. All hope
is not lost by any means, for the
mediocrity of the tutorial brain
is tempered by a desire to teach
and a realization that infallibility is not general.

I note that in the mad scramble
to have everything filed, tagged,
and. pigeon-holed for ready reference, I have been classified as
a “romanticist’’. This broad elazsification of all persons who poured
out their hearts in poetic metre
so that all the world might understand is, I suppose, necessary.
This 1 will not protest. But I feel
I must raise a dissenting voice to
a certain opinion which is foisted
upon the student body by the
university hierarchy. The statement to which I point the scornful finger is that favourite of
English teachers which I see in
eo many scholarly. writings, ‘Wordsworth’s communions with God
through nature reached a point of
mysticism.” What epic foolishness, :

“Mysticism”! T see that your
dictionaries delineate it as the
act of seeking direct communication with God -by self-surrende
or contemplation. Merlin was a
mystic. Am I then to be compared
to a second-rate mediaeval wiichdoctor?

Perhaps it would be well for
me to explain a few basic truths,
premises’ if you will, vpon which
my written thoughts were founded. I did not as is generally supposed, seek communion with God
through nature. Is it too difficult
to grasp that intuitively like you
I admired beauty, Each day when
I look down on your world I see
youths whistling (An expression
of admiration I’m led to believe)
at pretty girls; men and women

_ spending gruelling hours in gard
ens in order to assist flowers in
their growing; houses bedecked
with the blossoms of these same
flowers; parks laid out symmetrically in the midst of noisy city
streets; houses painted; portraits
painted; faces painted. All these
are expressions of genuine ard
general human admiration of
beautiful things! Is this mysticism? If it is, then I stand before
you, guilty and condemned.

But if you are with me in the
belief that this admiration of
pleasing objects. acts, and thoughts
is a normal reaction lke slecping, eating, and mating, then perhaps you may yet be able to onderstand me.

Have you never seen or hear?!
some manifestation of beauty

mystic

  

which came so near to perfection
(Though you wouldn't recognize
perfection if you saw it) that you
were filled with the realization of
something other than human
agency behind its inception? Of
course you have! Even the unfortunate individuals tucked away
in your local imbecilium know
and appreciate true beauty. But
do we call this inherent taste for
pretty things “Mysticism”?

I know that nione of these arguments will ever convince the professorial clique that IT am not a
(or mysticist, the same
thing) for their addle-pated predecessors told them it was 50.

It is out of the welter of present-day dogmatism, seeking a new
outlet in defiance of the dictatorial precepts of University literature, that the short-of-the-mark
seribblings of such writers as
Dorothy Thompson and Ogden
Nash have come. They, I am suze,
know that their bastardized poem
forms are not art, nor are they
beauty; but they must feel az I
do that this new puttering of
theirs is preferable to the maudlin mush turned out by their
girls’-school contemporaries. The
fact that their poems have reached paper-covered popularity only
serves to prove that the reading
public is anxious for a new departure, no matter how radical
it may be. Will it be good poetry
or simple slush? I leave that to
you.

Have you caught the message
in this, my cry from the ever-ever
land? Do you discern in these
words some truisms, a breath of
the true nature of things poetical
which has escaped the mortarboarded high-priests? Surely vou
can see that all this prattle and
learned talk of mine is merely a
sugar-coated statement of fact?
The fact that I, being not different, but akin, to you, have written on commonplace, it happensevery-day subjects. My
were not romanticist’s ramblings
nor mysticist’s meéeanderings—
they were an ordindaty man’s
thoughts.

Perhaps’ you may feel that I
have failed to adequately present

poems

 

| IN FINE WATCHES

Friday, January 31, 1947

my disinclination to accept the
fetishes of modern critics. That
is for you to decide, and it is of
little importance. lf my writinue
is weak, it is because poetry, not
prose, is my proper medium of
expression. Being only spiritual
and not physical, I am unable to
write so that you may read, and
as the youth through whose agency
(Continued on Page 8)

Fader’s Drug Stores

29 COBURG ROAD

 

135 HOLLIS STREET
Halifax Nova Scotia

 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
   
 
 
  
  
   
     
   
   
    
    
   
      
   
    
   
   
 

IT’S CHALLENGER

Birks take particular pride in
presenting to Canadains the
Challenger Watch.

It’s accurate

It’s beautiful

It’s long-lasting
It’s not expensive

Canada’s Best Buy in
Watches

Henry Birks & Sons
Limited
Registered Jeweller,

American Gem Society
Halifax, N. S.

 
 

The Editorial Policy ef every
good newspaper judges every
bit of news copy impartially.
It endeavors to present both
sides of a question in an intelligent, brief and concise manner. Keep “on the Beam” by
reading your Daily Newspaper }
. every day. Read

THE HALIFAX HERALD
and

THE HALIFAX MATL

“Two of Canada’s Greatest
Newspapers”

Over 85,000 Daily Circulation.
Read

af

 
  
   
 

 

Pa

 

Page Seven

ier oA TU KR ES

 

No SAK! | CoOmON'T—
| WOULON’T— OVE

OSE STOCKINGS
AND SWEATERS —
NOT For ANY price J

 

 

CATHEDRAL

“Lord bless they chosen in this

place,

For here thou hast a chosen
race.”

George Thorne’s sugyestion,

that Cathedral’s men adopt the
group of tiny Polio patients in the
nearby Clinic, seems to have
carried considerable weight and
during the past week a committee
was formed. George will act as
chairman and Gerry Foster as
treasurer. Others on the committee
include Gerald Hawkins, Eugene
Merry, “Boots” Brown, and Pauli
Harding.

The grapevine informs us that
one Cathedral character, supposed:
ly to study Astronomy, arises at
6 A. M. daily. By coincidence the
nurses next door arise at the sare
hour. We trust that Vince Cunringham knows the difference between Astronomy and Anatomy.

It has also been brought to our
attention that Angus Swoonbure
is being pursued by several Dal
girls. We feel it our duty to inform them that said Swoonburg¢g is
the ringleader of the Booby
Hatch Section, famed for their
criticism of campus co-eds. (remember girls!)

We were on hand at the Millionaires’ Ball long enough to spot
four lovely nurses from the Children’s Hospital in the company of

    
       

alt
:

{(¢*

TA 9 jj i
j

LW Sea)

ASL

=

GB\. Wai:

:

zy

|
.
‘

(COCA-COLA LTD.

Law Notes

Highlight of the week's events
was the monthly meeting of the
Law Society last Thursday. The

most important business, other
than electing a committee to edit
the forthcoming Law edition of
the GAZETTE, was the announcement that playing cards are not
to be thrown around the tables in
the common room, as such activities are seriously thwarting the
smooth operations of the school.
Such dastardly crimes are, it
seems, no longer to be tolerated.
It is hoped by the members of
the Law school that some action
will be taken on the matter of
abolishing the intet+grovincial
bar transfer fees for veterans just
out of law school. As was ably
pointed out at the meeting, these
fees are bringing great hardship
to many would-be lawyers,
Orchids to the interfaculty
hockey and basketball teams who
are keeping the colours of the
Law School flying high in the

leagues.
Rumor has it that the recent
pictures taken by the Pharos

photog. have thrown a jolt int»
some of the legal Casanovas who.
it appears, had a mistaken idea
of their physiognomy until they
saw the prints.

ee
Cathedral men, They would have
provided real competition, had

they been allowed to enter the
contest.

Tey Time out for Coke

a r /
a
ae 3

| soe

“Coca-Cola” and its abbreviation “Coke™
are the regisceced trade marks which
distinguish the produce of Coca-Cola Lad,

jrasounee

The Engineer's Art Appreciation group had a delightful meeting in Math 34 last week. The
meeting was the result of (Freshmen take note) a remarkable’ eample of Cabinet Projection, two
cabinets full of pictures being
projected from the Archives to the
Geology building. If they stay
there much longer they will probably be used to house Geology
specimens—It was thought that
a specimen of calcite was already
there, but it turned ont to be
Herb Johnson's bridgework left
by mistake.

A spirited interfac. hockey
game with Kings resulted in a
4-2 victory, and Graves playing
the role of Chichornia. How he
got the shiner seems rather hazy,
but Shacksters are having very
unkind thoughts towards the little
College.

Social activities were

(Continued on Page 8)

Dent Notes

This corner takes time out to
present a few bouquets to the
Students’ Council, the D. A, A. C,
and Mr. MacCormack for the
great work they have done in
arousing increased interest in
inter-faculty sports on the campus. Not for many years have the
schedules in hockey and basketball been run so wholeheartedly.
Those games arenot only a great
asset to the individuals taking
part but also in fostering closer
associations and tie-ups between
the various faculties on the campus.

INCI-DENTALS:

Coaches Dalton and Dorsey of
the Dent. hockey and basketball
teams ate trying hard to enc »urage “good conditioning’ among

 

very

their teams—the Major especially is all for it.
One of the Dexter twins is

still in love, but after two years
this corner can’t tell which one it
is.

The second year Dents. send
their best wishes to Helen, and
assure her that they are taking a
keen interest in Kings’ activities
during her illness.

 
 
 

a 6 ete —_ agit f=

BULL FIGHT

He stood in the middle of the huge amphitheatre—perspiration
streamed off his face and he reached up to wipe his brow with the
shabby sleeve of his yellow and black jacket. The sun blazed high in
the sky, and not a zephyr destroyed the calm of the hot southern afternoon. As he gazed up at the silent thousands seated in the stands he
pondered on the quirk of fate which had placed him here, in Mexico
City, in the bull ring, soon to be face to face with a bull which came
from a long line of fierce bovines and which was rated as the most
ferocious of this year's herds.

His revery was shattered as a sustained and tremendons roar
went up from the eager throng who had come to the bull-fights to see

the world’s champion bull-fighters in action. Turning, he saw a gate

, Open at the far end of the ring. To his eyes it was as if the very jaws

of hell had opened to turn loose their ferocious spirits. Then he felt
the hair stand up on the back of his neck as he saw the mountainous
creature with which he was to match wits—death to be the stakes.

The proud beast ambled into the sunlight, blinking and bewildered.
Its horns, with their wide spread gleamed in the blinding heat like
polished swords. Its eyes, red-rimmed and fierce rolled in their huge
sockets til they came to rest on the colorful figure of the matador.
Fierce hate showed in the beast’s eyes as it began to move toward the
yellow and black figure in the centre of the enclosure.

The erstwhile matador stood transfixed, returning the bull’s steady
glare as best he could. Nervously flicking his cape he stood Waiting the
charge which he knew the beast would soon initiate. There would be no
need to infuriate this beast with stab wounds from the small wooden
darts which were usually instrumental in goading a bull to anger. This
magnificient animal was quite angry enough. “Damn, double-dama, if
that writer could have left out that bit about me knowing something
about bull-fighting, I would be safe and sound at Dalhousie right now,”
he muttered. “But, no; he had to blow off that our bull-team, namely
me, Was as good as any in Mexico. You'd think the squash-rackets controversy would have been enongh to put him in his place.”

The thunder of hooves on hard-packed earth eaught his attention
and he looked up. There was the bull, almost on top of him. Desperately he jumped aside and the ferocious beast roared past, missing him
with an upward lunge of its horns by mere inches. Now was no time
to ponder on the folly of sports-writers—this was life, and life was
real. He stood in an approximation of the approved matador’s stance
and waved his tattered cape in the general direction of the ponderous
beast which seemed to move about with all the grace of a ballet dancer.

Again the proud bull lowered its head and lunged forward—again
the matador stepped aside, but this time he tried one of the tricks of
the game which he had read in the book. He held his ground until the
last minute and then gracefully side-stepped the charge, flinging his
bedraggled cape into the air with a gesture of bravado. The expresstrain rush had been avoided. After a few more moments he gained
confidence and actually played with the bull, avoiding its vicious charges
with dexterous cape-handling and dance-like steps. A chance of winning the tournament, although slim, still existed.

After a few more passes, the shouts of the crowd indicated that
in order to win the coveted championship he must really do something
out of the ordinary. Wiping the salt sweat from his eyes with the
cape he decided to try the most daring feat of all. It was the “Pass of
Death”. Taking his white handkerchief from the pocket of his ill-fitting black and yellow satin breeches he waved it at the crowd, bowed
toward the Royal box and turning, placed the handkerchief on the
ground and kneeled on it with his back to the bull. Then he waved hia
cape violently. .He heard the thunderous rumble of the on-coming beast.
Closer it came, and closer; his heart pumped painfully.

Then came the realization!—In the book the author had mentioned that the last matador to try this trick had been instantly killed, impaled on the bull’s horns and smashed against the board side of the
coliseum. Desperately he tried to get to his feet and avoid the murderous charge. But he was too late. The bull was on him. Pain atabbed through and through him, birds sang, and bells Bells?. . . . Bell?
Looking about him wildly he realized it was the class bell ringing and
he was being prodded in the back by a pencil. “Come on, chum,” said

hi

 

a voice,”” class is over.”
+ ~~ :
Biary Of Samuel Peeps
Jan. 27: Waking this morning out of my sleep on a sudden, I

did with my elbow hit my wife a great blow over her face and nose,
which waked her with pain and did bring to my mind that Milord Graves
had only yesterday fallen out with Captain Markey of the King’s Guard
and received a mighty clout on the right eye for his troublesome manner. My wife being now more fully waked than is her usual manner she
did inform m> that the greater part of the students at the Kine’s university had been taken with the plague and I could not but laugh at
her clever allusion to the stout body of William Lovett, who it seems
has recently contacted chicken-pox. Up and to the Gym Inn for supper
and then after hearing nothing but talk by wits such as Milord Carrol, I
home and to bedi

Jan, 28: Up betimes and to the birthday party of the missionary
McNaughton wherein there was much mirth unbecoming to a man of the
cloth. Truly I did see a woman of some standing in the community,
whom I shall not name, fill a bowl with spirits, it holding at least a pint
and a half, and did drink it for a health to McNaughton, it being the
greatest draught that ever I did see a woman drink in my life. During
the party I did hear it said that the mysterious lady whom Milord
Crowell has been hiding is none other than the lady of the beautiful
blonde tresses, Lady Jackie Climo. Then, late in the evening, home
and to bed,

Jan. 30: Up in the afternoon, and at my multiplication-table
hard, which ic ail the trouble [ meet withal in my arithmetique. To-day
from my teacher I did hear that the ever-scheming rogue, McDougall
is once more chasing some young lady from the University, I am resolved that the man has no breeding. So, angry, to bed. |

a ee ite

 

 
    
   
 
   
   
   
    
     
      
       
     
     
    
    
     
      
    
    
     
  
    
     
   
    
    
    
   
   
   
   
     
    
  
   
   
    
    
      
    
   
 
      
   
    
      
     

 
 

ined at ihe reguler parthe Men’ s Residence.
‘NOTE: Those who
e by reason of illness to
at any one of the regular
‘should notify this office
tely. Otherwire enclaim. - will be returned to
MA ill will not be availble entil the next regular parade.

  

  

pw .
mae

=
ee cai
BP

  

   

 
 

 

 
 

| canal as application for Mul
se pcn are available, and

oe i be returned before Feb: ee 10.

There are very few
I as :
ee plications for Cathedral Barracks ‘are being prepared, and will
= available shortly.

, ae dents attending under PD. *
7 who .for any reason decide or
obliged to discontinue are re, > Gasated to call on’ the Veteran
: er, ‘and if at all perl on

  

  

  

 

  

 
   

 
 

"VOTE SINKING FUND

_ (Continued from page 1)
is _ also carried ey an over

  

=: rose. to his “feet to quention
"th presence of the large Sinking
and, in view of the fact that our
letic equipment was in poor
_ ‘shape, Tn this he was supported
re ra by "Windy’ O'Neil), who decried

pe the fact ‘that Dalhousie teams
Me ‘should he permitted to appear on
the Playing fields in antique

‘a wear, Dave Doiv. the D. A. A. C.
. ro Prexy, then stated that they had
hee alloted the money. but had
én unable to secure that which
they ‘had red uired.

Don Black then attempted to
a the matter to a head hy
recommending that the digcossion
be set over, to be brought before
| -@ general meeting of the D. A. A.
_--G., Bernie Creighton then brought

# ‘to the attention of the Foram
Prin 4 ‘that there would be a meeting of
r we D. A. A. C. next Tuesday,
LU | Feb. 4 at 2.15 p. m.
. a ‘The chairman then sugested
r that ‘the accrued surplus be, ines in something more pera oe such as Campaign Fond
for building additions to the
Campus and in this he was eup‘ported by Don Black and Mark
“Yeoman,

‘The whole matter was brought
to a head by N. McKelvey, who
moved that the Forum recommend
to the Council, that they approp‘riate from the Sinking Fund the
- hecessary amounts to bring the
_ Athletic equipment up to date.
x This was seconded from the floor

b and passed with a heavy major
  

 
 

  

 
   

   
 

   
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
 

   
 

  

   
 
  

‘ “a: this concluded the business
of the PRE the Forum was

LATHES LEAVE
(Continued from Page 3)

_ Navy. Now that the pressure of
war has ceased, and that adequate
ace has heen provided for the
nee of this training lewhere, the room has once acain
ot en Yeturned to the University.
Becauve of the dearth of library
space Bnd the great increase’ of

 

  

 
 

 
 

  

  

     

ble for a read
= mes -’ ee -_

5 St. % STILL

(Continued from Page 5)

bad numerous breakaways in this

period but failed to beat Mac
Donald in the St. F. X. nets.
First Period

1—St. F. X., Hogh Lyons (Dunc

McIntyre) 5.03,
2—St, F. X., Brother MacDonald

16.00.

3—St. F. X., Colin MacGillivray,
17.00.

4—Dalhousie. “Windy O'Neill

(Bob Wade) 19,15.

Penalties—O'Neill, Brother MacDonald, Cleary.

Second Period

5st. F. X.. Dune MacIntyre
(C. Campbell) 8.57.

6—S:. F. X., Dune MacIntyre
(C. MaeGillvray, H. Lyons) 8.12.

7—St. F. X., Dune MacIntyre
(8H. Lyons) 16.00.

&—Dathousie, Bob Knickle, ( e
Snow) 14.20.

Penalty—Frazee.

Third Period

9—St. F. X., Charlie Campbell
(D. Macintyre, B. J. Cleary) 1.50.

310—St. F. X., Dune MacIntyre
(H. Lyons) 2.39.

Pnalties—Churehill-Smith, C.
Beaton, B. J. Cleary.

Dalhousie—Goal, Roland Timothy; defence, Rollie Frazee, Bob
Wade, “Windy” O'Neill, .““Soup’
Campbell; forwards, ChurchillSmith, Bob Knickle, Bill Brown,
Pau) Lee, “Hap” Snow, Angus
Reid, Ted LeBlane, Don Murphy.

St, F, X. —Goal, Rollie MacDonald; defence, Clem Beaton.
Colin MacGillvray, Ben J. Cleary;
forwards, Dune MacIntyre, Charlie
Camspteli, Hugh Lyons, Brother
MacDonald, Elmer Morrison,
James MacDonald. Charlie Meehan, Alfred Chiasson,

MANY CAPERS

(Continued from Page 3)

and served to dispel the dreary
silence which oftentimes marks
the overlong intermission. The
hearty handshakes of Dr. and Mrs.
Kert, and Dr. and Mrs. Shute
welcomed the guys and gals.

Admission wars by = student
council card.

_ THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

DAL PUBLIC AFFAIRS
(Continued from Page 3) 
Council and the Roya] Canadian
dustrial diseases will pre-occupy
the group for the next two years.

To the undergraduate, the micst
interesting of the Institute’s projects is the course offered in
Public Administration. The
course aims to prepare the undergrad for a career in the Public
Service, and graduates are ready
for administrative positions .in
any major government.

Dalhousians may feel well
proud of their Institute of Public
Affairs, for in many fields, particularly that of labour education, Dalhousie has done the vathfinding for all Canadian Universities.

 

OBJECTION

(Continued from Page 6)

must be satisfied with prose.
You have read this. If you are
a wise person you will have gained in the reading; if you are not,
what does it matter? But be you
wise or otherwise, whenever you
read my poems, or on a grander
seale, whenever you read anything, try to see the writer’s
view-point—not the instructor’s.
By all means study the literary
teachings of the faculty, else you
will fail in your examinations, but
at the same time remember this;
all the great men up here in Literature’s Hall of Fame, are or
dinary persons. j. Isr.

BG. As C.

(Continued from Page 4)

down.”
The Intermediate guards ¢deserve a hand, especially after

Monday night’s game. They seem
to have mastered that zone de
fense alright. After watching
Jocelyn Rogers jumping and intercenting Monday night, we can
Clearly see that it’s not always

the forwards who earn the points.
And speaking of outstanding
guards, freshette Betty Petrie has
been turning in some smart playing on the Senior team.

Interclass dates have been decided on, and are as follows: Feb
4-Ping pong; Feb. 13-Swimming;
Feb. 18-Badminton and Archery.

 

 

% Suarr—Look SMART

ph Dal. thie zoom had

BRYLCREEM

THE PERFECT HAIR DRESSING

% @ Applied every morning, BRYLCREEM will

keep your hair looking smart and well-groomed
all day long. The natural oils in BryLcREEM
overcome dandruff and dry scalp, give the hair
a healthy, natural lustre without that greasy
appearance. All druggists sell Bryicrexm in
the handy, convenient tube. Buy today.

  
 
 
 
 
   

 

tt was 2 good slogan in wer. It is now a good slogan in peace:
“Sey Schwartz and be Sure”. We urge it for your protection
thet you may be assured of the incomparable Schwartz quality
in Coffee, Spices, Peanut - eres. Jelly Powder, Baking Powcer and Dried Fruit,

W.H. Schwartz & Sons Ltd.

Canada’s Oldest Coffee and Spice House
Founded in Halifax in 1841

 

DAL vs. KINGS
. (Continued from Page 4)

In the first half of the came
Dal gave their opponents a hard
fight and the score was only 6-2.
The accurate shooting of King’s
Nancy Jones, who registered 7
baskets with the aid of Joyce
Hart, was too much for the Dal
guards, However, the line starred
throughout the game and there
were no fouls against the Tigresses.

Thelma Aslin with 4 points and
Priscilla Raymond with 3, were
the star players of the Dal team.
Although the guards played well,
the forwards were very disorganized, which showed the team’s lack
of playing experience.

Dal 2:—Thelma Aslin 4, Priscilla Raymond 3, Lib Doull, Marlyn Hebb, Joeclyn Rogers, Anne
Tompkins, Noelle Barter, Rennie
Fisher,

King’s—Nancy Jones 14, Marg
Thomas, Joyce Hart 2, Barb
Smith 4, Hope Bridgeford, Marg
Morgan, Beth MacLaine, Mary
Primrose, Janet Abraham.

T. SQUARE
(Continued from Page 7)
marked over the week end, Prize
surprise was JEisenburg, who
squired one of the most delectable

 

bits of drool-bait of the hall:
Sawyer, Haverstock, and tne
younger Reade made their rare
appearances, probably because it
was free, Rerek Johnson also
showed up with the Engineer's

badminton queen, miss 15-5 herself,

Engineer's turned out in force
to stand ap for their rights at
the Student's Forum on Tuesday.
It was no use, however, since nobody wanted to fight.

Friday, January 31, 1947

SWAMP KINGS
(Continued from Page 4)

 

Dal Maintains Lead

The game slowed down con~
siderably in the second half, with
Dal maintaining their lead for
the first few minutes and then increasing it towards the end of the
game. In this half, the Tigers outscored the Kingsmen 18-10, with

. the points being very evenly dis
tributed in this half, Hannington
leading both teams with 5 points,
Rogers and Dunlop netting 4 eact,
for Dal.

Cal Best and Carl Giffen, play
ing guard for their respective
teams, were towers of strength,
defensively, for their squeals.
while Hannington was individual
high scorer of the game, producing 16 points for his efforts. Dal
points were well divided, Morrison
heading the list with 11, followed
by Pritchard and Giffen with 7
each, and Farquhar and Dunlop
with 6 each. Until he went out of
the game early in the second half
on fouls, Farquhar was key man
in the Bengal attack, setting up
many scores for the Dal team.

A total of 40 fouls were called
in the contest, 25 ,against Dal,
which slowed the game considerably.

— Farquhar 6, Kelly 2,
Creighton 7, Morrison 11, Rosenfeld, E. Rogers 6, Levine 2, Dunlop 6, Pritchard 7, Giffen 2, Algie.

Dal:

Kings: — Ferguson 3, Henderson 3, Cluett, Guy, Hannington 16,
Adams 2, McCabe, Mitchell, Best

CAPORAL
ate?) mat

“The purest form in which tobacco can be smoked”

 

 

 

 

A Message to Party-line
TELEPHONE SUBSCRIBERS

Telephone equipment is still very scarce and manufacturers
have been impeded, during past months, from supplying such
apparatus as fast as they and we would have liked.

By sharing service and equipment, as you do on a party-line,
more people are able to have the benefits of telephone service
frem the lines and equipment at present available.

We are doing the best we can and, just as soon as possible,
will supply single line service to all those desiring it.

Meanwhile, please play fair on your party-line by keeping
conversations as brief as possible, waiting when the line is
busy and giving it up cheerfully in case of an emergency.

 

MARITIME TELEGRAPH & TELEPHONE
COMPANY, LIMITED

 

 

 

|
e

 

           
        
       
      
  
     
        
    
    
      
     
      
     
    
      
     
    
      
 
 

   
  
     
     
    
 
       
     
     
    
  
   
       
   
     
     
    
     
  

  
      
  
  
    
  
 
     
   
  
