UEHIS- WEEK:.....

Page 1.
Page 2.
Page 3.
Page 5.
Page 6.

Hamilton, Rhude, Elected.
Editorial — Peace on Earth.
Campaigns Rouse Campus.
Dal Stops St. F. X.-Cagers.
I. S. S. Conference Report.

CANADA'S

Vol. 7

 

rg

a

OLDEST ‘STUDENT PUBLICATION

Friday, March 7, 1947

Page 7.
Page 8.
Page 9.
Page 10.

 

Med Supplement.

Med Supplement.

Munro Day — 1947.
Prince Lownds Crowned.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

o>
{
a ;
i
re
5
i
a D. A. A. C. President P: & D: S Pre ;
ae tee . G. D. S. President Delta Gamma President
ROSS HAMILTON , HARRY RHUDE WINDY O'NEILL FRANK FLEMMING ELSIE CRUIKSHANKS
: | ie : 932 Exercise Franchise Pr : ENCE
: “The 1. 8. S. Drive for funds IDEN rh
} UNCIL
: has been more successful than we ,
s/f had expected; and if Dalhousie President Law Med Dent. Phar. Eng. Com, A.&5Sc Total
and Kings’ students continue to Hamilton ........ 13. 116 19 20 71 57 275 571
co-operate as they have been doing, ESOMND --scccdhschachns 130 27 11 5 29 91 75 291
it is possible that we might raise te epee 2 7 1 0 6 19 26 60 i HAN DI y
$1,500.00,” said Lew Miller, Vice-President L
* Chairman of the Dalhousie Com- mens \ a> ialieeal = ae hs - 7 69 228 423 As a result of the election held on last Tuesday, an Arts and
mittee of the International Stud- bye Beran 110 10 4 2 7 89 291 Science executive are to manage the Student’s Council for the first time
ent Service. , Se Renter: 2 19 12 56 212 in twenty years. Ross Hamilton will lead the newly elected Council,
at ae Sag temas A awh CF receiving staunch support from the new Vice-President, Harry Rhude.
tion depo erg th ako President Heading the DAAC will be the
ere 7 a avr 2 O'Neill _............. 365 14 14 9 50 76 173 401 Pp li popular Windy O’Neill and the
Jeast $1.25 per Fema Salt ve, MEIER ore ae Gh |e 4 8 610 42-222 arllament Glee Club Prexy will be Frank
i mains in ' the deposit fun d,the McElvey ....,..... ~ 98 4 4 3 il i2 39 167 Fleming, chosen by the Glee Club.
, Vice-President ma C $32 Dal students exercised
: h “ = .
ee eeihen cits ee oe McKeigan ...... 61 33 8 10 8§ 43 87 825 O onvene their franchise at the polls markthis source ‘eldué:> Othar students Knight Rewytyenscavee 40 79 12 2 ] 22 85 252 Dalhousie's first post-war mock ing a new low in the percentage
wrlies. veka. ee das crete babe die Garson: 3 ss.scssseses 24 18 7 4 2 29 61 145 parliament got under way last of students casting their vote in
posits way do so by reporting to Secretary-Treasurer Thursday evening, February 27, the annual elections, This year
Lew Miller at the GAZETTE Knickle 2.0.0... 79 «= «BT 2 6 73 66 130 413 im the Munro Room, at Forrest only 60% of the total enrolement
yt Officce. PURGE ciscivecaseces 23 56 28 7 10 7 71 2992 Campus. The official opening of elegible thought it necessary to
At the time of this report it is Gardner ..........., 13 14 1 1 10 24 25 SR the parliament was attended with take advantage of the opportunity
i : : - aa all the pomp and ceremony evi of choosing next year’s students
not possible to ascertain how much Council, Representatives Plebiecite DF ee atthe

>»

&

7

be

—s

 

might be obtained from the hockey
game between the Kampus Karacters vs the Koed Klippers in
which the Karacters met ignotnjnious defeat. A financial report
listing proceeds from the game,
the Kampus King Dance, the Tag
Day, the Bridge Party and other
contributions will be made in the
next issue of the GAZETTE.

the campaign, approxacai ees students attended a
rally at which the candidates for
Campus King were introduced,
and short addresses were given
ty Al Lomas, the Dal delegate to
the recently held first National

Conference in Toronto, and Lew
Miller.

REMEMBER THE TAG DAY
AND THE) RIDGE PARTY,
AND HELP LIFT THE BLACKOUT ON LEARNING.

 

CASE NO. 310 Barber (pausing during the shave)” “Was your
tie red when you came in?”

Doctor: “No”

Barber: “Gosh!”

CASE NO, 311 And then there
was the. condemned golfer who
asked the hangman, “Mind if J
take: a couple practice swings?”

Law

EH on wiv axatcokevacsunpeocecoes 79

REEUPATS Seb conpeherys <athaneeser- 64
Med

TERT OED oes sisesisssosdeccondnic 102

OED | ops acu rich np nddbdinevaseses>eces 104

AIEEE 5 co cerseoeprdter-czsarounns 72
Dent

PR BEG lisiccsiccciscdiutes acclamation
Pharmacy

Stallard . . acclamation
Commerce

McKinney .........066000 61

RRO isto Poe Reese 36
Engineering

SPURNS 9 cpcciabhadcsaseresvantesis 72

Steeves ........cccccsees ipFdebaexss 71

ERTS + caiststssustentniaetanhé 47
Arte & Se. Senior Boy

MacCormack  ......... ees 265

EUAN (ch cass dnedbuccaushiheae 65
Senior Girl

eee RR oe aaah iy Spanien’ ini 188

Weatherbyeé <...6ccccensn 161
Junior Girl

EGG, Kise. casein sseserasténver ROO

MacKinnon ............:.:665 165
Junior Boy

SINFO vecciosnothiiccnachovvetieaves 179

RNIB Sh. cas nan paneves ayes 152
Sophmore Rep.

MacDougall o.....0.e.ccccieees 209

PEIBR. saccssiersens isesstereaaveite ORS

Question 1.

UR. cnsiastagitalizrs sensed 783
TI <onsoatabuustatenseghecacnns 120
Delta Gamma

President

Cruickshanks ................ 63

WPRUNOOD 5 Soalsiat i hnatte<ikapanies 56
See'ty-Treasurer ss

UPON Ceca sviddesksatieaissti< 66

CAMETON ccvcsrccrscrcsesecsecsss 53

Med Society

President

Van Blaricom .............. 89

DEROIDIIG: siiiensesscasesessives 61
Vice-President

MacWilliams  .........-...6 70

RENTERS. G5 sist telesay hitied 51

WESSON: isk cist sssccsineaceres 30
Secretary

WEIEIE alos lec cdenitonii~ 72

MacDonald ccc. e.ceeseces 42

We BDSUOR ri ninciiviecsetsauns! OG
Treasurer

Mhambers io... cccceesessees 83

CRIMI cececcndecnsevescnssvese 68 .

of the Federa) Parliament.

The Speech from the Throne
was delivered by ‘‘GovernorGeneral” Dean Vincent MacDonald of the Law School. Speaker of the Parliament was Leonard
Fraser.

The firet session was taken up
with the debate on the speech
from the Throne, all parties taking part in the debate. Parties
represented in the House are the
Liberals, led by “Prime Minister”
Peter O'Hearn, the ProgressiveConservatives, led by Leader of
the Opposition Neil McKelvie, the
Cc. C. F. party, led by Vince
Morrison, and the Social Oredit
party, led by Colin Smith.

The positions of Sergéant-atArms, Gentleman Usher of the
Black Rod, and Clerk of the
House were ably filled by Law
professors Thomas Feeney, E. M.
Hancock, and J. Milner respectively.

 

International Student Service
disclosed that universities in Prague are so overcrowded that
lecturers are given at night“in the
city’s theatres,

Old * Dathousie Gazettes, when
referred to, revealed the fact that
the last Studley student elected
to the Presidency of the student's
Council was Myrray Rankine,
Wresent SecHetary Treasurer of
the Student’s Council, who led
the Conncil back in 1926.

In succeding to the office which
has been so competently filled
this year by Clint Havey, the new
prexy, Ross Hamilton led his
nearest rival Bill Mingo by 280
votes. The Vice President, Harry
Rhude, had a majority of 132
votes over his nearest rival, Bob
Webster, and Windy O'Neill gained
office with a majority of 178
votes.

 

CASE NO. 312 “I see by the
papers where a woman sued a
doctor for operating on her husband?”

“What were the charges?”

“Opening her male.”

CASE NO. 313 Did the Nova
Scotian Hotel find any of their

towels in Dr. MacLellan's baggage?
Ans. No, but they found a

chambermaid in his grip,

 
  
  

 

 

CANADA'S OLDEST STUDENT PUBLICATION

 

 

Editor-in-Chief
AL LOMAS (3-4505)

News Features Sports
LAMPERT, P-1 JACK LUSHER DON HARRIS
News Co-Ed Sports

ART MOREIRA LEW MILLER, P-3 FRAN DOANE
Photographer Proofreader Business Manager
DON MORRISON RALPH MacDONALD DON HARRIS
Office Manager JERRY FOSTER
Vol. 78 Friday, March 7, 1947 No. 18

 

PEACE ON EARTH ...

In the days since the end of the War, and the formation of the United Nations Organization, a multitude of
statesmen and diplomats, authors, observers, and lecturers
have written and spoken on the U. N. O. Though theories
and opinions have varied, there has been one factor stressed and stressed again. The United Nations Organization
can not, and will not, achieve its aim of lasting peace without the co-operation of the people of the world.

Last week in Montreal, before several thousand McGill students, Mrs. Franklin D. Roosevelt said, “The
United Nations Organization is the instrument for achicving Peace: it is not the machinery for Peace. It depends
whether ave‘of the world work to create an atmosphere for

_ Peace. ... We must work for Peace as we worked in War.

We must believe in it as we believe in our ideals.”

, Canada has been a selfish nation among selfish nations. In the Bible there is the story of the Good Samaritan. In that story, it was not the thugs who beat and
robbed the traveller that have lived in history as the villjans. Rather, it was on those that passed by: on the other
side of the road, leaving the unfortunate one to lie in pun
and misery, that the shame has been placed. It is possible
that, if the history of our civilization continues, it will be
those nations which pursued a policy of isolationism aind
non-intervention after the first World War, that will reeeive the blame and shame for the Second.

What will be the policy now? Will the world support the United Nations Organization at the front door,
while destroying it from the back with suspicion and hate?
Or is it possible that co-operation on an international scale
will lay, stone by stone, the foundation for the last Lasting Peace?

A large part of the responsibility for the course lies
with the members of the University Community of the
world—for in the University, Truth and Understanding
must be accepted as the basis of education and learning.
{t is to the University that the world will come for its
leaders. It is in the University that understanding and
co-operation can best be fostered on a scale broad enough
to held the Peace, won through six years of war. As Learning is international, so must the student be international,
so, unobstructed by the bounds of race and of religion and
of polities is he enabled to build the Peace.

Today, in the University, there is more than the need
for co-operation. There is one instrument for achieving
it, The International Student Service, its aims at present
obscured by the pressing need for world student relief,
offers international education ‘as the prescription for the
sickness of our world. Whether the prescription will
eure depends upon the extent to.which it is applied.

In a realistic world’ weary of impractical ideologies,
I. $. S. offers a practical solution... All students are potential members. All-may have a-part in its function. Today
there is a three-fold program of, relief, research and international education. Soon the pressing need for relief will
be alleviated, and the International Student Service will
turn its time and energies to education and research “. . .
‘to continue to encourage and support all efforts. . . . in
developing the University as the true centre of national
culture, intimately bound with the international realities
of ONE WORLD.”

Canadian
Campus

STUDENT VOTING

At any university convocation
or gener! assembly a common
phrase used to exhaustion by guest
speakers and valedictorians when
speaking of university students is
“citizens of tomorrow”. During
our college years it is believed
that we form many of the social
habits and group characteristics
which will mark our generation of
‘citizens’ in postgraduate years.

Yet when it comes to voting,
one of the most fundamental ways
a student can show his interest in
and enthusiasm for the part he
plays in the life of his umiversity,
there is a general attitude of disinterest among students at many
of our universities.

NO PARTY MACHINES

Apathetic is a word found
frequently to describe the lack
of student participation in campus
elections. Fifty to fifty-five per
cent is the average section of the
student body to take advantage of
the privilege of electing studentgovernment officials, Campus elections are reportedly not bothered
by the existence of party machines
or pressure blocks; they are not
even bothered by large numbers
of ballots to be counted.

QUIET AT TORONTO

Difference in the form of student-government and method of
repersentation make a comparative survey of student voting difficult; but the characteristic f
apathy seems applicable on many
campuses. At the University of
Toronto voting is reported to be
on the whole, quiet, with the interest varying in the different
faculties. In the faculty of Engineering elections are made gala
events with a dinner, the voting,
and then a mass attendance of the
engineers.at a downtown burlesque
theatre marking the occasion.
Little apathy is apparent in this
faculty's voting.

MT. A. 100

From Mount Allison came the
only report of 100% participation
on the part of students in campus
elections, Here “enthusiastic” was
used to describe the voters’ interest. Another Eastern U, Acadia,
announced that although last year’s
election hit an exceptionally low
mark with only 55% vote-participation, the usual percentage of
voters is around 80% with a great
deal of spirit and interest shown
by the entire student body.

At McGill as at Toronto, voting
is quiet, and here the percentage
of voters is low .Although elect
‘ fons are often keenly contested

and much made’ of student government, actual figures show
student-interest Bpathetic where
voting is concerned. Western
University has noted a falling off
in vote-participation and plans a
new system of government which
will be more representative.

BOMBING AT MACMASTER

Very little pep-rallying and
stunting was reported from the
different campuses with the exception of McMaster which featured a leaflet bombing raid over
the campus, radio broadcasts and
appealing posters. At Western
the preyailing absence of bands
and parades has been attributed
to the increased age of the majority of the students.

 

HELP THE 1. S. S.
BUY A TAG ON
SATURDAY

Friday, March 7%, 1947

NOTICE

THE J. WILLIAM HORSEY GRADUATE
FELLOWSHIP FOR RESEARCH IN.
FOOD DISTRIBUTION

SECOND AWARD
1947,

ELIGIBILITY
Graduation from the Department of Business Administration, University of Western Ontario, or from comparable courses of
equa] standard in the Dominion of Canada.

TENURE

Two years.

AWARD
$1500 per annum plus travelling expenses
entailed by the research.
Applications to be submitted by Ist May
1947,

l'orms may be secured from

DR. K. P. R. NEVILLE, REGISTRAR,
UNIVERSITY OF WESTERN ONTARIO
LONDON, CANADA.

 

“Heat Merchants Since 1835”

S Cunard and Company, Limited

HARD COAL * SOFT COAL
COKE ° FUEL OIL
OIL BURNING EQUIPMENT

HALIFAX, N. S. DARTMOUTH, N. S.

 

 

 

Say SCHWARTZ

and be sure!

It was a good slogan in war. It is now a good slogan in peace:

 

“Say Schwartz and be Sure”. We urge it for your protection
that you may be assured of the incomparable Schwartz quality
in Coffee, Spices, Peanut Butter, Jelly Powder, Baking Powder and Dried Fruit,

W.H. Schwartz & Sons Ltd.

Canada’s Oldest Coffee and Spice House
Founded in Halifax in 1841

TLE ee
Dalhousie University

Halifax, Nova Scotia

 

Largest Staff, Libraries and Laboratories in the Maritimes
The Faculty of Arts and Science

enjoys international distinction
sic |i Nit dls tnd = 383

Degrees of: Diplomas in:
Bachelor of Arts Engineering
Bachelor of Science Education
Bachelor of Commerce Music
Bachelor of Music Pharmacy

Master of Arts Hospi

Master of Science Witte Goa
Pre-Professional Courses

Honour and Advanced Courses in many departments

in oe a oe cauree about $210.00 a year

in the B. A. Course average a

Many valuable scholarships, on entrance aa each eee

Regional Scholarships awarded on the result of examinations held i

February in any Maritime school. Special $600.00 scholarships for H *

our courses in Classics, Mathematics, Modern Languages and Hist ~

The Professional Faculties if

Law, Medicine, Dentistry, enjoy an unexcelled reputation.
ge es egiers id be

Inclusive Fees

- Residences
fomen students live in Shirreff Hall — one of the #; ,
Residences in the Dominion. Residence is provided tic fees ane
in the University Men’s Residence. Other men students live in either
of two affiliated institutions or in selected and approved homes,
Special accommodation is ed for married and single ex-service
students,

Meals for all students are available t rsity
For full information cai 40 eee REGISTRAR.

7 Y ee _

*

 
 

 

 

Friday, March 7, 1947
HART HOUSE...

 

West wing of Hart House, including the Tower.

 

Hart House - Activity Centre

*
.

 

 

Canadian University Press.
Hart House, the two-storied, 80 roomed structure almost in the
centre of the University of Toronto campus, is both a prize and a prob
lem.

Presented by the Massey Foundation dedicated to industrialirt

Hart Massey, in 1919, it is maintained by its members, undergraduates
and graduates, paying an annual $12 fee. There is no private endow
ment,

Hart House has all that contributes to foster good-fellowship
—a library of 5000 books, a Debates room, an Art gallery with a
permanent collection of paintings,
a chapel and a theatre.

There is an Athletic Wing with
rooms for boxing, wrestling,
fencing, squash, an indoor track,
two gymnasia, and a swimming pool
Hart House has a Glee Club, a
chess club, a bridge club, and for
shooting fiends, a camera and
rifle club.

Concerts are given by outstanding musicians, and lectures in
etching, woodearving, and modelling are well attended.

BUT—women are not allowed
in Hart Honse. True, they are on
epecial occasions allowed to enter
the hallowed portals for dances.
That is all. And that is the problem.

The situation might be easier
if there was a building which
women could call their own. Because of the perennia] problem,
they have once again begun a
movement demanding a Tart
House of their own.

New Pre-Med
Society Born

The oft-repeated query of premed students of “Why not a premed society” has at last- been
answered.

 

Wednesday evening saw the
conception of the new organization,
The assembled students were
addressed by Larry Sutherland,
Jack Boudreau, Bob Webster and
the Med Society President Ken

_ The suggestions of

Elected as temporary Officers
tution were, Pres. Hugh Macpending adoption of the constiDonald, See. Lilo Brown and
members at large Gerry Morse

_ and Don MacMillan,

 

VETS BUSINESS
OFFICE OPENED

The Dalhousie Student Veterane’ Association announces the
opening of # business office in the
main bwilding of Cathedral Barracks, with hours from 2.30 to
5.00 p. m..every afternoon, A
member of the committee will be
present during these hours to
answer all questions.

The General Duties Committee
are busy these days sending out
circular letters to all employers
in the Maritimes, endeavouring to
obtain jobs for all Student Veterans. Favorable replies have already been received at the office,
an indication that thore who have
completed and handed in their
employment forms will be placed
in their desired summer employment if at all possible.

Any veteran planning to return
to a job obtained last year through
the association is asked to contact the Vets Office as soon as
possible. This wil help in allocating jobs to all, and at the
same time keep the records in

order.

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

LAL yp

LLY,

=

   
  

CANADA'S

a

Page Three

 

OLDEST STUDENT PUBLICATION

 

Talk Careers
at Gen Nites

By Canadian University Press.

To provide the student at McGill with a more comprehensive
idea of the actual conditions
which he will face after graduation, there has been instituted at
that University a series of meetings known as ‘Gen Nites’ under
the general title of “The University and Your Future”. These
meetings are an attempt to indicate to the student the opportunities open to him in various fields,
the obstacles commonly encovntered, and the type of educational
background which will best equip
him for his chosen career.

To this end—speakers have been
chosen who have made careers for
themselves in many walks of life,
and are able to give the undergraduate insight into his own
business or profession.

Two “Gen Nites” have already
been held, at the first members
of the teaching staff of the University spoke, and at the second,
members of the Civil Service.

 

Electioneering
Rouses Campus

New York’s Tammany Hall would not hold any wonders for the

campaign committees which startled Dalhousie
period prior to this year’s student elections.

students during the
Now that the elections are

over we may be astonished over the results and wonder what great

part publicity played.

 

BOILERMAKER’S BALL
A ROARING AFFAIR

With monotonous regularity the Boiler Fabricators again spawned

the best etruggle of the year.

To your correspondent’s prejudiced eye the crowd was the largest
of the year, and the affair proceeded with typical engineer spontaneity

and other appropriate adjectives.
The music of Don Warner's
Orchestra was never better, call!ing for much swooning on the
deck. One unusual phase of the
dance was a shower of balloons,
labelled with the names of various
election candidates. (I doubt if
anyone could read the names.)
The writer spent time unlimited
with slide rule and log tables trying to discoved their means of
attachment to the ceiling. (Somebody said it was static electricity)
—Darned Clever, these engineers.
Novelty dances were held but
th names of the winners remain
cloaked in anonymity.
Chaperons were Prof. and Mrs.

 

Theakston and Prof. and Mrs.
Bowes,
BUY A TAG ON THE I, S. S.

TAG DAY

 

ENGINEERS EAT ...

 

 

Labour Subject
Of Forum Talks

When—Tuesday last, 9 p. m.
Where—Murray Homestead. Who
—Dal Citizens’ Forum. Topic —
Social Responsibilities of Business. Movies, a fine broadcast,
and excellent refreshments over,
the discussion was on. The opinion of the group split widely on
all three questions. It was, however, agreed that business should
open its books to conciliation
boards, if not to Labour and Government; that some government
control of industry is essential although public ownership might
not be desirable; that Labour
should participate in some aspects
of management.

Pat Conroy, prominent labour
leader, and Wilfrid Eggleston,
correspondent and author, were
members of the radio panel. Adding greatly to the interest of the
discussion was the presence of Mr.
Tom McLaughlin, President, The
Nova Scotia Federation of Labour,
and Mr. Harry Dacey, Secretary,
The Halifax District Trades and
Labour Council.

Next Meeting—Tuesday, March
18. BRING A CROWD.

 

Sawyer New
Society Pres.

At a meeting of the Arts and
Science Society held last Thorsday, Bernal Sawyer was elected
to head the Society in 1947-48. A

Sending out Dave to glean
under-surface stories of the campaigns, the GAZETTE Research
Staff gathered the following information.

Dave's first revelation was that
over the iof.
over a week prior to the elections,
he heard strange harmony floating from the Men's Room in the
basement floor of the Arts Building. The subsequent recording
made under the direction of
Bernal Sawyer, who was boosting
his friend Harry Rhude, was
used with astonishing effect the
day previous to the election when
its strains were heard emanating

oo
irom a ventilator of a class-room.
—The class was dismissed.

Then Dave brought in a story
that Kenty supporters had begun
painting their candidate's «name
on the Gym windows. Dave said
that one of the painters looked
surprisingly like Kenty.

One wonders how greatly amazed Haligonians were on reading
playcards in their street-cars urging Dalhousians to vote for Ross
Hamilton.

i _——eEeE—e

motion passed by the meeting enabled the executive to be chosen
rgardless of class. Elected to the
Society’s executive were: Derek
Griffen — Vice-President, Janet
MacKay—Secretary, Marg. O'Neill
—Treasurer.

Further voting elected Lew
Miller—Debating Manager, Bob
Smith—D. A. A.C. Representative, Jack MacCormack—Sports
Manager, Gene Machum—Dramatics Manager, Marjorie Archibald—aActivities Manager.

President Sawyer and his new
executive apparently mean
as already a new constitution has been drawn up. In a
statement to the GAZETTE on
Mr. Sawyer said, ‘All
contributions to the Society will
be gladly accepted.”

busi
Tle Se,

finances,

 
  

SIDELINES

BY DON HARRIS

   
 
   
 
 
    
   
   
  
 
  
 
 
   
  
  
  
  
 
  
 

_V Well, said he with tongue in cheek (lodged there through dodging
cks), even i if the Canadians have offered to give me Bill Durnan’s
nr ike Dal too much to want to leave. I guess I will finish off my
ée ication first, and then consider National Hockey League offers.
No kidding, the game was lots of fun, although there was a definit p lack lack of organization, (all blame due to this writer) and next year
; Howere, the able to put o na real carnival, with all the trimmings.
owever, the main purpose of the game was realized, since over $125
taken In at the gate, (On behalf of the ISS Committee we would
= to thank all those who helped to make this affair a success, especialty Oil Gis, who sacrificed real hockey for the sake of a good cause).
8 To get back to Sport again, we seem to be coming down the home
Sete in everything. Hockey is all over but the shouting (a trip to
: L writing finis to this year) and the Dal team made a much betthan in the past, winding up their schedule with, perhaps
i? best try of the year, although they were edged out by the powerfal experienced Tech squad.
BASKETBALL SCRAMBLE
In basketball, everything is just one big happy mess. There's more

fun and upsets in this league, than you can keep track of. Everybody
r is beating everybody else with the greatest of regularity, with the result that the league is in a jumbled, almost chaotic state.
a ‘The pre-season dark horse squad, Acadia, have sprung the major
of the season, beating the Dal Tigers twice, and then proceeding
to defeat St. F. X. on the Xaverian home floor, after the Axemen had ab7 d alacing on their home floor at the hands of the X outfit.
> F As things now stand, Acadia needs only to defeat Tech in Halifax
ne weekend to win the League, but, Tech lost by only 2 points on the

| Acadia | floor, and it is just about time for them to beat somebody.
0u | Tech win, then there is the possibility of a three-cornered tie
5. fe the Nova Scotia title. It would be a mess, but it would be lots of

fun trying | to declare a winner, before next year, that is.

DAL — NAVY —

- On the Intermediate basketball] front, Dal and Navy are battling
aft: out for the right to represent/Halifax in the provincial playdowns,
each team having won one contest, with the third and final game sched
 wuled for to-night at the Stad Gym at 7:30 p. m. This is the crucial
_  eontest for the Tigers, and they would welcome all the support which
Dal can provide.

The Dai Girls basketball deserves a great deal of credit, @r their
excellent showing in the City League, which title they won last Tuesday.
The Co-eds are trying to set an example for their male counterparts,
cand we hope the boys are susceptible t othe title-winning germ.

HAMILTON WINS

The Dal Badminton tournament was run off this week, and Noel
0 Hamilton, freshman from Saint John, waltzed away with top honours
$n three divisions, Hamilton gave an exceilent display in copping his
+ erowns, and will lead the Dal Intercollegiate squad in their defense of
the Maritime Intercollegiate Badminton Title at Mount Allison next
_ week. On the strength of his showing in the Dal tournament, this corner

would venture to predict a repeat performance for Noel in the Interoo  .), collegiate. Tournament, if he maintains the standard of play which he

has so far exhibited.
(= .....AND AWAY WE GO
Dal teams seem to have the travelling urge all at once, since ‘Gold
and Blac’ representatives will hit the road for Mount Allison for Badminton, to St. F. X. for boxing, to U. N. B. for swimming, to St. Dun1 ‘stans in P, E. I for hockey. Dependent upon the outcome of the games
a this weekend, the basketball squad may also hit the road. To those of
ous who earlier berated the Council for not providing money for trips,
‘onions, and orchids, to those responsible for the travelling arrangements.

   
 

 

 

  

“

  

 

“What's this ‘Perfection . . . Check «/' in Sweet Caps?”
“Sis tie beet weoking diecovecy yet ..::
Light up and enjoy it.”

| SWEET CAPORAL CIGARETTES
shinslaven: hth agheaaciaaan'

  

Dal-ll, U.N. B. 8

SPARKED BY THE
SHOOTING OF PAT
SNUGGS, DAL CO-EDS
DOWNED U. N. B. 11-8
IN AN OVERTIME
CONTEST IN THE GYM
LAST NIGHT.

CO-EDS COP
CITY TITLE

The Dal Senior Co-eds captured the Senior City Ladies Basketball championship Tuesday night

 

in the gym, when they defeated

the Kings Co-eds, 21-11, making
their second consecutive win of
the best of the three series,

In the first half of the game,
the teams were very evenly matched, with the score at half time 8-7
for Dal. However in the last half,
the Tigresses showed their true
ability and outscored the Kings
girls by ten points. Irene Robinson,
who led the Black and Gold with
twelve points, played an excellent
game both up the floor as well as
under the basket. Leslie Anne
Hayes and Betty Petrie both starred on the guard line.

Nancy Jones stood out for Kings,
through her skill and agility scored
six points.

Dal: Pat Snuggs 3, Fran Doane
3, Marg. O'Neill 3, Irene Robinson

12, Betty Petrie, Leslie Anne
Hayes, Verna Leonard, Elsie
Cruickshanks.

Kings: N. Jones 6, J. Hart 2, M.
Thomas 1, B. Smith, J. Bradshaw
2, M. Morgan, A Harrington, B
Maclaine, L. Abraham.

Axettes Win
2nd Contest

The Dal. Senior Tigresses met
their second defeat of the season
when they were defeated by the
Acadia Axettes, 33-11, last Saturday afternoon in the Gym.

The downfall of the Dal. coeds was chiefly due to their slow
and inaccurate passes. The forwards, because they were so
heavily guarded, were unable to
get in close enough to the basket to make many of their shots
score. Marg. O’Neill with five
points, was top-scorer for Dal.
while Fran Doane, with three
points, made a close second.

Line-ups:

Dal Marg O’Neill 5, Fran Doane
3, Irene Robinson 2, Pat Snuggs
1, Betty Petrie, Elsie Cruikshank,

Syb Pentz, Leslie Anne Hayes,
Verna Leonard.
Acadia: P. Churchill 14, L.

Walker 2, M.
MacDonald 6, M,
M.

Lockhart 1, J.
Brooks 10, M.
Stevens, S. Stirling, B. Zinck,
Hawkes, V. Edgecomb.

    

CASINO

AN ODEON THEATRE

 

Starting Sat., March 8th.

“Magnificent
Doll”

Starring
GINGER ROGERS
DAVID NIVEN
BURGESS MEREDITH

 

Dal evened up their series with
Navy for the City Intermediate
Title, last Friday, as they downed
the Stad men, 43-31 on the Navy
floor, The Tigers were much the
better team in this contest, as
they completely outplayed the
Navy, both defensively and offensively. The Dal guards, Carl
Giffen and “Rug” Pritchard gave
a sensational demonstration of
defensive ability, as they outplayed their taller opponents, completley controfling the play around their own backboard.

The first half was all Dal, as
the Tigers ran roughshod over
their opponents, led by the accurate shooting of Blair Dunlop,
who hit the hoop for 6 field goals.
Half way through this session,

ever March 7, 1947

   
  
 

  

DAL DOWNS NAVY 43-31

the Tigers led 12-4, as the Navy
proved ineffective in their shooting, and the Dal squad increased
this margin to 26-14, at the half
time whistle,

For the first 7 minutes of the
second half, Dal again held complete mastery over their Navy
opponents, running in 11 points,
while limiting the Stad outfit to
1 field goal.

Navy finally found the range
towards the end of the game and,
led by Heath and Coe, fought
back to even up the scoring in the
second half, putting in 17 points,
the same number as the Tigers
registered in the second session.

On the night's play, Dal scored
20 field goals and made good on

(Continued on Page 5)

 

DAL LOSES TO ACADIA

Acadia Axemen maintained their
jinx over the Dal Tigers, as they
soundly trounced the Dal represenatives, 35-23, at Wolfville last
Monday, in a ragged exhibition of
basketball.

The Axemen, were definitely
th better team, as they scored
the first basket, and were never
headed during the remainder of
the game .The contest was a lowscoring one, with the Tigers unable to break through the zone
defence set up by their opponents
while Acadia used -their superior
height to advantage.

The first half was all Acadia,
as the Axemen, led by E. Demont
and MacPherson, rolled up an &
point lead. The Tigers tried
many long shots but had little

success with them, only Farquhar

and Pritchard scoring from long
range. The half ended with
Acadia leading 17-9.

The Tigers fought back strongly in the first part of the second

half, coming within 3 points of
Acadia at one stage of the came,
but again the Acadia squad used
their height and re-established
their lead, adding to it in the
last few minutes of play, the final
score being 35-23.

Totals for the contest were:
Acadia—16 field goals and 3
fouls out of 11 tries; Dal — 7
field goals and 7 fouls in 19 attempts. Dal had 11 personal fouls
called against them, while 19
were called against Acadia.

Demont led the Acadia hoopsters with 11 points, closely followed by MacPherson and Bailey
with 9 and 8-points. Farquhar

and Pritchard were high men
for Dal with 9 and 6 points respectively.

Dal: Dunlép 2, Farquhar 39,
Rosenfeld 2, Morrison, Levine 3,
Giffen, Tanner 1, Pritchard 6.

Acadia: Irvine, E. Demont !1,
Bailey 8, Poole, MacPherson 9,
MacNeil 3, R. Demont 4.

 

GIRLS’ 2nd TEAM LOSE

Dal Intermediates bowrd to
Acadia Axettes in the second of
a two-game, total point series,
played here on Saturday, thus
sending Acadia off to compete
with Mount A. for the Maritime
Intercollegiate Intermediate Title.

The Tigresses showed plenty of
fighting spirit in the game, but
were outplayed by the crack Axette squad. As the play progressed, the margin between the two
teams became greater, at the
half time the score being 13-6 for

Acadia, and at the end of the’

final frame, 23-13.

Lib Doull played an outstand-,
ing game for the Tigresses, netting 8 free throws and one field
goal, while Priscilla Raymond,
chalked up 8 points to be top Dal
scorer. Rennie Fisher and Jocelyn
Rogers, on the guard line, did a
fine job of intercepting many of

 

Servicemen who have returned
to the University will find their
civilian life, at...

SHANE’S
MEN’S WEAR SHOP
112 Spring Garden Road

Whether sporting, collegiate or
social wear, they can be met from
our full lines of clothing. ~
the Acadia plays.

Lou Dunphy of Acadia play
her usual, brilliant game, tallying 13 points, followed by Thelma
Clew with 8 points.

Dal: Aslin, Noftle, Doull 5,
Raymond 8, Barter, Fisher, Rogers, Tompkins.

Acadia: Dunphy 13, Wilson,
MacKay, Herven 5, Clew 8, Vinson, Wright, Nowlan, MacDonald.

SHANE’S
Shoe Store

HIGH GRADE
SHOES

Fitting A Specialty

 

397 Barrington Street

HALIFAX, N. S.

Phone 3-6010

 

Oxford Theatre

Mon., Tues., Wed.

“CENTENIAL

SUMMER”
Cornel Wilde, Jeanne Crain

Thur., Fri., Sat.
“Our Hearts Were
Up”

Growing
Dianna raced Gail Russell

“Johnny coun
Flying Home”

 

 

 

 
I

*

“f
_ Friday, March 7, 1947

 

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

 

_ DUNLOP AND PRITCHARD
LEAD TIGERS TO WIN

The on-again, off-again Dal basketballers were hot Saturday night
as they handed the St. F. X. Maritime Champs their first defeat of the
season by a score of 41-34. The Tigers piled up a top-heavy lead in
the first half, and although they took it easy at times in the seeond
canto, they always had enough to hold off the visitors when they had to.

~~,

4

him o

-:

Rugged Ruggles Pritchard was
again a big factor in the Dal
vietory, coming up from his guard
position to cage 12 points. Whalen
was ontstanding for St. F. X. and
tied Pritchard for leading scoring honors.

For the first few minutes the
two teams swapped scores on
fairly even terms and at the five
minute mark the score was 6-5
for Dal. Then came three straight
baskets by Pritchard, Levine and
Giffen and the Tigers had sturted to pile up a large score. Before the visitors had recovered
themselves Dal had a 19-7 lead.
It was 23-10. at the half time
Blair Dunlop, with 6 points was
the half’s leading sharpshooter.

The Tigers started the second
half in a somewhat different frame
of mind. They had themselves
rather awed by their great lead
and didn’t recover until St. F. X.
had scored 7 straight points and
had climbed to within 6 points of
Dal. However the Tigers came
back and upped their lead to ten
points until St. F. X. started
another run on the home forces
and came within three points of
tieing them. But Dal again demonstrated their ability to come
through in the pinches, and Dunlop and Pritchard combined to
score three baskets and sew up
the contest. Final score was 41
34.

Line-ups:
DAL: Dunlop 10, Farquhar 4,
Rosenfeld, Levine 4, Tanner,

Morrison 6, Giffen 5, Pritchard
4g,

ST. F. X.: Whalen 12, Ritchie g,
McNeill, Propper 7, Kyte 1,
Mooney, MacLean, Miffen 4.

Ko-Eds Win ?
In Crazy Game

Preceeded by much honest
ballyhoo, the Kampus Karacters
finally met the Kampus Ko-Eds
at the Forum Wednesday night,
and went down to farcial defeat.
The only person who could dispute this decision is Don Harris,
who could claim, and with some
justice perhaps, the puck could
not be put in an upside-down net.
And when Nancy Jones tried to
score Mr. Harris would stretch
himself upon the goal crease and
Kitty-bar-the-door. However Nancy
did get a goal, ee by the

ised Yeast Corporation,
Tap of the Karacters felt that
a hockey game did not fully satisfy their competitive instincts and,
complete with chairs and tables,
proceeded to engage in a game
of Poker at centre ice. Referee
Lew Miller, handed out @ penalty
to Boudreau, of the apron, 
hing, and there were no mo
Soar ania until Mr. Miller
emerged from the penalty box.

Bernie Creighton lost one roller skate and then he lost his
balance. Patty MacKinnon was
abducted and laid upon 4 atretcher. She was then dragged around
the ice as fast as small Art Hartling conld drag her .

One flaw present throughout
the proceedings—lack of organization. Another year the various
gags and antics should be direct
 

ed from a master of ceremonies
in the box.

 

Tech Defeats
Tigers 6-3

The Tigers shelled the “Peanuts” for the first two periods,
but couldn’t hold them in the
third when they scored four goals
and led the Tech aggregation to
a 6-3 win over Dal. It was Tech's
second win over the Tigers, but
the Dal team displayed far better
form than in their previous game.
They made Tech fight all the way
for their win, and the issue was
stil in doubt until late in the
game.

The first goal was scored by
Windy O’Neill who was one of
the outstanding figures for either
)- dom. Windy mucked right in
after taking a pass from Malloy
and put the puck in the net. Al
MacDonald tied it up a few minutes later on an unassisted rush.
In the second period the teams
again split a pair of goals, and
again it was Dal who took .the
lead. Knickle scored on the first
play of the period and it wasn’t
tied up until 18.27 when Murray
dented the twine on a three-way
passing play. Ferguson got the
first goal of the last period from
Chouinard and although ChurchillSmith tied the count from O’Neill
at 9.05, Ferguson sent the Tech
puckchasers ahead for good at
9.39. Chouinard and Toner ended
the scoring.

SUMMARY:
First Period
Dal: O'Neill (Malloy) 8.16
Tech: MacDonald 11.05
Penalty- Churchill-Smith (highsticking) 12.16
Second Period
Dal: B. Knickle (CharchillSmith) .15

Tech: Murray (Thomas,Daigle)
18.27
Penalties- Wade (elbowing)

2.25; Crosby (charging) 7.35;
MacDonald (tripping) 12.14
Third Fidriod
Tech: Ferguson (Chouinard) 1.45
Dal: Churchill-Smith (O'Neill)
9.05
Tech: Ferguson 9.39
Tech :Toner (Chouinard) 11.52
Tech: Chouinard (Ferg.) 15.40
Penalties- O'Neill (major),
Martin (fighting) 12,14;0’Neill
(charging) 18.20; Wade (fighting) 18.55
Stops- Timothy, 41; Flemming,
19,

DAL vs. STAD

(Continued from Page 4)

3 out of 12 foul shots, while Navy
scored 12 baskets and 7 out of
12 foul tries. 11 fouls were called against each squad, with Dal
losing Dunlop, via the personal
foul route, with four minutes left
in the game.

Dunlop and Rogers topped the
Dal marksmen with 14 and 11
points while Heath and Coe led
the Navy with 15 and 9 points respectively.

Dal: Farquhar 4, Morrison 2,
Creighton, E. Rogers 11, Dunlop
14, Levine 2, Giffen 5, Pritchard
5.
Navy: Deakin 2, Heath 15, Coe
9, Russell 2, Seppala 2, Colbert
1, McBain, Campbell, Thackery,
Lumley.

Page Five

 

T.F.X CAGERS STOPPED BY DAL

 

 

THE CLIMO TROPHY

 

To be awarded annually to the
Dalhousie Student who best embodies the qualities of athletic
ability, clean sportsmanship and
team spirit. This is the first time
euch an award has been made at
Dalhousie—and has this year been
made possible through the generosity of Mr. C. H. Climo, long
interested in Dalhousie. Presentation of the Trophy will be made
on Munro Day, by Mr. Climo.

CAMPUS
ROUNDUP

By WINDY O'NEILL

The Dal students proved enthusiastic about the contest of
one-act plays for the Connolly
Shield, although a campus with so
many groups should produce more
than four. We wont know which
group will hold the award for this
year, till Munro Day, but on the
performances, we think that the
Shield should be given to Professor Bennet for his monologue
of criticism, which had the large
group in attendance rocking with
laughter.

v © ~ *

Poor old Sammy Palnick! He
is the forgotten man of the race
for Campus King. No fair damsels have been flitting around the
campus with their gaily coloured
bottles, soliciting votes for Samvel, He has all the qualifications
to be King; hair—well greased;
eyes—only two; teeth—can eat
an apple through a picket fence;
neck—not unless given the chance.
He also is a master at cutting out
paper dolls and is a virtuoso on
the comb and tissue paper. To become Mrs. Palnick, only two
qualifications are necessary—she
must look like Lana Turner and
have a million green pictures of
(Gporge. Sammy is gqtting our
vote, Sy

® be * o

There is a story about, that one
of the Dal students got up one
morning, turned on the radio and
heard an appeal for clothing for
China—so he gave all his clothing.
Then, the ISS came along asking
for money—so he gave all his
wealth. He chanced to enter the
Gym Store and met a Red Cross
girl who soliciting blood — the
student has now taken it on the
lam to the nearest hermitage.

oe A © o 7

There has been a real resurgence of that old Dal spirit and it
promises to increase next year.
However, its too bad that Dalhousie is split by different factions
and faculties. The Dal girl’s basketball team would probably be the

INTERFAC NEWS

Hockey

FINAL STANDINGS — Sec. “A”

TEAM PL W TLE A Pts.
Medicine 8 6 1 2 26 18 11
Engineers 8 61 2 33 25 11
King’s 8 33230.22 9
Law 8 30 5 26 24 6
Commerce 8 11613 39 3
Section “B”’
TEAM PL WTLFEFQA Pts.
Pine Hill 8 611 42 24 13
Dentistry 8 413 28 30 9
Pharmacy 8 313 31 39 7
Frosh 8 22441356 6
Arts & S.. 8 215 24 42 5

 

ENGINEERS va KINGS

Intrefac Hockey

In a see-saw game at the Arena
Thursday, Engineers held an understaffed King’s team to a 3-3
tie. King’s wag ahead twice, 1-0
and 2-1 but Engineers tied it up
both times on goals by Flynn and
a fluke score credited to Isnor.
Graves shot a nice goal to put the
Boflermakers jin front, but the
best goal of the game was scored
by Piggott from McKillop to knot
the count. King’s was swarming
around Harvey McKeough at the
end but couldn’t score. Kings
first goal was scored by Fitzner.

Acadia Wins
Over Dal

The Dalhousie hockey . Tigers
were a one-period outfit Saturday
at Wolfville as they were outscored 10-6 by the Axemen. Dal
scored all six of their goals in the
second period after trailing 5-0
at the end of the first. However
they couldn't keep it up and Acadia scored four goals without a
reply in the third period. Crowell
scored three times for the Axemen
and MacVicar and Bagnall scored
two. For Dal Angus Reid, Dave
Churchill-Smith and Rowlie Frazee
had two each and Brown and
O'Neill got credit for two assists.

Despite the absence of Jimmy
Gray, the Axemen outplayed the
visitors in the first and last periods
and that was enough te-win the
game. Sparkling the Balhousie
team were Chaurchill-Smith at
centre and Windy O’Neill on defence. Crowell, Lightfoot and
Bagnall were big factors in the
Acadians win.
see
best in the Maritimes if King’s
had not elected to, also, have a
team. Nancy Jones and Joyce
There is also a feeling in certain
Hart would make Dal a powerhouse, but with the two teams on
the campus neither is top-notch.
facuties that it will go hard on
anyone who plays for the varsity
teams. As the new spirit progresses, we think that these difficulties
will die out.

 

     

ALUMNAE LOANS
The Dalhousie Alumnae wish
to inform the women students
of Dalhousie that there is @
loan fund from which they may
borrow in order to pay certain
college expenses, such as tuition. For information about
this loan fund please call Mrs.
Pond, 18 Oakland Road, 3-6206.

——————————OOOO

~EVANGELINE |

TEA ROOM
Commonly known as JOE'S
280 Quinpool Road
HALIFAX, N. 8.

 

Basketball

HIGH SCORERS

Gp. Pts. Avg.
Jim Morrow (Eng) 12 159 13
Don Rogers (Eng) 12 129 11
Frank Rogers (Com) 9 126 14
K. MacKenzie (A&S) 12 125 10
Jim Darcey (Dents) 11 122 11
G. McCurdy (A&Sc.) 10 120 12
Dave Peters (Dents) 11 108 10
M. MacDonald (Frosh) 6 101 17
Lew Bell (Law) 12 89 7
K. Roddam (Law) 10 74 'T

TEAM STANDING

Pr W.. te Baa
Medicine i2 10 2 320
Engineers 12 > ss
Law 12 8 4 16
Arts & Sc. 12 8 6 12
Frosh 12 5 1 439
Dentistry ie 2S eS
Commerce 12 "2 ie 4

MEDS TRIM A. & Sc.

On Tuesday, Meds gained the
right to step into the Interfaculty
Basketball finals, by eliminating
Arts and Science with a 37-34
victory. Meds had previously de«
feated the Studley crew by a 37-24
score in their first match, and Tuesday's win gave them the round by
16 points.

The Meds ran wild in the first
half to score 28 to 8 for the Studleyites. The Arts and Science boys
came back fighting mad in the last
half, with a complete reversal of
form, outscoring the Meds, 26-9,

Meds: Stevenson 2, Deacon 9,
MacLennan, Morton 4, Williams 8,
Cox, Ashley 10, Foster 4, Epstein,
Moffat.

A. & Se.; James, McCurdy 5,
Shatford 5, Knight 5, K. MacKenzie 14, Gillis, Fraser 1, MeLeod 4,

ENGINEERS 47 — LAW 20

The Engineers got off to a flying start in their semi-final series
with Law as they outplayed the
embryo lawyers in both halves to
defeat them 47-20 and thereby
carry a convincing 27 point lead
into the second game of the twogame, total point series. Unless
Law can pull the greatest upset
of the season, by defeating the
Boilermakers by more than 27
points in the ‘next gamp, then
Meds and Engineers will meet in
a two-game, total point series for
the Interfac crown.

Engineers: Bauld 6, D. Rogers
14, Duff 8, Morrow 15, MacWilliam
4, Powers.

Law: Hart 2, Smith 8, McKelvie,
Roddam 5, Grant, Matthews lI,
Bell, Hatfield 4, Hickman.

MEDS 37 — ARTS & Sc, 24

In the opening game of the
Interfac Basketball semi-finals,
Meds came through with a 37-24
win over Arts and Science. The
victory gave Meds a 13-point lead
going into the second game of the
two-game, total point series,

Meds: Stevenson 11, Ashley 2,
Williams 4, Morton 6, Deacon 6,
MacLellan 4, Cox, Foster 4, Epstein, Moffat.

A. & Se.: McCurdy 2, B. MaeKenzie, James 1, McLeod 2,
Cochrane 2, Knight 8, Shatford 4,
K, MacKenzie 5, Gillis, Fraser.

 

Fader's Drug Stores
29 COBURG ROAD

135 HOLLIS STREET
Halifax Nova Scotia

 

 

 

 

 
 

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE Friday, March 7, 1947

And Then There Were None

He became aware of the rain-drops tinkling against the remaining pane of glass in the dark opening
which was the window. The acrid smell of brick-dust and gunpowder filled his lungs, and the terrible darkness seemed to press against him. He coughed, the sharp sound echoing through the empty ruins.
“Strange”, he thought “that coughing should hurt his face so much”. Slowly as in a dream he raised his
hand to his jaw to probe for the cause of the pain. As he felt his mangled feature, child-like, he whimpered.
He cried, softly ,and salt tears mingled with the drying blood. The dull ache began to throb and fill his whole
being with a pulsing horror and he thought that he would like to pray but he’d tried it before and just
then merciful unconsciousness claimed him. The rain continued to beat against the brave little pane of

glass.

= Page Six , ;

*
z
é

First Canadian
1.S.S. Meet Held

By AL LOMAS .
Two weeks ago delegates from 12 Canadian Universities met in
Toronto for the first Canadian conference of the International Student
‘Service, In attendance were representatives from three American
i. Universities, a delegate from the World Student Service Fund, members
. a of the Canadian Committee, I. S. S., and observers from several other

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

student organizations.

BE, A. MacDonald, Canadian Committee Chairman, opened the
plenary session of the conference. An agenda was adopted, and a report of the Canadian Committee read by Gordon Campbell, Canadian

Executive Secretary.

The next phase of the conference was one of the most interesting
and valuable of the entire two days. Delegates from Halifax to Saskatchewan read reports from their local committees in a presentation of
"J. SS. Across Canada”. Toronto delegates pictured a relief campaign

per student.
REPORTS HEARD

MeMaster indicated the neuclevs of I. S. S. activities apart
from relief drives—in internationa} correspondence, discussion
groups, and libraries. University
of Western Ontario. ... “I. S. §.
is one of the most important student organizations on our campus.” Financial support from the
Student Executive Council... .
wide range of activities. . . . aim
of $1.00 per student for relief.

From l'Universitie de Montreal
came reports of complete I. S. 8.
organization—to such an extent
that each ten students has an organization to collect 25c per student per week for a four week
campaign period. From Ontario
Agricultural Coflege, University
of Saskatchewan, Queen's University, Ottawa University, came reports that I. S. S. was new on the
Canadian campus, but that it was
rapidly achieving an importance
far exceeding its age.

1. S. S. FILM SHOWN

Following this, delegates heard
reports on the Student Service of
America, and special reports to
the Conference from European
groups. A film, displaying in
graphic terms, the work of I. 5.
§S. in establishing and maintaining a student hostel at Cambilonx,
and a sanitorium at Leysin, -was
shown. Resolutions and reports
on organization, finance, public
relations, were heard and considered, and the conference was
split into four commissions to
consider specific items.

Sunday morning these commissions met, and for four hours
talked, argued, and eventually
reached complete agreement. Here
was the climax of the conference.
Here was actual policy for the L
&. S. Decisions from the Commission on International Education included co-operation with
such organizations as the Pax
Romana, World Student Relief,
i, UL 8.4. .-0., the U.N. O,,
UNESCO and others. Suggested
co-operation with foreign filmbeards, collaboration with the
National Federated Council of
University students, a pool of
public speakers, promotion of International Relations Clubs.
ONE FROM DAL TO HOLLAND

From another commission came
a constitution for the I. S. S, in
Canada, and another for each
local committee, A third commission laid down standards for
selecting students to represent
Canadian Universities in student
exchange schemes, their choice on
& representative basis (Dalhousie
will have at least one delegate
going to Holland this summer)
ami methods of financing such exchange to avoid dipping into relicf
funds. <A final commission cvtned plans for a cross-Canada I.
S$. S. month, plans for better pub
lieity of the aims and work of I.
S. S., and for closer contact with
students in other countries,

That afternoon these resolntions were ratified by the Confer
He awoke with the dull, grey dawn. Rain still fell and he was cold, and hungry. He looked around

rubble,

 

CATHEDRAL
COMMENT
The good news has broken out
that the Munroe Day Committee
has honoured Cathedral Barracks
by selecting Lilo Brown as. our
queen, and I'm sure the Judges will
do both Cathedral and the campus
greater honour by making her the
Munro Day Queen. The boys originally hoped to vote for our re>resentative, but when Lilo was
selected we were glad we could'nt.
“The flower of England’ (to Quote
Rusty Milne) can now become the
Queen of Dalhousie.

conducted among 13,000 students which resulted in an average of 40c

ence in session. The most striking feature of the Conference was
the realization by all the delegates
of the immense scope of I. S. S.,
and their honest attempts to
reach agreement rather than compromise. That students from
vastly different sections of Canada were able to meet, and, having a singleness of purpose, were
able to agree seems a most significant factor. In this case Canadian provinces co-operated. Someday nations of the world, with
only a ttle less in common, will
be able to meet to discuss, to
argue, and eventually to agree.

him. There was the gun in the corner, the barrel twisted, the ammunition mags partly buried under the
Occasionally little avalanches of red dust spilled down from the pile of pink bricks and plaster
which had once formed a partition in the two-room building.
smashed roof, and the rain kept up its incessant hammering at the little glass square, the survivor of the
eight panes which had originally made up the window.

Streams of water ran down from the shbel)
Inch by inch, he turned on his side, and raising himself on his
arm, looked over the pile of debris. Where the south wall had once
blocked his vision, he could now see straight down the hill to the valley
where he knew there was help. If only they’d come up and get him.
God, how his leg hurt. Funny, he thought, yesterday, or last night, or
last year, or whenever it was, my face hurt, but now its my leg.

It was quiet in the little house. Too quiet. Only the rath drops,
splashing on the little pane of glass interrupted the silence. He had
once more passed into insensibility.

Three times during the day he returned to the world of pain and
horror, and each time he crawled a few feet closer to the gap in the
south wall. Then, as he rested, the realization came that with the advent of evening, the enemy would start to shell again. He peered at
his watch, which, miraculously, was working. It was late; too late.
Desperately he tried to pull some of the debris over on top of himself.
Anything for protection. He screamed hysterically as he tore at the
pile of brick and timbers with his bleeding fingers.

Then he heard it. A thin piercing scream developing into a fullthroated roar. The shell hit the house with a blinding, searing crash.

The rain continued to fall, with a soft murmuring sound. The last
pane of glass, lay with its companions, shattered, on the ground. The
tinkling sound had stopped.

 

“Of -course,” said O'Toole reflectively, “certain aspects of the
business lead me te think that all undergraduates are incurably mad. On
the whole, however, it is an excellent institution, and one of which the
students should be careful. As I was saying, however...”

“Look,” J interrupted. “If you're going to jaw all day about the
abstract benefits to be derived from Munro day I shall leave as of now.
Come on.” |

He rose obediently, and we strolled towards the Gym Store, where
coffee of a particularly stimulating nature is served to those who want
it badly enough. It was the sort of spring day on which you feel an
unholy urge to throw your books into the Arm,and lead a coup d’etat
against the University for having classes in the spring. Several frosh
were gambling on the green (behind the Gym) and the whole atmosphere Surrounding the campus was one of benevolence and good spirits.

“On sucha day as this,’ quoth O'Toole, ‘The celebrations are held.
Gawd, you-should have seen some of the ones I have. There was the time
three Communists tried to blow up the Gym. And then there was the
famous “King” episode. That was quite an affair, that one; let me tell
you about it...”

We settled down before two cups of brew, over which were suspended two cigarettes; O’Toole grunted contentedly, and began his tale,
fortified by a swig of the coffee followed by a drag off his weed that almost burned the whole thine.

“In the days when McGosh still chronicled, and when the governments on this continent were fighting the people’s losing battle against
strong drinks, it was the custom on Munro Day to select a Queen of

NF.C.U.S. Notes

To further acquaint students
with the National Federation of
Canadian University Students
here is a brief summary of its

past,

N.F.C.U.S. was first formed at
a conference at MacMaster University in 1926. The organization
continued te operate until 1940
when it wat discontinued due to the
war. During this period N.F.C.U.
S. obtained a very good reduction
on play royalties. The cost of
athletic equipment was studied and
a reduction of 33-1-3 per cent on
all equipment was obtained. Debating was promoted on a wide
scale, teams were brought here
from Australia and South Africa.
Canadian debating teams were
sent to the United States and
Great Britain. In 1938 a plan was
put in eperation where a third
year student could spend a year
at another university and return to
his @Wn universty to gradiiate.
The Canadian University Prass
was organized by N.F.C.U.S, This age OR > .
organization is g@#so responsible ay
for the reduced railway rates ;
which students now enjoy.

 

P “Coca-Cola” and its abbreviation “Coke
are the registered trade marks which
distinguish the product of Coca-Cola Ltd.

Of Munro Day

Munro Day. It was just as it is today; a committee of strong-willed and
influential men sought frenziedly for a girl good-locking enough to be
the “typical” co-ed. Typical—ha!

“One year they ran short of strong-willed men; the others had aj}
died in the attempts of former years, and only nitwits were left. The
Politburo of the Council called in Emma, and asked her to take charge
of the situation. Emma really took charge; she elected herself a committee and told them to put up a panel of men for King.

“The whole business had been pretty hush-hush, and on Manro Day
the undergraduates were shocked, literally shocked, when they saw half
a dozen specimens of what was supposed to be masculine pulchritude
standing on the stage. There were cries of annoyance, and shouts of
anger, The President of the Council strode up to protest, but was floored by one of the candidates, a six-foot horron who felt insulted by the
demonstrations. Well, a regular putsch began; agitators from the C, C.
C. C, were busy rousing the rabble in the lower Gym, and Conservatives
were serving free milk with the slogan “‘No Men, Dammit.” The dencuement came when the C, C. C. C. rabble tried to go upstairs, the Conservatives tried to descend and the President of the Council, unable to arise
due to a headache, sank down again, and the other two groups clashed
violently on the stairs. It was beautiful; but the powers didn’t think
so, and the political groups on the stairs, still pushing, were carried off
to the local Bastille, and the President of the Council went to sleep.”

At this point the bell rang, and O’Toole siched.

“Damn these philosophy classes” said O’Toole, and left.

SEPTIMUS.

  
   
   

Friendly
refreshment

   

COCA-COLA LTD,
Halifax

 
 

- Society oe

 Soelibdiniteny: speaking this has
: _ eon a successful year for the
widents Medical Socidty. We
seen numerous films, have
enjc yed several parties, have had
a successful banquet, and have
carried on the society business in
the usual manner, And yet, on
r i looking back, these activities were
earried on by only a small minority of medical students. Why this
indifference of so many toward
es extracurricular? Is the
individual entirely to blame, or
can some blame be attached to a
system onder which the demands
of the curriculum are so great
that there is no room for outside
activities?

Sir William Osler, in his famous

  

~

a

 

put

ss PRESENTING —

 

KEN MACLENNAN,... . our
genial society president, to whom
and to his executive goes credit
for the succesful past year. “The
Monk”, has his fingers in many
pies—is President of his class, is
president of his fraternity, has
been a council member, has played varsity football, and is now
active in interface basketball.
Knowing that in the fature, as at

present, Monk will be in the fore,
we say “thanks again” for a job
well done. :

Jaen
7

essay on Student Life said that
the hardest conviction to get into
the mind of a beginner is that the
education in which he is engaged
is not a college course, not a medical course, but a life course for
which the work of a few years under teachers is but a preparation.
Again in the same essay ‘‘cultivat.
ed systematically, the student
societies, the student union, the
gymnasium and the outside socal
circle will enable you to conquer
the difference so apt, to go with
bookishness and which may prove
a serious drawback in later life.”

To-day the man with the highes*
marks is graduated at the top of
his class. While commonly he is
the best all-round man, this is not
necessarily true. This is not to say
that high marks are incompatabile
with those other traits of personality which are seen in the most
successful men in the profession,
Such is not the case. Nor is it
logical that the playhoy with an
average of fifty-five should be the
leader of his class. But it is felt
that a healthy admixture of the
two—eurricular and extracurricular—produces the best type of
graduate. Hence why not judge
a man on the basis of both?
Could not twenty-five percent of
his average be totalled from
extra-curricular activities having
the remainder as it is? Such
things as hobbies, attitude toward
medicine, of dress, speech, interest in societies and social activities, etce., instead of being a
hindrance as many of them now
are, would be assets to the student,
assets that will take him farther
than many of his marks. As for
the mechanism, why not a committee of fac@ty and students
which would judge each man when
third year is reached?

T'+i] we can defeat the present
attitude that books are the entire
structure of a medical education,
until we can achieve the abolition
of slavery to the curriculam, we
are falling short of perfection in
complete medical education.

 

__ Faculty Facts...

The ranks “de facultate’’ have
heen swelled this year by three
new members—Dr. Chester 8B,
Stewart as professor of epidemjology, Dr, Robert W. Begg as
assistant professor of Biochem/  Zgtry and Dr, Dan Tonning as as
sistant professor of Medicine:

Dr. Stewart after graduation
in ’38, was a co-worker of Sir
Frederick Banting, in the research field. He entered the airforce, where his work was focussed on aviation medicine, After
discharge from the service in 45

he studied public health at John’s.

Hopkins University, following
which he came to Dal.

Dr, Tonning comes to us with a
very impressive ‘record, and although having graduated only

in *38, his reputation as an In
oo eg widespread, Prevthe Med, Staff at

‘
ine

  
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
  
 

tet wwosetst eal, ow will be

he served in the paratroop division
of the Canadian Army, and went
overseas in 1944. With the cessation of hostilities in Europe, Dr.
Beger accepted a scholarship in
pathology at Lincoln College,
England, after which he joined
the staff at Dal.

The appointment of Dr. Clyde
Holland as. professor of medicine,
‘was certainly a gratifying one to
the student body, for his keeness,

‘ability and interest in the stunts, has long been appreciated,

The work of some of the more
recent additions to the staff, particularly that of Drs. Charlie
Beckwith, M. G. Whillans, Richard
Saunders, Hal Taylor, “Tabby”
Bethune, and others, not to mention their very active interest in
the students, has been greatly appreciated by all concerned.

In regard to senior members—
Dr. Allan Curry’s appointment as
head of Surgery has proved to be
a wise one—the work of Drs, Colwell, Gosse, Mackenzie, “R. P.”,
Wiswell, Carney, Atlee to mention a few, goes without mention,

With such an eminent and re
 

_ Page Sevei

WHY VETS Men Of Distinction ...

TAKE MED —

It has been said that the boys
that camé marching home in 191819 to the tune of “Good Bye
Picadilly”, the few who entered,
or returned to college, often did
not make much success of it. A
marked contrast then is presented
by those who came back humming
“Lili Marlene”. Thousands have
enrolled in the colleges of the
country, and of more significance,
are holding their own with the
people they found there.

The results are first, that the
profession will soon have a goodly number of veterans in ranks—
and since the training of these
men has been slightly different,
it will mean more new and radical
ideas. The second result is that
the country’s treasury is being
spent to pay for the education of
the veterans, the actual amount
of this expendature being roughly
$6,000 for each Med Student, or
approximately $60,000,000 being
paid out for all student veterans.

Why should an ex-serviceman
take medicine? Probably his
reasons are not very different form

those of an ordinary student. The

study is intensely interesting as
everyone is interested in_ the
human body and its workings. The
field is unlimited-—a lifetime of intensive study will make a man
master of only one small corner
or give him a mere familiarity
with the whole terrain. The
average doctor is secure financially, come boom or depression.
He enjoys a respected place in
society, and his opportunity of
service is unparalleled. Most of
the chaps wanted to be doctors
before the war, so their careers
were merely interrupted. Some
perhaps had always cherished the
idea and now the opportunity
presented itself, as they could
now perhaps hurdle the financial
barrier. Perhaps many, while in
the service, discovered the desperate need of doctors, and in this
way were swayed to make their
choice.

The Canadian soldier was reknowned for his resourcefulness
and initiative. A certain famous
Ist. Division Colonel said he required two things of a soldier—
“colour and dash,” by which it
was generally conceeded he meant,
independance and individuality.
The Canadian doctor is famous
fer breaking new ground, the Canadian exserviceman M,. D. should
certainly not fall down on that
score. Above all the ex-serviceman learned to be practical—his
life depended upon his resourcefulness; this too should help the
ex-serviceman doctor in his years
of practice, where resourcefulness is the kéy note.

Why veteran’s should study
medicine probably doesn’t matter
so much—the fact is that they are
studying it, and apparently with
success, The service lessons of
“passing the buck” and doing the
least possible work certainly do
not apply here. The ex-service
man realizes this, ahd as a result,
the cogs in a machine that worked
well, are showing they can do an
equally goad job as individials.

= A VET.

 

International Student Service
found at Vienna that « plate of
dry noodles and potetoes with a
bit of lettuce, is the usuki fare
of "Viennese, weadenge =

 

 

enumerate.

in his chosen work.

IAN RUSTED... Or “Rusty”, as he is more commonly known, took his pre-med at Toronto U. His
rise to fame at Dal was presipitated by the McGiillDal racket, (or-quet). No slouch scholastically,
Rusty has been a CAMSI representative, has been
a member of the Dal tennis team, and in addition
sings a mean tenor, Currently in fourth year
Med, Rusty is a character to be reckoned with in
the future.

DOUG ROY.

mighty fourth year. .

BRUCE MILLER . . . Coming to Dal in the fall
of '44, Bruce lost no time in making himself quite
at home. Now in his third year, Bruce has had one
year on the Students Council, has been president of
his fraternity, Phi Chi, president of his class, has
played interface hockey, and has been no wall flower
socially. The keen head and jovial character which
he possesses, will make his ultimate Ssuccéss a
certainty.

   

 

BILL MORESIDE ..

 

self in the Medical profession.

JACK BOUDREAU ... A Halifax boy, who during
his Pre-Med at Studley and his two years Med. at
Forrest, has become a well known personality on
the campus, Whether it is Munroe Day shows, student elections, Glee Club, Newman’s Club or cheerleading, you will always find “Boud" out in front.
Next time you hear the second year Med quartette
strike up, take a look, for there too will be Boud

holding forth.

GEORGE HILL .

 

ties,

HAROLD TUCKER .. . Coming from Mt. A,, Hal
boasts the record of varsity football and basketball. In the interim between Mt. A. and Dal, he
Was overseas as a lieutenant with the Canadian
paratroops, Invariably at the top of the class
scholastic standing, versatility is his password; now
in his first year med, Hal will be one of the
foremost men of his class, both curriculerly, and
excurticularly. 
 

LARRY SUTHERLAND ... Came to Dal in ‘40.
Since then his experiences in committees, executives, fraternity, ete., are far too numerous to
President of the Students Council,
Vice-President of the Council, Vice President of
his class, Secretary of the Med. Society, Chairman
of the awards committee, could be mentioned as a
few of the positions Larry held. Outstanding in all
departments, Larry should raise to great heights

 

. An old Mt. A man, Dugger cume
to Dal in '43, and entered campus activities with
much gusto. Intercollegiate football,
cheer leading, interfac sports, Monroe day committees, Glee Club shows, and even a dabble inte
politics have all been Dugger’s lot—and at no expense scholastically, for “when the roll was called
up yonder’, Dugger was there close to the top of
. Best of luck, Dugger!

band work,

 

Ls

< oS

. Hailing from the Island,
Bill took his pre-Med. at P. W. C. Now in his
third year, Bill has been the main cog in the
champion Dal Tennis team for two years, has nlayed varsity hockey, plays trumpet in the Dal dance
band, and has somehow managed to keep up his high
scholastic standing. An all round good fellow, Bill
will have no difficulty in making a name for him
 

-« Our amicable friend from
Pictou took his Pre-Med and B. A., at Mt. A. While
there, he was the intercollegiate boxing champ, as
well as starring in both hockey and football. During the war, Squadron Leader George, made an
outstanding record, and was presented with the
D. F. C. and two bars. Now busy in his Medical
studies, George still finds time to play interfac
hockey and take part in other excurricular activi
 

 
In The Lighter Vein...

MED BASKETBALL TEAM

 

Left to Right:—Williams, Ashley, Roy, Moffatt, Deacon, MacLennan,
Foster, Stevenson, MacWilliams, Morton, Cox, Epstein.

 

SPORTS

As the term comes lo a close,
we must, of necessity review the
year in sports—which we can do
with more than a modest share
of pride.

After being “gyped” out of our
rightful ownership of the interfac football award in the. year
1945-46, it was decided to build a
Med “steamroller” which would
go down in history, composed of
old masters such as Carten, Epstein, MacLennan, Allen, Grant,
Thorpe, Roy, Saunders, MacDonald, Giffin, and backed by
newcomers such as Vair, Tucker,
MacKay, and others. Needless to
say that on four different occasions the opposition failed to appear, so, discouraging as it was to
think of Law, or some other
minor faculty, winning the crown,
the Med team bowed out of the
leagne without having played a
game.

The Med basketball team however has completed the league in
its rightful place—at the top!
Two complete forward lines, sparked by old timers such as Stevenson, Deacon, and MacLennan,
playing in front of capable guards,
makes this team the team to beat
in the coming playoffs. The mere
fact that although they are at the
top of the heap, and not one player is in the highest ten scorers of
the league, is an indication of the
type of teamwork being played.

In interfac bockey, a

(Continued on Page 10)

similar

Twenty Years

Then & Now

Little did I think back in 1947
that fourteen Dal Meds would
finish out their careers by heroic
sacrifice in World War 3. How
I would like to recount their tales
of glory, but I musn’t forget that
I write for you who still have to
mess around in the present and
good taste forbids such tactlessness.

Let me tell instead of those who
still carry on their professional
careers. It is interesting to note
how Guss and Erie C. developed
and perfected the Artificial Kidney. The Duke is still down in
China doing stuff that learned
surgeons hesitate to tackle around
here. Still remote and slow to
adopt new methods, Abie Levitz
and Ian Rusted did seventeen
prophylactic appendectomies in
one busy morning. Greg Nieman
is chief of staff at the N. S. Hospital, Dartmouth.

Clinie teams which deserve mention are Kevie and Burdett,
gynaecologists, in Montague; C, 8.
Wright Sr. and Jr., with 3rd. now
entering Dal.

Joe Cantwell is Provincial pathologist; Jim Frazee is President
of the C. M. A.; Reg. Eaton is
trying to get out of the Navy
since they stopped serving the
dail “smash’’; Jack O’Neil donated a million dollars to Dalhousie
Medical School, which Al. Mercer,
the new Dean, is trying hard to

(Continued on Page 10)

 

MED, INTERFAC HOCKEY TEAM ——

ov ee a +8

 

Alley, Geax, MacKay, Thorpe, Deacon, Miller; McK eough, Vairi Moffatt,
Gif tid, Stevehy¥on, Roy, Morebide.

THE DALHOUSIE CAZETTE

Health Clinic

Interlude

Act 1. Scene 1.

The taking of the History

Dr, Holland is seated behind his
desk; the patient enters.

Doc. What seems to be the
trouble? (aside: Mm. .. Referred
by Dr. Jones. . . Must be another
psych... )

Patient: I don’t know, Doc. [
just feel weak.
bones hurt and I get a funny
buzz over my left shoulder (Aside:
Why should I tell him. . . Let him
find out himself. . . He’s the doctor... 3

Doc. Uh-huh (Aside: Uh-huh)
Patient: I think it’s something
I ate. My cousin Joe had it, ulsters
or something, so I brought his Xrays for you to see. (Aside: I
should have gone to a chiropractor)

Doc. Hm, (Aside: Mm) Ever
had allergy? Smoke much? Worry?
Ever have Sinusitis, Paget’s disease or Diverticulitis? (Aside:
Lucky I read that article by Dr.
Atlees last night. . . | wonder if
this could be Mulavian Crut?)

Act 1. Scene 2.

The Physical Examination

(A nurse hobbles in with a stenopad to record the findings.)

Doc. (Dictating) The examination is that of an adult male, witit
no dyspnoea, cyanosis or obvious
coma (Aside: He would be horizontal in coma) Heart valves can
stand re-check for carbon and
valve job. Rattle in rear lung. We
better do daily smears for the lune
uke to check on that buzz over his
left shoulder. (Aside: This is a
bunch of bull-roar—I wonder,
could this be Mulavian Crut.)

Act 2. Scene 1.

The Consultation. 3 Months Later.
Our hopless hero has returned to
find out the results of the doctor’s
studies. He has been probed and
scrutinized, X-rayed and analysed—but no results. Three quarts
of blood have been taken for the
various tests and two small transfusions given to keep him going.
The doctor figured that this whole
affair must be psychosomatic and
suggested a psychiatric consultation.

Peychiatrist (Affably): How's
everything going? You're looking
fine: (Aside: I’ve seen more meat
at the dinners at the men’s Residence)

Patient Not bad: I was worried
when you couldn't track down that
barium enema, but I’m sure it will
show up after a while. (Aside: I
wo'nt tell him about losing 24
Ibs. « ~ - let him find out for himself)

Peychiatrist: How’s you sex life?
Drink much? Many wild dates
(Aside; As if it matters - - - Referred by Dr. Jones—probably
another psycho.)

Well our time is up for to-day,
see you again. (Aside: I wonder,
could this ‘be Mulavian Crut?)

Act 3: Finale.

The Autopsy. Not much later.
After a steady downhill course
the patient died. R. P. Smith, the
pathologist is probing to find the
cause of death.

Pathologist: What ceems to be
the trouble (Aside: Referred by
Dr. Jones . . Must be a psycho.)
He removed the liver, spleen, and
any other organs lying around.
Hm. . . the organs are all grossly
normal, He turns to the audience:
The diagnosis, Gentlemen is not
all evident( Aside: I wonder what
the devil died from?)

Corpse: (Ghost only, slowly
arising from the slab): I wonder
equld thig bave been Sub-Acute
Mulavian Crut? 2? 2???)

 

My head aches.

Friday, Mareh 7, 1947

Socially Speaking ...

This heading fn any column brings only one thought to the reader’s probable cerebral permutations:—per say, the much talked of
National Health Insurance or other form of Socialistic or State Med
icind,

But herein, to wit and to woo—it refers to nothing less than

the many agreeable and sometimes nefarious activities of the student

bedy in the Medical Faculty.

Perhaps it was the softening influence (on the brain) of the balmy
fall weather which prompted the Society executives to instigate, for
the first showing and approval of the campus—the Med Fall dance.
A howling, hooting, harrowing hall of hoodlums was the final outeome,
and the remarks solicited revealed the affair as an unqualified success.
To Larry Sutherland, that outstanding figure of the women’s campus,
goes most of the credit for the smoothness of the function, the soft
ness of the lights, not to mention the musie of Don Warner.

The real

power behind the scenes was the ever forceful and powerful “Dugger”

Roy—they are still telling “Stevie”

 

Materia
Cornica

CASE NO. 306 A young medical interne had a habit of walking past the ward each
morning. In the yard of the ward
the inmates was always
through the

up and pitching an im
psycho

one of
going

winding
aginary ball.

motions of

“Why do yon stop every morning and watch that screwball go
through
one of the doctor's friends finally
asked him.

“Well,” he replied, “if things
keep going the way they are, I'll
soon be out there with a glove
catching for that fellow, and I
want to get on to his curves!”

CASE NO. 307 The doctor
called to see one of his ulser
patients who was being fed by a
rectal enema,

his pitching motions;’’

“Doc”, said the patient, “Have
you another tube like this at your
office?”’

“Why yes” replied the doctor.

“Good” said the patient, “Bring
it down some time and have dinner with me.”

CASE NO. 308 A typsy
medical student called up Dr.
Wasserman of national fame and
when the good doctor answered
the phone said, “Hello, is this Dr.

Wasserman?” the voice said,
“Yes,”

Asked the student, “are you
positive?’”’

CASE NO. 309 Hostess (to

Polish soldier guest): “And have
you any children, Captain Wilenski?”’
Pole: “No, we ‘ave none. You
see my wife is inconcievable.”
Hostess: “Er—do you mean per
haps—?”’

Pole: “What I meant to say
was she is impregnable.”

(A moments’s silence) “No,
I see zat is not correct.”

(Triumphantly) “Now I ‘ave

it. She is unbearable.”

that he was also there!

Following the break for Yuletide festivities the Forrest Campus
buzzed with rumors and counter
rumors of the long promised Med
Banquet. Finally after many false
starts the much awaited event
took place on the 27th of February, 1947, in the sumptious
setting of the Nova Scotian BallDr. A. W. Kleiforth, the
General for the United
States to Canada, was the eminent
speaker of the evening. His talk
on experiences in the foreign
fields of the diplomatic service of
his country left no doubt in anybody’s mind of the necessity for
a really sincere and honest United
Nations Organization. His graphic
picturization of the political and
military forces of the European

room,

Consul

continent, left a vivid and lasting 
impression of man’s inhumanity
to man—and the only workable
cure as yet devised by the mind
of homo sapiens, lay in the security and effectiveness of a world
unification, which linked and
limited the future would be empires in their quest for power
and supremacy. Thanks to Dr.
Kleiforth for a very worthwhile
evening. Among the prominent
guests attending, were Dr. Grant,
Dean of the Faculty, Dr. Kerr,
President of Dalhousie, Dr. R. O.

Jones, Head of Psychiatry, who 
made a masterful introduction of
the speaker, and last, but not
least, was our cool and guiding
chairman, “Monk”? MacLennan,
President, whose apt remarks
were very much appreciated.

Tonight culminates the social
activities of the Medical  studenta#—THE MED BALL. Last
years’ wonderful affair does not
need to be recalled, as it is still
crystal clear in the memories of
those who attended. Need more
be said. Attend this evening and
see for yourself that the 1947
edition is bigger and better than
any of its predecessors.

 

International Student Service
is not a2 movement but a service.
It means help to students from
students.

 

.

 

 
   

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Page Nine

 

  

NOELLE BARTER
Phi Kappa Phi

Ps : ‘~~ > Sy’ < «
Cen Fa

JOYCE MADDEN
PHARMACY

UNRO DAY 1947

ANNE TOMPKINS
Arts and Science

  

JEAN PARKER
Engineers

 

*
MARGARET GOODE

Men’s Residence
i

»

f

4
: IRENE ROBINSON
#
' Dents

x

-¢
'
[
, 2 oe

 

t

'

; —

| JOAN MYRDEN
Commerce

| ~~

P

| >

'

i

_—*

GENE MACHUM
Phi Chi

 

From This

Tuesday, March eleventh marts
the official end to another year of
Dalhousie’s extra-curricular activities, when for the day books,
classes and professors are forgotten in the happy celebration
of Munro Day,

Let us not forget in the midst
of our fun to pause and pay
homage to the benefactors of the
university who through their generous contributions have made our
attendance here today possible.
Munro Day is a university holiday
set apart in honor of Dalhousie’s
benefactors and is named after
George Munro who made an outstanding contribution to the university in the critical, infant stages
of its development. There will be
a Founders’ Day service in MacDonald Memorial library at two
o’clock, that we, present Dalhousians, may .honor our great bene
 

LILO BROWN
Cathedral Barracks

Gal - lery 
factors.

Then to the gym., where the
inter-faculty basketball play offs
and the annual boys-girls classic
will be played.

New on this year’s program is
the quartet contest. It is not too
late to place your entry with AI.
Blakeney so why not get three
friends and join in the fun?

Next is the event you've been
waiting for—the presentation of
the Munro Day Queens by their
sponsors, from whom an imposing
panel of professorial judges will
pick your campus queen.

Another new feature this year
is the serving of supper by Canada Caterers in the Men's Residence. A wonderful menu has
been planned which includes everything from apple juice to ice
cream. The price is fifty cents.
Boys, Make a date with your campus queen for the Munro Day
supper.

During the meal hour there will
be supper dancing—squate and
round.

The |Queen

The first part of the evenings
festivities will include the presentation of the new council, awarding of Gold D's and then the curtain will rise on the Glee Club's

last production of the year—
the annual Munro Day show.

The presentation of university
awards will follow, the most
significant of these being the
Malcolm Honor Award presented
to the graduating student who
through unselfish devotion of
time and talent in the service of
their fellow students best follows
the example of Jimmy Malcolm,
a former Dalheusian who gave his
life in-an effort to rescue a friend
from drowning.

The judges decision will then
be announced and Queen Dalhousiana 1947 will be crowned, attended by a bevy of charming ladiesin-waitine.

Your Munro Day Committee: for
1947 consists of Doug, Roy, Chairman; Marie Milton, Al, Blakeney,
Phil Raymond, Bill Ogilvie and
Liz Reeves.

 

PART I ORDERS:

Syllabus Of The Day

2:00
Library.
2:30 Basketball Game.
Girls Game.
3:30 Quartet Contest.
4:14

Inter-faculty Final.

Founders’ Day Service, MacDonald Memorial

Boys
Munro Day Queen Contest.

5:15 — 7:15 Supper and dance. Men’s Residence.

Presentation of new council. Alumni President.

7:15

7:30 Awards

8:00 Glee Club Show.

9:15 Awards. Crowning Ceremony.
9

-45- Dance. Don Warner’s Orchestra.

JESSIE MORRISON
Law

 

 

EILEEN CANTWELL

King’s

 

KATHERINE MacKINNON
Sigma Chi

 

Phi Rho

 

 
   
 

       

| 1LS.S. Drive Tops
$1.000 Mar

\
| Crown Prince Russell Lownds wae coronated Wednesday night ic

 

the Gym. 1. S. S. activities are almost at an end. The Ice Sensation of
the Nation has been played. And Dalhousie has topped the $1000.00
mark. The J. S. S. drive has been a success. At 10:30, Wednesday
night, amidst a fan fare (7) of trumpets, the Royal maroon curtains of
the stage parted. I. S. S, Chairman Lew Miller opened Coronation

ceremonies,

Crown Prince Lownds was de| corously escorted to his throne.
| Attired in the family plaid, in
herited from the Earl of Chapel
Bay, he mounted the steps. Then
from a tiring room stepped Queen
Terry McLean to place the crown
on the Brince’s princely dome.
The King was crowned—long
live the King. Amidst the skirling of bag-pipes of one of the old
family retainers, King and Queen
marched gravely around the Coronation Hall, and the ceremony

was over. Lownds had brought
$220.00 into the coffers of the
aereas cS. 8

 

TWENTY YEARS

(Continued from Page 8)

National Medical Adviser. In
Hollywood, Doc Morton took
over as “Kildare’’ from Lew

] Ayres; while Stu and Al MacLeod
| are travelling from country to
country trying to get away from
« Health Insurance. Thats all for
| now boys—lI’ve got to go and do
a vatve job on a leaky mitral.
spend; Lauchie had cut down his
practice 1 help look after his
family of ten—it was too much
| for Nancy alone.
f “Boud” is an ardent Independent,
M. P., and George Hill is C. C. F.

 

  
  
  
   

STUDENTS MEET at

DIANA SWEETS
TEA ROOM
368 Spring Garden Road
Toasted Hot Doge, Lunches
and Fountain Service

| Corsages

: A “Colonial”
signed

 

de.

RO ALE

" speaks eloquent volumes
of tenderness and

love,

  
   

NURSERIES Limited ..
38) seeRincton s7. nALEAX

 

pureahse of new equipment.

 

Council Votes
$6939 of Fund

The Student Council at a meet
ing held Wednesday night, appoint
ed Bernie Creighton, Freshman
Representative for 1947-48. The
results of the surplus fund plebiscite were heard, and officially

ryoted upon—a “meve which gives

the University $5000. towards ‘ts

three million dollar fund drive, and

the D. A. A. C., $1939.00 for the
After
long discussion the lists for awards
were passed, with few exceptions.

Further business refused a
$506.00 gift te the D. K. S. V. A.
‘o establish their summer employment bureau, but made the
offer of 2 loan for the same
amount, Deadlines for applications
for editor-ship and business mansger of the GAZETTE and
PHAROS were set at midnigat,
March 18. New President Ross
Hamiliten attended the meeting

 

Dine at

The

Green Lanters
The Sign of a Geod
Meal.

 

THE
CAMERA
SHOP

26 BLOWERS STREET
HALIFAX, N. 5.

Everything
Photographic

 

 

i i es =

 

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

" . Ad *, Lo 5 +
. : eI 7 ‘4 ee . mn - » . . : : q
~ . 4 . " eS 7 . : ’ 7
— : a Bens ' rs e ao i a he
. o : cs he . al . : . - Paci
Py = - - oe “ a ; .
; . pine eee oe y ; va : 2 . ae amen
- ane” oo \ * A . ‘ >
Sees Be : ; 5 a: < i ta .
% , KOS ae - Sees, ae oD pr “Bee . : en , ”
' BS , eT, oot a ee = Ata Ve
" " « wed x - et r os wet . 5 ean A sti ™>. 5 . _ 2 eS 6
ae » ae 7 os —— . me A ane C1 Te atte et
. oS a ee sy Fa eee BOE EEE Sree

Forestry And

k Flying At UNB

By the C. U. P.

The campus of the University
of New Brunswick extends over
8.625 acres, of which 3,600 is
exceptionally fine timbered for the
use and enlightenment of some
420 forestry students. Daily, the
high-booted, plaid-shirted he-men
of the faculty of forestry disappear into the tall timber behind
their foresthy building carrying
axes, tapes, compasses and frying
pans. The result of all this coming
and going is not only the best of
Forestry graduates but also a
supply of firewood for the woodburning boilers of the university.

Many strange tales are told of
what the forester does out there
in the woods. Most deal with his
total lack of culture and ignorance of anything but forestry and
inflammable beverages.

U. N. B., it seems, is also taking to the air. The New Brunswick Flying Club was founded on
March 1, 1946 and now the Brunswick Birdmen possess a Taylorcraft. They hope to see aircraft
clubs spread to other Canadian
universities.

 

“EXPORT”

CANADA*S FINEST
CIGARETTE

Friday, March 7, 1947

 

   

 

:
SPORTS

(Continued from Page 8) BIRKS DIAMONDS ARE

, 3 BRILLIANT!
mention a few, the hockey crown
should likewise find its way back It is often said that Birks
to Med school. diamonds are more brilliant

This does not leave much space but why should this be?

for intercollegiate sport; . Bob Birks experts grade their

own diamonds and select only
those whose color, purity and
cutting will insure extra brill- i
iancy.

MacDonald’s football, Carl Giffin’s
and Gordie Algie’s basketball,
and Bill Moreside’s and Ian
Rusted's tennis, have all been a
valuable aid to Dal sports.

Keep it up Meds——
picture is seen—the Med team
finishing in a tie for first place.
With stars such as Moffatt in
goal, Vair and Thorpe on defence,
and forwards MacDonald, Moreside, Giffin, and Allen, just to

Be Snarr— Look SMART

BRYLCREEM

THE PERFECT HAIR DRESSING

® Applied every mornmg, BryLcresm will
keep your hair looking smart and well-groomed
all day long. The natural oils in BreyLcreem
overcome dandruff and dry scalp, give the hair
& bealthy, natural lustre without that greasy
appearance. All druggists sel] Bryicreem in
the handy, convenient tube. Buy today.

HENRY BIRKS & SONS
LIMITED

Registered Jeweller,
American Gem Society
Halifax, N. 8.

 

 

 

 
  

  
 
 
 
 

 

FAVORITES SINCE 1906

Moncton, N. B.

Halifax St. John Quebec Montreal

 
