
   
     
 
   
 
 
 
   

| aNeves

VOL, 78.

4

 

OLDEST STUDENT

FRIDAY, JANUARY 24,

1947

   

PUBLICATION

No.12

 

THIS WEEK

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8

University Fund Drive
Editorial on I. S. S.

Premier Honors Dal

Dal Wins and Loses

Co-eds Win Two Games
Literature and the War Effort.

The Yodeller
Council Financial Report.

 

3,000,000 GOAL SET BY UNIVERSITY

 

Forum Group
Urges Changes

In Radio

Despite the slightly inclement
weather and previous engagements
sixteen thinkers out of seventeen
hundred students assembled round
the conference table to debate the
subject “How could Canadian
Radio better serve the public Interest?”

The first question, concerning
the criticisms and suggestions for
improving the programs of Canadian radio, brought forth a lively
discussion. The group decided that
on the whole, the public received
a fairly well balanced diet of
music, drama, commentaries, etc.,
but that we could do without such
things as singing commercials, It
was also thought that variety
shows should be carried from the
American networks in greater
numbers as public service features.

It was decided, with reference
to the system of broadcasting, that
having both public and private radio stations is preferable, but that
there should be a regulating body
above both types, since the CBC
is a competing organization, and
can draft regulations to its own
benefit and to the detriment of
private stations.

Next week all the amateur
newspapermen ‘and others should
be out for: “Is There Freedom of
the Press in Canada?”

NOTICE: The Editors have
been receiving, from time to
time, numerous complaints as
to the nature of the material
appearing on thie page, particularly those dealing with
political matters. The complainte may have been justified, but if they are true, and

“pur publications have been
inferior, it has been largely
due to Inck of student cooperation. We are eure that
there ie no lack of literary
talent on the campus, and we
ask anybody whe is interested
in literary work to bring their
work te the GAZETTE.

Rebirth of an Army...

 

The Second Great War saw tremendous strides in the use of rocket

project.

es, and weapons of this type will be studied by the C. O.

T. C. during the summer training periods.

 

FULL SCALE

TRAINING

PROGRAM ESTABLISHED

With the closing date for applications on Jan. 15, the C.O.T.
C. program has finally begun to
function. Having met with a 2? to
1 response from the students, the
selection of the 24 provisional
second lieutenants which will
make up Dal’s quota will come
before the Selection Board with
the results being announced before Febrnary.

The men, selected on completion
of training, will be qualified as
Lieutenants (Reserve Force). The
training will consist of two
phases: (1) The theoretical phase
to be given in lectures at the
university, and (2) The practical
phase, taking place at a summer
camp, of a maximum of four
months per summer.

The primary difference in the
set up is, that whereas the old C.
0.T.C. gave only infantry training
of the foot-hlister type, the new
program will consist of more
scientific approaches and aims to
train a candidate for a special
corps of his own selection. Sum
mer training will be given at each
corps training centre, which are
located at Camp Borden, Camp
Shilo, Chilliwack, Barriefield and
Montreal.

This course will be an extremely thorough one, as it extends over
four years and the proportion of
practical training is high. For a
commission in the Reserve Force,
the candidate must have a degree.

While the program has met a
luke-warm response from the exservice students, approximately
one third of the candidates come
from this group. It has been
pointed ont that should a member of the R.C.N. or the R.C.A.F.
reserve wish to take part in the
Army program, releases are easily
obtained.

In all, the course provides an
excellent opportunity for anyone
contemplating an army career,
with a ninteresting variety of jobs
being offered. Another consideration which should prove a drawing card is the $135 per month,
with medical care, ew., offered

To Provide For New Men’s
Residence, Arts Building

A new Men’s Residence — a new Arts Building —
these are the goals of a financial campaign designed to
raise funds for Dalhousie University amounting to $3,000,000. Pre- -campaign work has been underway for
several months and it is expected that the drive will open
in May, to continue for five weeks or more.

 

Agenda For
Student Forum

A meeting of the Student Body
will be held in the Gymnasium at
12 neon on Tuesday, Jan. 28, 1947.

AGENDA

1. Amendments to the Constitution of the Student Body. Details for the proposed amendments
are posted on the notice boards.

(a) Limitation of Student of
offices

(b) Representation for Pharm
acy students on the Council of Students.

2. Consideration of the position of the second Engineering
representative on the Council of
Students.

3. Such other business as may
be presented from the floor.

STUDENTS’ COUNCIL

The Council of Students will
meet in the Murray Homestead at
7.30 p.m. on Wednesday, January
29, 1947.

1. Appointment of Munro Day

Committee.

2. Gazette semi-annual finan-cial report.

3. Consideration of
procedure and appointment
of election committee.

4. Further report of Awards
committee.

election

This week the GAZETTE interviewed Dr. H. L. Scammell,
secretary to the campaign com
mittee, on the progress of the

campaign to date.

“Actually, the purpose of +he
drive is two-fold" Dr. Scammell
explained, first to provide funds

for two new buildings, and second
to provide endowment for the upkeep of these new additions to
Dalhousie’s campus, and the general improvement of the university.

“The need for a Men's tesidence and a new Arts building has
long been recognized,” he said.
When asked what provisions would
be made for student recreation,
he explained that the residence
should include more than a mere
dormitory. Citing the University
of Minnesota as an example (at
U, M. a residence for 3,500 male
students contains everything from
a motion picture theatre to restaurants) he stated that Dalhousie’s residence would make
ample provision for the recreational needs of male students, at
least.

The campaign will be centered
in Halifax, and will radiate over
the Maritime Provinces, Newfoundland and eventually the
larger cities of Canada and the
U. S. First demands on funds
raised will be by the two new
buildings cited above.

 

D. P. University; Canadian
Conference in 1.S.S. News Letter

The weekly news letters and releases from the Internationa! Student Service this week report on

 

Behind The Scenes With The Man Whe Came Te Dinner

Curious as to the innermost
workings of a stage production,
your roving reporter meandered
into one of the frequent rehearsals of Dal’s current production,
“The Man Who Came To Dinner.”

Backstage is a world all its own
and at Dal undoubtedly belongs
to another solar system. Upon
arriving at the scene of rehearsal
] was confronted with a scene of
orderly confusion. In one corner
there stood a member of the cast
quietly mumbling to himself. Since
he was of a serious, sane demeanour I judged that he was
merely studying his lines. In the
centre of a compact group stood
Mr. Pigot, the director, explaining the fine ‘points of enunciation,

posture and delivery to a group
of would-be Broadway satellites.

Unkke the popular Hollywood
version of the shouting, excitable
director, Mr. Pigot neither shouts,
nor sheds his calmness. In his
quiet, unhurried manner he aids
his enthusiastic brood of amateur
performers over the obstacles they
so often encounter in a play as
difficult as the one they are now
attempting, His versatility is
amazing. During the short period
IT watched the rehearsal Mr. Pigot
acted out bits of each and every
part—with motions—for the benefit of the actors involved. And
then... Curtain!

Immediately the tenor of the

gathering changed. Against a
background of murmuring voices

Sheridan Whiteside’s voice rolled
forth in sarcastic condemnation
of his surroundings, both animate
and inanimate. As the rehearsal
slowly progressed from scene to
scene the lines of the performers
were punctured by cries of “Miss
Preen, you’re on... Banjo watch
your cue’! Slowly and painstakingly the scenes were re-hashed
and re-enacted, great care being
taken to eliminate those bits of
the original version which the
audience may consider too “adyanced” or “sophisticated”’.

From the rehearsal I gathered
that the play contanied the inevit
able vamp. I’d like to know her
From what I hear she is just the
kind of woman that I think I'd
like. She wears vampish clothes
and her dress is generally slit up
the side a good deal. This allows
her freedom of movement. In my
opinion she ought to have it.
Freedom of movement is a great
thing. However, back to more
mundane things.

The enthusiasm and eager desire of the cast to excel in their
individual roles, plus an immense
enjoyment of their task, was
evident that afternoon, to such an
extent that I heartily urge each
and every student to attend the
opening performance next Friday
evening. |

various phases of I.S.S. activity.
Hamburg-Germany: The Displaced Person’s University in this
city celebrated its first birthday
in December. It all began when:
a group of ambitious D. P. students and professors petitioned:
the authorities for some of the
buildings in the Museum of History. Books and writing materials
were supplied by I. S. S. and UNRRA provided food. The intellectual activity of the young university has been amazing, and registration has risen to 1200 students.
Community life has developed in
the two dormitory camps near the
city, where students have pooled
their skills and time to run the
camps. Food is still the major
problem to be faced—sometimes
alleviated by donations from students in other countries,
Canada: A_ two-day
Canadian Conference of Interrational Student Service will he held
here on February 22 and 23. This
(Continued on page 8)

Toronto,

 

 
/ Se = > a

 

CANADA'S OLDEST STUDENT PUBLICATION

 

Editor-in-Chief
AL LOMAS (3-4505)

News Features Sports
RED LAMPERT, P-1 JACK LUSHER DON HARRIS

Literary News Co-Ed Sports
ART MOREIRA LEW MILLER, P-3 FRAN DOANE

Photographer Proofreader Business Manager
DON MORRISON RALPH MacDONALD DON HARRIS

REPORTERS AND CONTRIBUTORS THIS WEEK
Windy O'Neill, Bob Grant, Fran Doane, Priscilla Raymond, Neil
MacLean, Dave Jamieson, Bob MacDougal, Ken Boite, Abe Leventhal,
Jim Saundere, Mary Lou Crowe, Liz Reeves, Jack MacCormack,
Creighton Baker, Gordon Hart.

Vol. 78 Friday, January 24, 1947

I. S. S. AT DALHOUSIE

International Student Service is established at Dalhousie. The
recent meeting of the Students’ Council appointed a neucleus committee
around which to base the organization on this campus. This committee
must now tackle the important tasks of making I. S. S. known to the
Student Body, arousing interest in the organization, and directing this
interest toward the aims of I. S. S.

To make the task easier, the I. S. S. is interested in Dalhonsie. But
will Dalhousians take an active interest in I. S. S.?7 They should.

During the war many Dalhousians became vaguely acquainted
with [. S. S. as a relief organization designed to aid university students
in war torn countries. This, while a magnificent gesture of growing
understanding based upon education, is not the basic factor behind
I: 8. 8.

The organization is now in the process of regaining its original
program, a program founded upon the need for understanding and cooperation among the nations of the world. As it is generally adjudged
that university students, by the very fact that they are attending a
university, are attempting to attain some degree of catholicity and
broad-minded thought, it is to them that any plan for international
understanding must be directed.

Years before the second world war, while Europe writhed in the
grasp of opposing political systems, students turned to their own ranks
in a futile, though well intended attempt to avoid the inevitable. International Students’ Service was launched. Now with the war slowly
relegating itself to the pages of history, I. S. S. reorganizes to prevent
a third world struggle distinruished from its predecessors as being the
last.

Students formed 1. S. S. Students must continue to further its

tause. It is, in the final analysis, an international co-operative student
movement. Only by such a movement can ther evist the functions of
an international student exchange or an international correspondence
scheme, Defined by an ideology, it exists as an intensely practical organization in a materialistic world.
’ At last students of this university will be called upen to take
part in a movement not bounded by the limits of the campus, A world
wide experiment in co-operation has been launched. Dalhousie Can
have a part in this. If interest and co-operation do exist at Dalhousie
this is the opportunity for them to be exercised.

THE GAZETTE

Daring the past week there has been some criticism of the
GAZETTE for the position it has adopted regarding some~ campus
activities. Apparently it is time to once again bring before the student
the policies and aims of their paper.

First, let it be clearly understood, that stories appearing under a
bye-line are not to.be taken as the opinion of the GAZETTE, They
are personal opinions, and as such, the names of the authors are signed.

The GAZETTE is the property of the students, If a representative
group are not sufficiently interested to play-an active part in its publication, it falls upon the shoulders of a smait group, and eventually this
group is greeted with loud calls-of “Clique, Clique” and ‘ita efforts’ are
appreciated by cries of “Closed shop”.

There are some on this campus who feel that the GAZETTE staff
it not capable of publishing an eight page paper. We, the editorial
‘staff, repudiate this charge. Not all the material which appears in theGAZETTE is padding, in fact; there may even be some isolated instances when stories and articles have had to ‘be cut down, impossible
ac it may seem.

The GAZETTE attempts to publish what it considers ‘contrilutory
to the common welfare of the Student body’. Despite adverse criticism,
it will continue to do so. There are many obvious mistakes in the manner in which thistis done. Criticism and suggestion on the means to the
end will be welcomed. But the end remains clear.

EDITOR’S MAILBOX

No. 12

 

 

 

 

Dear Mr. Editor:

The article which appeared in
the last issue of the GAZETTE
under the heading “Glee Club's

Evicoms” directly and indirectly:

strongly hurt the feelings of
many students, and it was, therefore, felt that a reply should be
in order.

 

ft is not my intention to discuss here the possible merits or
demerits of the evening’s presentation. Suffice it to~-say, that,
judging from comments received,
by far the greater part of both
students and public enjoyed the
concert; that this was in no small
measure due to the generosity of

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

the Ladies Musical Club who very
kindly allowed us, eratis, the use
of their piano, the first grand
piano obtained for the use of Dalhousie students in years, and also
due to the ingenious acoustic arrangements backstage; and, finally, that the response of the student body was a most gratifying
one and those who participated
are to be congratulated in every
respect,

All this, of course, does not
mean that there is no room for
improvement or for more memers, On the contrary, half the fun
in life would be missed if one did
not always try to do even better
than before. But anyone wishing
to pass judgment should always
bear in mind that those participating in Glee Club activities
are amateurs who strive to do
their best in order to entertain.
Fully realising that if they failed
to entertain they would soon lose
their audience, they voluntarily
work very long and tiresome rehearsal hours. Certainly they are
not professionals who strive for
perfection nad_can, therefore, not
be gauged by professional standards.

What I object to chiefly in the
article of last week, and other
articles of similar nature, is the
open criticism in the student
body’s publication, of those members of the student body who exert themselves on behalf of their
fellow students, and contribute
their modest share to upholding
the name of Dalhousie and all it
stands for. I object to such publications because I consider them
to be unethical and as being
directed against the interest and
welfare of the student body as a
whole.

If, in everyday life you want
to make friends with someone, do
you insult him first and then ask
for his friendship? If not, why
do those who want to foster this
extended friendship called “College Spirit” follow such practices?

A students’ publication such as
the GAZETTE, which strives to
encourage students to participate
in extra-curricular activities and
unites students in their common
interests which, furthermore, is
renerally considered to represent
the VOICE OF THE STUDENT
BODY and is supposed to recommend Dalhousie to the outside
world, must endeavor to bring
ont all the assets of student activities and their respective leaders.
Actually, I sincerely believe that,
generally speaking the GAZETTE
staff of this year is to be commended on their efforts along
these lines, with the possible exception, T may add, of one of the

columnists whose efforts, although

undoubtedly sincere. were certainly misdirected. As a point of
interest, however, I should hke
to mention that one of the slanted
articles against the Glee Club
published in the GAZ™TTE in the
winter. of, 1945-46 was reprinted
in, full on the front page, of the
Queen’s university students’ publication under the heading: “Activities on other campi.’’—Il am
‘not cuppesting here that all that
is being done by the students
should be called “excellent” or
“superb’’ but rather that anyone
writing for the GAZETT®= should

before he turns in his contribution, think it over twice whether
his article actually serves the
above interests of the GA” ETTE
and the student body, or whether
it could possibiy be misinterpreted
an ddo more harm than good. In
other words if anyone wants to
try his pen on impartial “literary”
crificism, he would do much better if he picked on Hollywood
productions, for instance; and if
anyone finds a need for improve:
ment in ANYONE of the campus
organizations he would be better

(Continued on page 8)

Friday, January 24, 1947

x ea >

 

“Boy oh boy .. am! ever ready for a Sweet Cap!”

SWEET CAPORAL CIGARETTES
“ The purest form in which tobacce can be smoked”

 

MARVEN’S BISCUITS

5“ -” hos
Me de Ae ta SS ane
a ae
= .

MATa)

 

FAVORITES SINCE 1906
Moncton, N. B. ,

Halifax St. John Quebec Montreal

 

   
 
 
  
  
   

iSay SCHWARTZ |

and be sure!
|

 

It was a good slogan in war. It is now a good slogan in peace:
“Say Schwartz and be Sure”. We urge it for your protection
that you may be assured of the incomparable Schwartz quality
in Coffee, Spices, Peanut Butter, Jelly Powder, Baking Pow
}
der and Dried Fruit. |
|

W.H. Schwartz & Sons Ltd.

Canada’s Oldest Coffee and Spice House
Founded in Halifax in 1841

   

Halhousie University

Halifax, Nova Scotia

 

Largest Staff, Libraries and Laboratories in the Maritimes
The Faculty of Arts and Science
enjoys international distinction ~

 

Degrees of:
Bachelor of Arts
Bachelor of Science
Bachelor. of Commerce
Bachelof of Musie
Master of Arts
Master of Science

Diplomas ‘in:
Engincering
Education
Music
’ Pharmacy : ‘roy
Hospital Pharmacy
Mining Geology

Pre-Professional Courses
Honour and Advanced Courses in many departments
in the B. Se. course about $210.00 a year
in the B. A. Course average about $160.00 a year
Many valuable scholarships, on entrance and through the courses
Regional Scholarships awarded on the result of examinations held im
February in any Maritime school. Special $600.00 scholarships for Honour courses in Classics, Mathematics, Modern Languages and History.

Inclusive Fces

The Professional Faculties
SO

-~—_—

Law. Medicine, Dentistry, enjoy an unexcelled reputation.

 

 

Residences
Women students live in Shirreff Hall — one of the finest Women’s
Residences in the “ominion., Residence is provided for first year men
in the University Men’s Residence. Other men students Hve in either
of two affiliated institutions or in selected and approved homes
Special accommodation is provided for married and single ex-service

studenta,

Meals for all students are available at the University.
For full information write to THE REGISTRAR.


 
————

fee

  
  

Friday, January 24, 1947

 

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Page Three

 

Seek Suspension
Of Lawyers Fees

By LEW MILLER

Many veterans are now, for economic and other reasons, taking
their legal education in one province with the desire of practising in
another. To transfer his practice to another province, a barrister must
pay exorbitant, and, in some cases, almost prohibitive transfer and
admision fees.

Last autumn Colin Smith, ex-West Novie Captain, Law Student at
Dalhousie, proceeded to take action which, if acted upon, would enable
a veteran to transfer to another province within four years of his graduation without being forced to pay the transfer fee. At a meeting of
the Student Veterans of Dalhousie Law School, Mr. Smith was empowered to act as chairman of a committe to investigate the provincial barriers set up by transfer fees.

TRANSFER FEES UNNECESSARY

In a circular letter written last fall to other Student Veterans’
Associatione in Canada, Mr. Smith stated; “We feel that transfer fees
could well be abolished in order that student veterans could gain ad
“mittamce to the Bar of any province on the payment of only the admission fee of the province.” He further urged the associations to prepare brief stating their contentions for the purpose of submitting them
te the National Conference of Student Veterans slated for the 1946
Christmas vacations in Montreal.

BARRISTERS' FEES

In the same letter, Mr. Smith listed the Transfer and Admission

Fees as follows:

Province Transfer Fee Admission Fee
B. C. $ 1500.00 $ 270.00
Alta. 500.00 410.00
Sask. 1000.00 155.00
Man. 1500.00 306.00
Ont. 1500.00 262.00
N. B. 200.00 130.00
mes Be 200.00 240.00
N,. S. 400.00 175.00
P.Q. (Quebec has no fees but its different system of laws virtually

restricts the province to those who study it.)
DALHOUSIE PLAN ACCEPTED

Previously prepared by our Dalhousian’s action _on the matter,
delegates to the National Conference—held, as was planned, during
the Christmas vacations—discussed the brief prepared by Mr. Smith
and submitted by the Dalhousie delegate; and acepted it in full for
further action by the National Council of the Student Veterans’ Association.

The brief points out that the fees are un-uniform throughout the
country; in some cases prohibitive to young ex-service Law graduates
who wish to practise in another province subsequent to graduation;
among the factors discouraging to the unity of our nation; and a bar
only to those with insufficient funds and not as a bar to those with poor
‘scholastic records (The brief states that the laws place a ‘premium on
wealth and a burden on ability” in many cases.)

. VETS SERVED ALL PROVINCES

Pointing out that the Medical Profession charges only $25.00, and

the Engineering Profession only $5.00 for such transfer, the report
further states; “The authors of this brief having been members of the
armed forces of Canada during the recent war, had, as their object, not
service to any particular province, but to all provinces alike and to the
Dominion as a whole, and, in consequence, ask to be treated alike by all
provinces.”
Other factors in the bricf—the sericus housing proviem which
forces a veteran to live where he can find accomodation for his family
with consideration of the insufficiencey of D. V. A. grants, for instance
—further the reasons for the elimination or suspension of the transfer
fees.

The report is summed up by the following statement:

“THEREFORE it is urged:

1. The present barrister fees as imposed by the several provincial barristers’ societies be suspended in the case of veteran graduates
im law for a four year period following graduation, or alternatively,

2. The transfer fees, in the case of such veterans, be made uni
 

CANADA'S

  
   

OLDEST STUDENT PUBLICATION

 

Kings Orators
Out-talk Dal

DOOR NOT TO BE
COMPLETELY OPENED
The first inter-collegiate debate of the season was held Jan.
16, when Dalhousie played host
to a debating team from King’s.
The winning King’s team of
Rhodes Cooper and Dene Burchill, upheld the negative of the
resolution “That Canada should

have an gpen-door policy of im
migration.” Dalhousie was represented by Phil Arlett and Whitney
Dalrymple. Chairman for the debate was Jim Saunders, of Dal.
Speakers for the affirmative
(Continned on page 8)

Aid The Man Who
Came To Dinner

EVERY STUDENT OF DALHOUSIE SHOULD PLAY A
PROMINENT PART IN THE

COMING GLEE CLUR PRO
DUCTION.

Next Friday the Dalhcuste Glee
and Dramatic Society presents,
for the entertainment of the student body, that uproarious comedy
The Man Who Came to Dinner,
at 8.30 p.m. But on Saturday, at
the same time, this same show will
be presented to the Public. It is on
these public performances’ that
the Glee Club relies to help defyay their very great expenses. If
every student on the campus
would take upon himself the responsibility of encouraging af
least two Haligonians to atten]
this performance, then the fact
that our means of publicity are
very limited would not cause the
anxiety that it has in the »ast.

 

N. S. Premier
Honors Dalhousie

Added incentive to debating has been given by the
Sodales announcement that Premier Angus L. Macdonald has established at Dalhousie an annual debating award
to be known as the “Macdonald Oratorical Award”.

The medal, to be awarded in
perpetuity, 1% inches in diameter, depicts Joseph Howe, one of
Nova Scotia’s greatest orators, on
a debating rostrum. In the background is the Province House
where Mr. Howe delivered the
greater portion of his speeches,
und in the lower left correr is
embossed the Dalhousie motto,
“Ora et Labora.” The circumference is inscribed with the name of
the award.

To Outstanding Debater

The medal will be awarded te
the outstanding debater of the
vear who must be a volunteer in
interfaculty debating and be
chosen to participate in intercollegiate competition.

The judges, President of Dalhousie university, Dean of Arts
& Science, and the Dean of the
Dalhousie Law School, will choose

a subject for the competition two

CIC Elects weeks prior to the date set for the

E. ti contest which will be at least a
ACCUTIVE

 

Premier Macdonald

 

fortnight before Munroe Day, at
which time the award will be

CHEMICAL INSTITUTE OF made.
CANADAGIN 1947 Each competitor will speak for
Jan. 8—The first meeting of ten minutes, and the decision

shall be made according to material, arrangement and presentamembers tion of material, delivery and personality. The competitors will be
judged independently and shall be
called upon in alphabetical order.

the Dalhousie branch of the Chemical Institute of Canada was held
this evening, at which
and visitors were shown films depicting C.LC. work in Canada,
and a new slate of officers was

(Continned on page 8) (Continued on page 8&8)

 

Dal Institute of Public Affairs

A university has been described as “a collec
Pioneers In Health Insurance

(JACK MacCORMACK)

carried out? Obviously this question was of prime
importance since it was closely tied to the probable

forb, and, it is suggested, nominal throughout the various provinces.
LEGAL PROFESSION CLEAR-HEADED?

In a letter accompanying the brief, Mr. Smith writes: “Veterans
moreso than any others know what the name CANADA means, and they,
more than all others, demand and need every bit of help in getting
rehabilitated. The possibility of reaching fair and more equitable rates
is now at its greatest. If we “beg question" this time, it is highly probble that these fantastically old-fashioned and discriminatory, and
totally un-Canadian barriers will continue to exist among a profession
that is ever prone to have itself recognized as being clear-headed, sens
ible, and Canadian.”

é

 

Sing And Sway The Sweater Way

Soft music by Warner and tle
boys, modulated lights and hundreds of sweaters all added up
to make the Millionaires Annual
Sweater Dance, held in the gym
last Friday night, one of the
greatest dance successes of the
college year,

The highlight pf the evening
came when Prof. Maxwell announced that Dorothy Forrest had
been chosen Dalhousie Sweater
Girl, 1947, Donald Morrison was
in charge of photography for this

of arrangements and directed the
decorating job, and to Irving
Millie who supervised the distribution of nourishment at lunch
time.

Chaperones were: Mr. and Mrs.
A. M. Butler and Prof. and Mrs.
Stanley Cummings.

SENIOR CLASS
MEETING
- Room 3—Arts building
AGENDA:
Financial. Report.
' Election Hon. President.

tion of books” and this description was once considered both accurate and adequate. Today, howevery, much more is demanded of such institutions.
The modern community expects the university to
provide dynamic leadership in every day life as
well as in the field of higher thought.

Well merited publicity has been given to the
St. F. X& Extension Department and to the “Antigonish Movement” sponsored by that university;
but little has been heard of any comparable undertaking. To conclude, however, that Dal is just
another ivory tower would do less than justice to
a smal but potent group.

On Studley Campus, between the Arts Building and the library, stands a grey, be-shuttered,
frame building quaintly betitled the Murray Homestead. On entering the front door an observant
person might notice a small tin sign on which is
priated the words: “Institute of Public Affairs."
The sign is indicative of the unobtrusive nature of
the Institute. They are little known; they do good
work,

The worth of the group’s achievements can
best be explained to the layman by an account of a
survey conducted by the organization in 1939, three
years after its founding. Seven years ago, long
before Health Insurance hit the headlines, Dr.
Richter and his fellow workers were pondering the
svoblermm. The first big question facing the opponents
of such a scheme, they reasoned was this: How
much would the demand for medica] attention increase if a scheme for Health Insurance should be

  

cost of such a plan.

Casting about for a good example of’ Health
Insurance in action they hit upon the mining tommunity of Glace Bay which had a well-matured
system of compulsory health insurance, perhaps the
best example of such a project in North America.

The Dal researchers then decided not only to
survey Glace Bay but also to conduct a parallel
survey in Yarmouth, a town which was considered
to be about average in medical facilities. ~~~

After hard work in both centres, the results
were ready. Briefly and significantly, the Institute
found that the Glace Bay demand for health services was fully 50% higher than the Yarmouth demand. More important still it was found that the
Glace Bay rate of attended illnesses per one
thousand persons closely approximated the U. S.
rate of illnesses of which only 78% is attended,

In 1945 the report of the Institute was requested by the U. S. Senate Sub-Committee on:
Health, headed by Claude Pepper. The report was
then published by the American equivalent of the
Kine’s Printer. i

The above is but an indication of the tasks
performed quietly and efficiently by the Dalhousie
Institute of Public Affairs,

The Institute publishes a quarterly called
‘Public Affairs” edited by Dr. Richter. It contains
factual, meaty articles by Canada’s best brains and
boasts the highest circulation of any Canadiam
wniversity quarterly,

(This is the first of a series of articles

of this nature.) ;

 
 

 

a EE —
; aii i 4
2

a
x

Gitte» 1,

    

  
  

On The
SIDELINES

BY DON HARRIS

a awe aS = Peg ees —_—_——_——, |

Intercollegiate hockey seems destined to go the way of all Maritime
hockey circles, with new scoring records in the offing, if early season
games are any indication. The powerful Xaverian squad easily rolled
through a reputedly strong St. Mary’s team and then followed up by
outlasting Tech in a wild scoring spree on the following day. In these
two games, a total of 39 goals were scored, the Xaverians accounting
for 27. They may call it hockey, but you could never believe it, judging
by the scores. Dal plays St, F. X, next Tuesday, and the ‘Gold & Black’
will try to hold down the high-scoring forwards of the favored Xaverians, by playing them at their own game. Tech worked this system successfully but couldn’t keep up the pace.

BASKETEERS BREAK EVEN OVER WEEK-END

The Varsity hoopsters were edged out by Mt. A. at Sackville on
Saturday in a hard-fought contest, which definitely classes the Mounties
as the team to beat, unless U.N.B, pulls a surprise, which could easily
happen. The game definitely proved the need of more high class competition for the Dal squad, since competition in Halifax is not good, in
either the senior or intermediate loops.

It is too bad that the powers that be don’t get together and splurge
to the extent of about $75.00 and bring in Mount Allison for a game
in Halifax, The Dal team could use the practice and many basketball
fans would like to see the highly-rated Garnet and Gold squad in action.

City competition is not good! Dal handily defeated the Navy
seniors Monday afternoon, and should be able to take on and beat any
other city outfits without too much difficulty, unless these teams have
shown considerable improvement recently. Uniess the Tigers have an
off day, they are capable of rolling in over 49 points a game, which is
more than most Halifax squads can do. This lack of competition is bad
for the Dal boys, since they will meet strong opposition from the other
intercollegiate teams, who have all played rigorous pre-season schedules.

While on the subject of basketball, surely the D.A.A.C. has enough
money, or can get it, to provide standard uniforms for the Varsity
representatives. At the present, no two men, as a rule, wear the same
kind of shorts, and even the jerseys vary. While there may be considerable expense in obtaining certain equipment, basketball nniforms were
never very dear before, and are still reasonably priced.
D.A.A.C.BUDGETS ®

Many students, including this writer, have wondered how
was spent on athletics this year, and how it compared with previous
years. If the various Varsity squads lack equipment, perhaps insu!ficient funds have been set aside for this purpose, or perhaps too much
is in the sinking fund.

During the past three years, the D.A.A.C. has budgeted for 5: % of
the student income, and has spent on basketball, 22% last year and
17% this year, of the D.A.A.C. budget.

Basketball has taken up about 5!2% of this year’s budget, about
€.8% of last year’s budget. At the same time, 15% of lasi year’s budcet went into bonds (the sinking fund) and players provided most of
their own equipment, while almost as much is expected to be saved
again this year, and this year some shoes were bought for the team.

In every sport at Dal, the figures are much the same, while interfaculty sports get the left-overs of the left-overs, which, usually, is
barely enough to keep everything respectable.

Unless the sinking fund of the Dal Student Council is already earmarked for a special purpose, which it is not, (except to aid in the lean
years, which is a poor excuse, since previons councils saved money, even
during the worst years of the depression) then I strongly recommend,
as has been suggested elsewhere in this issue, that money be spent for
equipment for athletics.

Engineers Win 2, Lose 1

ENG. vs. DENTS
_, ENGINEERS 43
DENTS 22

The Engineers kept pace with
Law in second place of the Interfac, Basketball League standing
on Monday when they defeated
the luckless Dents 43-22.

Engineers: Bauld 4; MacWillams 4; MacMillan, Rogers 7;
Smith 2; Howard; Morrow 27.

Dents: D'Atey 10; Cooke 2;
Zappler, White, MacMurdo 6;
Gaum, Banks, Peters.

LAW vs. ENG.
LAW 4 ENGINEERS 1

‘Law ¢ame through with their
first victory in the Interfac. Hockey League on Tuesday when

they downed the Engineers lead
much

 

ing 1-0 and only 10 minutes to
play, law suddenly ran wild and
drove 4 goals home in 3 minutes
to turn defeat to victory. Their
marksmen were Morrison, MacKay, and Bent with two goals.
Flynn scored the lone tally for
the Boilermakers.

ENG. vs COM
COMMERCE 41 ENGINEERS 51
The Engineers picked up their
second victory of the season when
they came from behind with a
wild scoring spree in the last half
to defeat Commerce 51-41.
Comerce: Rogers 22; James,
Mont 7; Lyall 2; Keefe 6; MacKinney, Comeau 3; Kerr 1.
Engineers: Morrow 16; Eldridge
10; MacMillan 4; D. Rogers 19;
Bauld 2; MacWillam, Smith.

 

—— A

YHE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

= DAL SPLITS EXHIBIT

SCOTT MORRISON

       

 

Scott led the “Gold & Black”
to victory over Navy seniors,
scoring 14 points with his accurate one-hand shots.

St. Andrews
Beat Dal B’s

ST. ANDREW’S 56; DAL B. 30

 

In a poor exhibition of basketball, a five-man "Dal team was
swamped by St. Andrew’s juveniles 66-30, in a contest at the
Gym last Wednesday. The Dal
players were members of the Dal
Intercollegiate B Squad, and
played the game several
regulars. The juveniles flashed
a smart brand of ball and seemed
to have their older opponents
buffaloed through a good part of
the game, and their shooting was
very accurate.

minus

Dal: Morrison 12, F. Rogers 6,
Palnick 2, Tanner 8, McKelvey 2.

 

MEDS - DENTS
MEDS 35 — DENTS 14

With Morton and Cox leading
the way, Meds rolled up their
third victory in the Interfac
Basketball League when they defeated the Dents 35-14.

The game war & ragged, onesided affair and the Dents showed

- lack of practice and team play.

Meds: Stevenson 5; McLennan
4; Deacon 2; Morton 12; Ashley
4; McWilliams, Foster 2; Epstein,
Williams, Cox 8.

Dents: Darcy 6; Gaum, MacMurdo, Dubinsky 2; Banks,
Steves, Pentz, Peters 4; Cook 2;
Mc Master.

Badminton

Tournament

In the girls’ singles tournment
in badminton, held at the Gym,
Tuesday night, the semi-finals
were reached, leaving one game
of the sem-finals and finals, to he
played next Tuesday nicht. Peery
Rundle will play Winnie Waddell
in the semi-finals, the winner to
play Nita Sideris in the finals.

M. Fry def. H. Tompkins, 11-5,
11-3; J. Bowers def. V. Mosley,
11-0, 11-0; J. Rogers def. B.
Griffith, 9-11, 11-8, 11-7: N. Sideris def. P. Philips, 11-2, 11-0; P.
MacKinnon def. C. Conrad, 15-11,
15-15; P. Rundle def. D. Spencer,
13-11, 11-7; W. Waddell def. H.
Shields, 8-11, 11-18, 11-8: W.
Waddell def. A. Castis, 11-6, 114; P. Rundle def. P. MacKinnon
11-7, 11-6; J. Bowers def. M. Fry,
11-2, 11-5; WN. Sederis def. J.
Rogers 11-2, 11-4; N. Sederis def.
J. Bowers 6-11, 11-5, 11-4.

\

‘istering 3 baskets, Giffen 2.

  

Friday, January 24, 1947

ION TILTS 
Mt. A. Edges Dal 48-43

Getting its first taste of intercollegiate competition in the current season, Dalhousie’s youthful
Tigers dropped a 48-45 decision
to a highly rated Mount Allison
quintet in an exhibition basketball tilt in Sackville last Saturday
night. The game was fast throughout and featured some pretty ball

“handling, especially on the part of

the winners. Although the New
Brunswick team never relinauished the lead they built up in
the early minutes of play, they
were outscored in the second half

and held to four points in the
final eight minutes, while the
Tigers, having recovered from

their early nervousness and commencing to turn in a steady brand
of ball, were busy whittling down
the margin from 14 to 5 points.

Mount Allison relied almost
exclusively on their five first
string men, Ketchum, Robinson,
Eastman, Cameron and Tucker.
The others saw action only for a
brief interval in the closing minutes of the game, and were hastily
hauled off when Dalhousie served
notice that the issue was still in
doubt. Despite the fact that they
had not experienced the feel of
the ball in their hands for a week

(due to mid-year exams) Mt. A.
exhibited lhttle sloppiness and
were particularly effective under
the basket. Cameron and Robin
son used to great advantage their
superior height and reach to snag
most of the rebounds, both off
their own backboard and their opponents. Ketchum, on the receiving end of several nicely executed
plays, collected fourteen points on
his set shot from the corner.

Unable to outrun the opposition
en the small floor and crowded
out too frequently under the
basket by men of bigger stature
Dalhousie concentrated on retaining possession of the ball while
their heavy artillery, Farquhar
and Dunlop, were manoeuvred into position for long set shots, potted with amazing consistency.
Rogers followed up on the rebounds, skillfully slipping in six
of them. Coach Ken Chisholm
changed his lines often to give
the four freshmeh on his squad
much valuable experience.

The Mount A. fans again evidenced their keen sense of good
sportsmanship, giving every Tiger
plater a big hand as he returned
to the bench.

Dalhousie: Kelly 2, Farquhar
11, Creighton 2, Morrison 4,
Rosenfeld, Rogers 12, Levine,
Dunlop 11, Pritchard, Giffin 1.

Mount A.: Ketchum 14, Robinson 13, Eastman 10, Tucker 3.
Cameron &, Marshall, Keefe,
Lounder, Anderson, Asford, Russell,

Dal Trims Navy Seniors

of Dalhousie hoopHalifax
Sackville early Monday, still had
a little to much class for the Navy

A tired crew

ster’s. returned to from

representatives in the Halifax
City Senior League last Monday
afternoon, when they defeated

the Navy quintet 42-31, in an eXhibition match. Both teams were
minus their high seoring centres,
Dal playing without Eddie Rogers,
and dressing only two guards fo:
the contest. Prichard being out
with a leg injury.

The shvoting of both squa ds
was poor, both averaging only
25% of the shots they took, with
Dal, however, getting more cha.vces at the basket, and therefcre,
more points.

Stad scored the first point on
a foul shot, and Dal came back
with two quick baskets, and
were never again headed in the
game. Led by Scott Morrison and
Carl Giffen, Dal had forged
ahead to a 4-point lead at half
time, 17-13, with Morrison regCoe
and Deakin led the Navy attack
in this half with 6 points each.

Dal Increases Lead
For the first ten minutes of play

in the second half, the contes
was fairly even, with Dal maintaining theiy 4-point lead, but
Stad became careless in guard
ing Giffen, who got away for 5}
field goals and a foul, while Morrison again found the range and
racked up 4 points, in this session.
Seppala led the Navy offensive in
this half with 8 points, the half
ending with Dal out in front by
1l-points, 42-31.

Morrison led the attack for
Dal, his unerring one-han¢ shots
soon accounting for most of his
14 points. Giffen followed closely
with 11 points while Farquhar
registered 6. Coe was high scorer
for the Navy with 12 points Deakin and Seppala scoring 8 each.

Totals for the game were: Dal
—19 field goals and 4 fouls in 13
attempts, for 42 points; Stad—
12 field goals and 7 fouls in 10
tries for 31 points.

Dal: Farquhar 6, Creighton,
Kelly 4, Morrison 14, Rosenfeld,
Levine 2, Giffen 11, Dunlop 5.

Stad: Deakin 8, Coe 12, Bonner, Russell, Seppalo 8, Colbert 1,
Roland 2.

Frosh Lose Two Games

COM.—FROSH

COMMERCE 33, FROSH 29

Frosch went down to their third
defeat of the year when they fost
out to Commerce 33-29.

Creichton and Rogers were the
chief point getters for Commorce
and Jim Mont played his usnal
steady game. For Frosh Wilson
and Himmelman were the big
runs,

Commerce: Rogers 12; Comeau
2; James 2; Creighton 13; Mont
2: Kerr, MacKinnon 4.

Frosh: Robertson, Tanner 4;
Wilson 8: Himmelman 10; Saunders 7.

 

LAW—FROSH
LAW 24 — FROSH 19

Law's power-packed basketball
squad continued their winning
streak in the Interfac League
when they defeated a team of
fighting freshmen 24-19.

Matthews and Hart were the
going concerns for Law with

Hart pulling the game out of the
fro in ~ | , :

play. Himmelman and Wilson
again led the Frosh attack.
Law: Hatfield, Matthews 9;

Smith 4; Bell 2; Hart 9.

Frosh: Wilson 6; Himmelman
8; Cruikshanks, Saunders 2; Robertson 1; Tanner 2.

 
 

7

24

 

CAMPUS
ROUNDUP

About the Dal Students’ Council, Let it be known that the inecumbent council is a very able
group of tight-fisted businessmen.
It seems that in past years, a
feeling has evolved that it is the
main duty of each council to outdo the preceding one in saving
the student's money. Our conncil
has deviated, slightly, from this
line, in that, to date, they have

spent all but $1,300 of this year's.

allotment; but because of overestimated budgets, etc., they could
well save this sum or more, It
seems to me that the parsimony
that has developed, has resulted
in a decline of the prestige of our
university.

This year the Council declined
to vote money fo rthe Gazette to
join C.U.P. (Canadian University
Press), an organization which is
of doubtful financial value but
which boasts 26 Canadian universities, They also chose not to send
a representative to the NFCUS—
16 naniversities attended (maybe
they figure we are made conspicuous by our absence). Last vear
the Council saved the astounding
sum of nearly two thousand dellars of OUR money. This all goes
into a stinking fund (it stinks with
monev—currently about $10,000)
for what, no one has yet thought
up an excuse.

I have a suggestion for the use
of this money. The athletic equipment here, at Dalhousie, is not
old or ancient—it’s antique. I
know of a-case where a player in
the interfaculty contracted blood
poisoning, being pierced by rusty
nails in borrowed Dal football
boots: Dalhousie sends its teams
to the playing fields looking like
bowery urchins and it is peculiar
to an athlete to play accordingly.
In the past, the opponents thought
they were knocking the stuffings
out of Dal teams—it was -eally
the old padding. My suggestion
is to give this antiquated nad worn
out equipment to a local orphanage—if they will accept it or to
the Smithstonian Institute, and
spend some of those collectors
items in the students’ treasury on
new equipment. Are you listening—?

Tt was exciting! Last Friday
the Commerce boys sponsored the
Battle of the Bulges. The Dal
co-eds came up with their best
fronts forward. Despite the fact
that there were some city sweater
sweets in the hot race, the Dal
girls ended out in front, best. The
blue ribbon was pinned on Dot
Forrest, who won the derby. There
were pre-contest complaints that
some of the entrants were cheating, but we trust that all the students did not resort to any unscrupulous means, Honesty may
be embarrassing but the old saying says it is the best policy. A
good time was had by all, and now
everyone knows where all the girls
stand. The beauty of the Dal coeds should make the students
chests swell with pride.

 

     
 
 
  
  
   

 
  
   
  
 

EVANGELINE
TEA ROOM
Commonly known as JOE’S

280 Quinpool Road
BALTES,» N.S.

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Dal Girls Trim Dal Grads

The Da! Co-eds scored another victory Wednesday night at the Dal
Gym, when they defeated the Basketeers (Dal Grads) 21-10, in the
second game of the city senior league.

The Dal team held the lead throughout, but they lacked good
teamwork. During the first period the forwards seemed unable to find

the basket, and at the end of the first quarter, the score was

favor of Dal.

The Basketeers showed strength
in their passing but their shooting was stopped, mainly by the
strong Dal guard-line. The spectacular long shots made by Anne
Saunderson gained eight of their
ten points.

The steady playing of Irene
Robinson placed her as top scorer
for Dal, with 10 points. Fran
Doane also stood out for the
‘Gold and Black’ with her excellent team play and helped set up
many o fthe Dal scores.

Dal 1—TIrene Robinson 10, Pat
Snuggs 4, Marg O'Neill 5, Fran
Doane 2, Elsie Cruikshanks, Syb
Pentz, Betty Petrie, Verna Leonard.

Basketeers—Virginia Phillips 2,
Norma Sherman, Anne Saunderson 8, Mary MacKeigan, Barbara
Schwartz, Vera Bates, Marg MacPherson, Joan Silver.

DAL vs GRADS

In the opening game of the
Senior City League, played Tuesday night in the Dal Gym, the
Dal Senior Girls defeated the H.
C, A. Grads 35-10.

The Dal Co-eds held the upper
hand throughout, although in the
first half the contest was very
close. The Dal team showed excellent shooting ability, but their
passing was a little sloppy.

The Grads seemed to co-ordinate and work better together.
Their poorer shooting and inability to get throngh the very steady
Dal guard line cost them the game.

Line up: Dal — Irene Robinson
10, Pat Snuggs 17, Marg O’Neill
8, Frances Doane, Betty Petrie,

Syb Pentz, Elsie Cruikshank,
Leslie Anne Hayes.
Grads: — Ruth Christman 4,

Jean Mattison 2, Ethel Gladwin 4,
Donna Spracklin, Ruth Frank,
Peggy Hancock, Laura Wheeler.

GIRLS SCHEDULE

GIRL'S BASKETBALL
SCHEDULE

A six-team league in Girl's
Basketball has started play in
Halifax, with two Dal teams in
action, and the schedule calls for
games until mid-February, when
the winners of the two sections
will meet in a best two out of
three series for the League
Championship. Dal 1, Dal Grads,
and the Academy Grads are in one
section with Dal 2, Kings and che
Y¥. W. C. A. in the other.

Jan, 27 — Kings vs. Dal 2 at
Dal—7.

Jan. 29—Dal Grads vs. Grads
at Dal — 7.

Jan. 30 — Y vs. Kings at Y
—T.

Feb. 4 — Dal 2 vs. ¥ at Dal—
7.

Feb. 5—Grads vs. Dal Grads at
Dal — 7.

Feb. 6—Grads vs. Dal 1 at Dal
—s,

Feb. 10 — Kings vs. Dal 2 at
Dal—7.

Feb 12 — Dal Grads ys. Dal 1
at Dal — 7.

    

STUDENTS MEET at
DIANA SWEETS
TEA ROOM
368 Spring Garden Road
Toasted Hot Dogs, Lunches
and Fountain Service

     
    

 

2-1 in

 

EDDIE ROGERS

Eddie was high scorer for Dal
when they were defeated by
Mt. A. He was very effective
on layup shots under the basket.

 

MEDS - A. & Sc.

MEDS 32 ARTS AND
SCIENCE 26

Meds came through with their
fourth straight victory in the Interfac. Basketball League when
they defeated the Arts and Science, 36-26.

Improving with every match,
the Meds played a smart passing
game and their points were well
divided. Pope and MacKenzie
shone for Arts and Science squad
on the attacks. The win placed
Meds at the top of the League.

Arts and Science: McCurdy 6;
MacLeod, Gillis, MacKenzie 17;
Pope 9; James, Knight 4.

Medicine: Morton 4; Foster 2;
Ashley 10; Williams 6; Moffat,
Stevenson 4; Deacon 2; MacLennan 4; Cox, Epstein.

INTER-FACULTY DEBATE

“Should fraternities be recogmized at Dalhousie?" This is the
subject of an inter-faculty debate
to be held on Tuesday evening,
January 28. The competing teams
are from. the Arts & Science
faculty.

Oxford Theatre

Mon.-Tues.-Wed.
“A Stolen Life’

    

“The Bowery” Wallace Beery,
Jackie Cooper, George Raft
“It Shouldn’t Happen to a Dog”
with Carole Landis and
ALLYN JOSYLN

 

With Bette Davie
Thars.-Fri.-Sat.

 

Page Five

 

ae
vse npae ister tn ww

TS
rors

INT ERFAC HOCKEY

MEDS—KINGS

tellar goal tending behind 1»
nice defence won Meds a 4--2
victory over an agressive Kings
College team Monday.

Play was rugged and interesting. Prominent on the attack for
the Meds were Thorpe and Moreside, each bagging ewo goals.

Morrison and McKillop carried
the mail for Kings.

Meds: Moffatt, Vair, Cox, Auld,
Thorpe, Moreside, Griffen, Deacon,
Allen, Miller, McKeough.

Kings: Troop, Frazee. Lownds,
Fraser, Tufts, Morrison, McKillop,
Yates, Fitzner, Whalley, Guy,
Piggott, Fraser, Eisenhaeur, Coles,
Markey.

P. H. — PHARMACY

In a much better game than
the score would indicate the Pine
Hill “Holy Terrors” shoved sixteen past “cousin
Merry” in the pharmacy nets
Pharmacy retaliated twice. Powerful on the Pine Hil) attack were
and Mumford,
goals. Johnson
outstanding

pucks Geut

Hamilton each
with four
Morris were
pharmacy.
Pharmacy: Merry, Reno, Johnson, Gene Merry, Emanen, Stallard, Henderson, Morris, Van Wart,

and
for

McQuarrie, Beeler, Mahoney,
Sheehy.
Pine Hill: Stew MacDonala,

Sharpe Seeley, Weir, Slaven, Bud
Smith, Hamilton, Mumford, Al
Smith, John Simms, Dalzen, Ron
MacAuley.

GAZETTE REGRETS

Due to circumstances beyond
our control, the Gazette was unable to report three interfacnity
hockey games, played earlier this
week, except to get the scores,
However, in the future, this
ommission will be remedied and
complete coverage will be provided for all interfaculty contests,
with the addition of three new reporters to the Sports Staff. Ahe
Gazette would appreciate if the
Managers of the following teams
would call in at the Office and
leave the lineups and scorers of

their teams in the following
games:

Commerce vs. Meds—won by
Meds 2-1.

Kings vs. Law—won by Kings

i-2,

Frosh vs. Dents—3-3.

ENG. vs. LAW
LAW 35 ENGINEERS 32

Law won their second straight
victory in the Interfac. Baskethall
League last Thursday when they
edged out a fightine crew of
Engineers 35-32.

Trites, Bell and Grant sparked
the Law victory while Eldridge
and Morrow were the pick of the
Engineers,

Law: Trites 12; Matthews 4;
Bell 11; Wilson, Grant 8:

Enginters: Rogers 6; Eldridge
12; MacMillan, Morrow 10; Bauld
2; MacWillam 2; Norman.

 

HOOP ICE TEAMS TO ST. F. X. SOON

This week-end, the Dal varsity
representatives in hockey and
basketball will journey to Antigonish to open their intercollegiate
schedules with St. F. X. as their
first opponents.

Coach Chisholm’s charges will
meet the Xaverian hoopsters Suturday night, in what should prove
a crucial test for both squads,
since they are expected to fight it
out for Nova Scotia honors. Making the trip will be guards: Dunlop, Pritchard, Giffen; forwards—Farquhar, Morrison, Levine,
Creighton, Rosenfeld, Kelly.

Dal's ice squad will meet the
highly-rated Xaverian machine on
Tuesday, and coach “Windy”
O’Neill hopes to give them a stiff
tussle. The makeup of the Dal
squad is Still uncertain, but will
probably be: Ron Timothy, goal;
Frazee, Wade, Campbell and

CASINO

THEATRE

 

AN ODEON

 

Starting Saturday
For One Week

“TVE ALWAYS
LOVED YOU"

(In Technicolor)
Starring Phillip Dorn

Coach O’Neill, defence. One attacking unit will be Bill Brown
and Bob Knickle, centered by D.
Churchill-Smith, with Reg Crossy
eentering another forward unit,
Angus Reade playing one wing
and either Murphy or Snow on the
other. The other forwards will be
chosen from Lee, Crowell, Smith,
Carson, LeBlanc, Steeves and
Malloy.

atta

CANADA'S FINEST
CIGARETTE

 

 
 

 

 

VHE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Ce Fee

Friday, January 24, 1947

 

meer ERA RY...

 

The warth has swallowed the darkness—
Swiftly flowing, it sinks inte the murky hollows
As if sucked down by some force beneath.
As daylight comes, I see anew the desolation
Of my country—the Hell in life of War —
1 fee] the happiness and comfori.
That, brought on by the false security
Of horror-blotting night,
Has kept me alive, allowed my imagination
To picture again the beauties of my country
As it_had been—
I fee] my happiness and comfort
Slipping away—elippimg, sliding,
Dragging. away; |
Sucked into the swirling vortex of the earth's bowels;
Until, with the return of all-concealing night
The earth again spews forth its darkness,
) Which, rising, flooding, deepening, overflowing,
Drowns me in forgetfulness and sleep—
T. B.

The Definite Article

 

‘
'
If through some misapprehension
You find difficult, retention
Of the German word convention,
. Pay atterition to declension;
; For a varied cireygmvention

May bring on an intervention,

And the Powers, cause suspension

Of your studying pretention.

Furthermore, no cendescension

Can attone for contravention

Of a proper planned ascension

To the land where apprehension

Is of most minute dimension.

‘ I just casually it mention

Out of very good intenion,

(That's not past your comprehension)

*Cause you may win ‘Special Mention’

If you really pay attention

To your article's declension.
‘OMHPOS

_

The Rosary

"Twas Spring,
And all the world was fresh and green,
A promise of warmth and life t ocome.
A Rosary she gave to me,
To her a little trinket, but
To mea token of al) the prayers
A lniman heart can hold, in Spring.

And now ‘tis Fall... .
The fields are ead in rusty brown
And ail the promisés are gone.
The Ros’yy still 1 have, and still the prayers,
But where is she—
Oh where is she?
Tyrresias.

 

Long sinve ‘is gone the age of chivalry,
When in a blaze of glory every knight

Would issue, brave crusader, proud to fight;
For king or lady, honor’s pawn to be.

The glory’s gone from war; necessity

Alone remains, O’erpow’ring armies’ might

Makes men machines, War's day is turned to night,
And battle’s glory turned to drudgery.

But there are stil) crusades for us to fight
As long as women starve and children freeze
And men can earn no bread. It is not right
For us to lie replete on beds of ease.

The greatest deeds by far are yet to do;
Earth's noblest victories depend on yon.
Pindar.

<—"

 

To The Inex perienced

If, sweet Friend, you are a lover,
, And with deceit your sins didst smother,—
With coin, dispersing wee bothersome brother,
_ ~ Or subtly soothing, dear, startled mother.—
' Then Friend, may I caution you only on this.
If you’re to continue your sweet state of bliss
Realize this: that before the next kiss
You must prudently plot, jest your plans go amiss.
For the ways of Woman are the ways of the wild;

‘! Her stark, subtle savagery soon har you riled,—
. "Till you realize your own ways most surely are mild,
1 And Dame Fortune, perversely, on you hasn’t smiled.

For in spite of, and ‘cause of, your insidious lyin’—
i Brother,—yon’ve tied yourself tighter than twine!
; BH. EB. A.

English Literature
and the

British War Effort

By ROY CAMPBELL
After the First World War it was four or five years before anything
of real value was written about it in prose. Prose has been the normal
vehicle of English thought and feeling for more than a century. But
+ Wartime there is always an increase in the output of poetry and also

in the public interest in poetry.

It may be that the excitement and

emotional tension foree one to seek the more concentrated and rhythmical form of expression. However that may be, it is certain that the
writers of verse in both World Wars had formulated their experiences
before the prose-writers had done so—with a few exceptions. Prosewriting requires more reflection and retrospection. It is still early to
say what English literature will have contributed retrospectively to the
allied war-effort for we seem to be only just at the beginning of a large
harvest of war-books written by ex-service men and prisoners of war.
The spirit which pervades these books has already functioned and made
ite contribution to victory in real life, on the battle-fields, in prisoncamps, in the underground movements in the enemy’s rear-guard; and
in the most distant polar seas: so although these books are belatedly
coming out in print and binding, we can count them as having contributed to the allied war-effort, since the very essence which informs
them was not only contemporaneous with but a main ingredient of allied

way-effort.

Such books are Richard Hilary’s
“The Last Enemy”, Martin Lindsay’s “So Few Got Through”,
Bernard Ferguson’s “Beyond The
Chindwin”, Guy Gibson’s “French

Coast Ahead’, Paul  Brickhill’s
and Conrad Norton’s “Escape to
Danger”, and one which actually
appeared during the war thouch
in the form of a novel—P. W.
Mallalieu’s “Very Ordinarv Seamen’. These are only a few of
a daily-increasing output of warbooks from the most diverse conditions and theatres of war ranging from the polar seas, ta tre
tropical jungle, or the stratosphere.

If we compare this rew Enrlish literature with the corresponding crop of books which resulted from the last war, we are
Swuck beyond all things hv the
differences in the psychological
atmosphere. Nearly all the hooks
from the first world war had one
thing in common: a sense of disilusion, frustration and disgust
with the whole thing. There is no
doubt that this mood helned to
create the extreme pacifism of
the period between the two wars.

In contrast with these cloomy
books of the first creat war, there
is hardlv a single book amongst
those resulting from the last great
war which is in any way morbid
or frustrated. This is partly because, this last time, people were
really convinced of the necessity
or inevitability of the war, and
had been .expecting it for some
time, whereas World War 1 took
everyone unawares, There was a
far greater variety of experience
in this last war, It was mainly a
mobile form of warfare and many
soldiers travelled thousands of
miles in pursuit of the enemy, and
had seen victory after victory.

But in the first war the soldiers
started and carried on in the same
filthy, lice-haunted trenches. So
even. at the end there was no
real feeling of victory. Thus it is
that.in the first war English
literature did not contribute any
thing very much to the morale of
war-effort except for a few romantic trumpet-flourishes at the
very beginning of the war from
poets such as Brooke and Grenfell, who fell early in the war.
The poets and writers who survived them, the Owens and Sassoons, fill us with a kind of compassionate despair, which extends
even to the enemy as a fellowsufferer.

Though the poets in the late
war do not seem to have produced
such a genius as Owen, they have
many advantages over the poets
of 1914-1918. They could not

suffer the same cruel disillusionment since they started off with
none of the romantic flourishes
of their predecessors. In fact
most of us expected this war to
be worse than it was, since we
had been nourished on the frustrated literature of 1914-1918.
There is no doubt that many cf
the young poets who were formed
by this war, would, in normal cenditions, have been prose-writers.
but that they took to writing
verse owing to the exigencies of
their service as soldiers. There
is a kind of amateurishness about
much of their work but it is compensated by a sincerity and a
sanity which are not to be found
elsewhere in English poetry since

 

Dine at

The

Green Lantern
The Sign of a Good
Meal.

the eighteenth century. Amongst
this new generation of poets who
were made by the war we may
mention Keyes, Allmand, Alun
Lewis, George Fraser, Alan Rock,
Paul Potts, Currey, Fuller, Manifold, Litvinof, and others of the
same type who contributed magcnificently te the morale of their
fellow-soldiers by contributing to
the various military magazines
which were edited both at home
and overseas during the war
Many of these young men have
been killed in action.

Sidney Keyes is perhaps the
greatest loss amongst those who
were killed since at the age of
twenty-one he was already producing work of mature experience
and technical excellence. Alun
Lewis was also a great loss. Allmand received the supreme deceration for valour posthumonsly,
and had written some very promising critical essays. Enough of
these poets survive however to
keep English poetry flourishing.
They belong to a generation
formed entirely by the war in
the. hard school of active service
as soldiers. Many of their poems
first saw daylight in those magazines which were edited by the
soldiers themselves but which we
shall mention elsewhere when we
come to speak of the contribution
of periodicals to the war effort.

Editor’s Note: This article is
issued by the British Council
Overseas Press Department.

 

DINE at
The Nova Scotian
Featured on SUNDAY

Delicious Luncheon, from 75c
noon to 2.30 p.m.
and DINNER, from $1.00,
6.00 p.m. to 8.30 p.m.

With MUSIC by Oscar Welti
Trio.

* « a

DANCING at
The Nova Scotian
every SATURDAY night

 

 
~*

 

 

wfmenok AU RES

 

 

GWE ME Four.
USED Hockey

 

Law Notes

Now that all the marks are
posted, the Law School is settling
back to a normal hectic existence,
and as usual, nothing in particular happens that is interesting
enough to write about.

While poking around the musty
interior of the north end of the
Forrest building, one might assume from the crowded appearance of the Law library that last
week's exam. results were a bit
on the low side. Such a person
might get a shock when he poked
his nosy nose into the Common
Room where loud eries of “seven
no trump’’ cut the smoke ridden
room, — obviously most of our
number are satisfied or adamant
over said exam. results.

Another prospective lawyer has
put his neck in the matrimonial
noose, Hughie MacPherson made
the fatal step last week, and now
he is cavorting around Boston
with the little woman with the
good graces of the Dean—and
the congratulations of all of us.

Law hockeyists had a bit of
tough luck in their first start, but
with practice and a few more
games, they promise to be strong
contenders for the interfac title.

We would like to extend our
deepest sympathy to Von Hartigan
in his recent bereavement.

CATHEDRAL
COMMENT

“Lord bless thy chosen in this
place

For here thou hast a chosen
race.”

On Saturday a wedding of inrterest to Cathedra! residents took
place at St. Mary’s Cathedral,
when Nursing Sister Jean Chisholm, R.C.N, of Antigonish was
married to Huch MacPherson of
St. Andrew’s, N. S. Leo MacIntyre acted as best man. The reeeption was held at the Nova
Scotian hotel. Among the quests
were Prof. Feeney and Dr. Hancock of the Law Faculty; Alex
Hart. D.K.S.V.A. president, and
Huch’s many other friends at
Cathedral barracks.

Our attention has been brought
to the group of tiny polio patients
in the clinic situated directly hehind Hnt 2. George Thorne has
surgested that the Cathedral's two
dollar-a-day men adopt the kids
(starting pay day). The idea has
met with unanimous approval, and
a committee will be formed.

From last Saturday's Halifax
Mail: “Angus Roach, Cathedral
barracks, reported to police that
he was in a local restaurant between 12.30 a.m. and 1.30 this
morning when someone walked off
with his chinchilla overcoat”.

(Ed, Note: On returning to
Cathedral, Mr. Roach found his

 

rsa ARE

The first society meeting of the
new year was held on the 16th.
A discussion was held on the advisability of changing the name
of the banquet from Boilermakers
to Sievemakers, the latter vessel
being just as efficient under the
new (dry) regime. The motto of
the banquet will be “Building
bridges, drinking fruit juice, anything else and they’re liable to
boot youse."” The banquet is free
this year, however, and as the
President mentioned, if eight
gentlemen pool their four bitses
and invest them wisely, almost
anything can hoppen.
Congratulations to Don Hebb
recent host to the stork. Mother
and daughter are doing fine, and
father is expected to recover.
The present shortage of paper
towels is liable to result in some
very smudy plates in the near
future if a few jokers in the
neighborhood don’t stop sing
three-yard lengths to dry their
fingers. It will take a lot of
stretching to make the present
supply last until more is. available, and if everyone doesn’t ease
up on the wastage there will le

wT: hey sitthle pinkics

 

SOG vary
around come March.

Cheers for the interfac basketball team, who smeared the strong
molar mechanics team last Satururday.

Dent Notes

For the
vears the Dental school has en
sports —W} ne

|

2:

first time im sever:

tered interfaculty
teams in both hockey and basketball, It is gratifying to note that
there has been nearly 100. percent
turnout for the games thus far,
either as participants or supporters, Keep up the good work hoys,
for although we have not yet been
winners, who knows—a little more
conditioning will do a lot.

More good news the Dent
school was on hand the past week
report Was received from

for

when a
(Continued on Page 8)
SS
coat resting in its usual spot. Per
haps it walked off by itself!)

 

COCA-COLA LTD.

 

Hahifax

 

“Coca-Cola” and its abbreviation “Coke”
are the cegistered trade marks which
inguish the product of Coca-Cola Lid.

ree

Acie 744 SS

  

Peasant Games
Winner At Dal

C'est impossible! (Balzac)

 

We were sitting in the gym store. Things were quiet—very quiet,
We weren’t feeling our best, a direct result of a blast from the editor
about neglecting the small people on the campus. Glumly we watched
a fly drowning in our coffee.

We paid little attention as a beautiful blonde entered the store,
other than the usual social amenities, such as licking her shoe. She
seemed overwhelmed by our charming manner and proceeded to relate
to us the story of her life. Amazing!

“Perhaps you haven’t noticed my muscular legs”, she said, brushing my hand aside and hitching up her skirt. Mopping our brow we
replied that, as a matter of fact, we had. Pulling her skirt primly down
(much to our chagrin) she informed us that the muscles had been developed by years of mountain climbing.

“You see,” she said, “I am Swiss—a yodeler, in fact.”

Aha! Here was a story! “A yodeler,” we asked, “you mean you sing
those cowboy songs?”’

She replied that we were in error on the fine point of the yodeler’s
art. It seems that the real yodeler’s don't sing songs at all. In Switzerland, especially in the Alpine regions, the peasants call their mountain
goats by yodelling. A good yodeler'’s greatest ambition is to win the
annual Peasants’ Games which are held at Geneva each autumn.

“You may be interested to know," she said, “that I am Olga Tell,
winner of the yodelling trophy in the Peasants’ Games of 1937. I was
quite young at the time.’’ (You must have been we thought.)

Being ever on the alert for news we asked Miss Tell for a demonstration of her prize-winning yodel. She was hesitant but at last agreed
that [ could visit her apartment that night and listen to her yodelling
practice. Seems she’s rehearsing for the big opera to be put on by the
dramatic society in a few weeks’ time. We couldn’t help but wonder
if the director had heard of this unorthodox behaviour, but we let it go.

Sharp on time we arrived at her apartment and got down to business. This was to be our big story and we had to get it from all angles
Loosening our tie, we asked for a few samples. “You mean of my
yodelling?” she asked, blushing. “Of course," we said, slyly.

It was obvious that Miss Tell didn’t want to let fly with a yodel
right there in her apartment, overlooking Granville street and neighbours on every side. She explained, however, that a yodel, Swiss style
is like yelling “Oh-Dear-Old-Lady” with

end of it, that you held the tone, and wiggled your tongue up and down

a big long “oooooy” om the

thronchoan?
Lit 9OULRRAOUT.

“Like this?” we asked, and did it in detail, complete with tonguewrong. TI

wageling. She indicated that we were al! nen withont further
urging she threw out her chest (very nice, too) and did it. For a
moment we sat transfixed as if we had just heard the trump of doom

inen our mind began to visualize great droves of mountain goats stampeding up Barrington from God knows where. It was a yodel from way
back,

“Tell me something,” we said, changing the subject, “Do the

young men in Europe have a tendency
than the young men over here?”

“Well,” she said thoughtfully. “Yes, I believe they do. It is more
a matter of course with them over there. They make passes just because
it’s a matter of course.”

“But see here,”’ we said, “that’s not a nice thing to say for the
newspaper.”

“Maybe not,” agreed Olga, “but you don’t think for a moment,”
(here she inched along the divan toward us) “that I am going to sit
here and yodel all afternoon for the newspaper, do you?”

to make more passes at a gir!

 

Diary Of Sanmel, Peeps

dan. 20: I

rose early and went to barber's where his new
« - . f+ 4 “19 -* : e+ ¢ . ;
assistant jetty me almost bald. Afterwards, over 3 pot of ale we did
discuss various, and sundry things and he did brine to my attention
the fact that Shane, the acientist, bas of late developed a most offen
sive habit of carrying worms rbout in his coat
on to tell me

pleased with

pocket. Then he went

of the discourse of
the King’
Atwood person, it would

; - ’ i vt s
Atwood the rvrocer who is much dis
egulation concerning prices of meals—this
After a
thietes Levine, Morrison, Giffen et
home and to bed where my wife anu i had some high words nupen
ative Smith

more,

seém, is always looking for profit:
rs : : .

uli day spent in the company
el, I

.

my telling her that | woul? fline the dog

thank Y
Whici

that t

had given her out of: .e w.idu ft ne dirtied the house z..¥

Jan. 22; Up late, being awakened by the arrival of Monsieur
ppler who was in a greut state of excitement about the harsh crit-.
tcism of a concert which had apps

d in the weekly journal. Further

he informea me of the fact that Milord Wadlyn had been se: speaking in an amorcus fashion to Linda, the gypsy-eyed girl who is the
employee of a tooth-puller. Mu annoyed by his folly I arose and
went to scold unwise Wadiyr, only on my way I met Robert Taylor, looking very i) beecnuae of :
brother Laird Taylor, .ne apothe:

wher:

we ail

ilrence in the dispensing of his
$s assistant. He did take me into
© did drink with the ever-inebriated Sir John
Pawley, © lst discoursed on the mystery of Milord Crowell
who late has been extremely secretive abuut his affairs of the
Then home where I sat late, reading.

Lith

Jan. 24: To the soldiers barracks nearby the Cathedral where I
did hear much of a mock wedding during the week in which the lately
departed Captain Dunphy and Milady Prouse were married in all gdod
humour. Remained here drinking with friends Oakley and MacDougall, then home.

 
. A hea 7
as eye ’ as
5% ee =

. Ce

re 5 re z cil Fi » | R < t
 onimet tom race > A OUNICI inancia epor
ee haeeeten val Oe SUMMARY OF RECEIPTS AND EXPENDITURES — 1945-46
an right to delete or make any additions to any of the data governing > “Macdonald Oratorical Gross Expenditures Gross Receipts Net Cost Net Income
ward.” ’ : Totals Totals
Dal Indebted to Premier
Macdonald *Counci $3354.71
The president of Sodales, Jin 1», 4 4 G
NEG Ee Saunders, has stated, “Sodales is «*Gene al
-populated; indeed indebted to Premier Mac- ao a oe
mu ch latget population within the donald for giving his support, and $170.65
mext ten years. They contended the society, in extending its ap- 101.30
e only Way in which this preciation to him, expects that met
| each successive winner will fulfill 177.65
the honor that exists in being ; ——
selected as the recipient of the ; : 186.14
medal.” . ; —
He further adds, “It is a bright I 48.70
spot such as this which shows the : $4601.22 —
student body and the public that —
debating at Dalhousie is a pro- $3913.78
ir gressive activity. Its position is er
ee being strengthened, and it would yp g. ; 580.18
D. P. UNIVERSITY | be well to remember that ‘new ee
ae ae beginnings are the life of per- ¢
«Cont ee ee seq Peverance’.” ste
tas been occasioned by th 3 ;
‘ ee nd LSS. activities beyond : ) 112.04
‘pelief work on Canadian campi- EDITOR'S MAILBOX , 380.46
cae Scand strength of the Can- (Continued from Page 2) Jan. /July class i 631.89
Gaia Wesnisa is must be cor- advised to contribute to the pro- Ontstanding accounts : ; 16.69
ae coride'a national front. ©" of that group by becoming — ... Accounts prepaid D.A.A.C., 1946-47 .. 23 41.93
sate ee Rios aeleeates Steers ORS: of its Most Active Members. i ———— ——_—
pected to be met by private sub ee kee cores gisago.oz $7986.20 $9028.88
a ne camapit ahora phase of extra-curricular activi- Balance for 1945-1946 1942.68 :
i wena} relations clubs do ties we may engage, keep an eye —-- : ae $9928.88
Pe natio Aacting on 1 ourselves, in the first place, $16380.02 $16380.02 $9928.
oe exist re ae oad side and, secondly, on others in order
peo OP epe aay I avoid the recurrence of similar *_In addition to expenses shown covering expenses for current
f SS. Buch groups are trespasses on human decency. year, the Council of Students invested $2000.00 from surplus account

wee? 20:tHl pe need #at = Thanks to the Ladies Musical in Victory bonds.
ernational clubs, and have re- Club a saikaaia 4 ;
[ee iP the Carnegie ub, and congratulations an :
Served we ; ve te that aid Veet Wishes to EVERYONE of the +*__A portion of the actual ping pong expenditures were absorbed
- _ Endowment a ~ 150 odd active members of the D. by the D.A.A.C. general account.
| : wil be extended to LSS. organ- , !
ae: - to form G. D. S.tKeep it up folks! You ’ -_,
t izations undertaking are doing fine! The above is a pure summary of totals for the various activities.

<

a ere . Information SS iia —. HARRY S. ZAPPLER. Space does not permit publication of the complete detailed statement.

(ce tek. 080 - bev OF tien _ B.S.—I can’t conclude this let
Miss Litian & Ed ek “are ter without thanking the Editor

Intercourse & Education 405 o¢ the GAZETTE and his c- SUMMARY OF ESTIMATED RECEIPTS AND EXPENDITURES — 1946| a ' workers for the constructive crit- 1947 — AS OF JANU ARY 18, 1947

icism they passed on the original :
of this letter and for making it Estimated Estimated

possible to have this unorthodox- 4 . Grose Expenditures Gross Receipts Net Cost Net Income
jeally long letter to the Editor me Totals Totals

printed. at Council $2950.84 $16201.37 $13250.54

D.A.A.C.

DENT NOTES A
n fo (Continued from Page 7) Basketball

; zrest NS ok ‘was late in ar- the New York Dental Board, who *Badminton
giving here, it is being offered inspected both Med and Dent Deat a 10% reduction from the partments here during the fall
pent) erice : * . re yan term. The Board has given its Swimming
a: pe ‘ROY one wa fullest approval of the Dalhousie
| I oT. Dental School, stating that it is

S & PREMIER a
aoe “aN / Ik 5

$1328.59 $9928.88

| a! at
ae yw SC | t to standard but in Ping pong :
a DAL GYM STORE i ciab pedal baie 6760.48 $5751.48

some respects surpasses American
schools,

. Delta Gamma . 97.50
*"D. G. A. C. 1658.05

eee
LIN FINE WATCHES | ...4. ........... en , 2315.00

Gl ‘ ° 404.68
IT’S CHALLENGER | Giee Club . “165.75

Birks take particular pride in Year Book ‘ ; 662.12
presenting to Canadains the Outstanding accounts ; ¢ 77.03
Challenger Wi

a —_—_—_—_—_——_——_———_—— —_—_—_—_____-oo —_-_-- ..

,

. 1 Fader's Drug Stores

It’s accurate RR cers sess iewactans Vacate cucabcnt~suaeseoccoureeees $19136.06 $20608.07 $11954.58 $13327.64
a ae

’s long-lasting E i
Ta saat y stimated balance as of Jan. 8, 1947 1373.01 1373.01

Canada’s Beet Buy in $20508.07 $20508.07  $13827.54  $13327.64
Watches ean ae er

Henry Birks & Sons 5 *_These three expense figures include a total of $447.20 earEsentted marked for trips pending but not yet finalized.
; **_1D.G.A.C, expense figure includes $200.00 for trip pending
Registered Jeweller, but not finalized.
American Gem Society x—Receipts estimated for Gazette and Glee Club are those estiHalifax, N. S. mates approved by Council in granting budgets.

All estimated expense figures are based on budget grants to

January 18, 1947.
Income, except Gazette and Glee Club, is based on figures available to January 18. No estimate can be given for student events that

S$. ~~ ae rf aed, a) S have not yet taken place.
| me Cunard and Company, Limited No consideration can be given to possible over-budgeting or underi ; H. ‘ 4

Mas
Pp ae) eee LUN ee tyra budgeting as student activities are farf rom completed.
}COAL * SOFT COAL

; aia. i : ,
- . ; By a
are r ae co KE ae FUEL OIL 7 NEWMAN CLUB Road. Members may obtain tickets will be known for whom to prex
eine ei OIL BURNING EQUIPMENT ; On Sunday, February 2, at 9.30 from their faculty representatives pare. A full attendance is expect~
Fer "i ae on : a.m. the Newman Club will hold upon surrendering fifty cents. It ed and members are imvited tq
HA FAX, N. S. DARTMOUTH, N. S. a communion breakfast at Sacred is urged that tickets be obtained bring a friend. A guest speakep
entities ; ' Heart Convent, Spring Garden in advance so that “how many” will be in attendance,

TS 7
—

<a.
i. « * i
ay

 
