    

  

 

 

 

 

4

 

  

 

 

  

 

 

 
   

th ;

aa i

   

 

  
  
  

7
.
ry

“a

 

v

  
  

ale
a

fai tlirws aay confe
ocewecrs
start with the forc

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

  

 

 

 

 

  

  

 

 

 

  

    

 

a

‘¥

*)

. a

 

the university vet;

 

a 70,000 studen
| ‘ane and vocational

| Ee Sever ridge,
_ Intyre was elected to the
a cz Alec Hart.

 

 

 

  

 

 

VETS CONFER
1 MONTREAL

rence of Student Vets held at McChristmas and New Year's got off to a
ed resignation of the National

OLDEST STUDENT

FRIDAY, JANUARY 10, 1947

 

 

Conf rence president, Leonard Starkey (McGill) con
sd with much intense
es sth of

ee erent session was aded by H. W. Jamieson, superite dent of university training
.V.A.; Major Gen. C. B.
. Dominion President of the

‘Canadian Legion; and Prof. A. H.

5. Gillson as official weleomer for
cGill university officials.

= Lack Of Confidence

_ After the second plenary ses“son in which Len Starkey was
forced to resign due to a vote of

lack of confidence, the conference

rolled up its sleeves and settled
down to reviewing the briefs submitted by. the various universities
and colleges. These briefs along

with other proposals were fun
ia

.
Nee
*


ti

rare
&
« Te
f% om
a Jf

vr

é _nelled through the three working

‘panels: finance, employment and
_ housing.
Finance Foremost
As was expected the most contentious questions were centered
‘fm the finanee panel. Several
plans were suggested sa a means

of increasing the maintenance grants, some of which were: the
_ granting of a general overall in_ grease both to sjngle and married yeterans; a sliding scale in
crease based on a means test; and
an increase based on a regional
cost of,living jndex. Other meth
ods of financial relief that were

suggested concerned: book allowance, commutation allowance and

loans, Out. of these discussions

resolutions were drafted with the
onference keeping in mind two
basic points which were considered essential: (1) the need in relation t6 the successfyl completion
of the veteran’s' training and (2)
the possibility of | their acceptance
by the government,

Both the housing and employment panels were greatly assisted
by well prepared briefs submitted
by several universities, prominent
pies them being McGill and U.

It may be well to express here
the gene feeling of the conference that (i) only through a unity
of action may the veteran hope to
obtain a thorough hearing of his
problems by the government and
(ii) that the solution of these
problems should be not only for
the better len of his own situation but for Canada as a whole,

_ comple te report. of the con
Henke. will be given at the next
Vets meeting, Read the notive
boar He and the GAZETTE | for

in sate pluce.

discussion of problems facing
and ended on a note of unity and
purpose which bears well for the future.

The 72 delegates of the NCSV represented most of
t veterans attending universities, coltraining schools across Canada.
y alhousie was represented by three delegates, Helen
Bob Mitchell and Leo McIntyre.
new National Council in place

Leo, Mc
 

INTERFAC
HOCKEY
ORGANIZED

On Wednesday afternoon at 2

p.m. the first meeting of the Dalhousie inter-Faculty Hockey
League was held in the gymnasium. Dave Doig, prexy of the
D.A.A.C. presided.
% President Doig informed the
meeting that all games this year
would be played at the Arena on
Friday afternoons from 12.30 to
230. “The equipment problem
will be eased this year’’, said Doig
“in that shin-pads will be provided by the D.A.A.C.

The schedule is arranged
that each team will play all other
teams at least twice. It was felt
that this arrangement will provide
each team with a sufficient number of games.

The general concensus of opinion is that the Freshman class, 700
strong, will ice the most formidable contender for the title, which
at present is held by Law.

The representatives of the various faculties at Wednesday's
meeting were Bob Blois, Law; Lee
Currie, Commerce; Zen Graves,
Engineers and Jack MacCormack,
Arts and Science.

Approximately eight teams will
‘vie for championship honors,
newcomers this year being Dents
and Kings.

WATCH
THIS
SPACE
SOMEONE
MAY
CONTRIBUTE
NEXT
WEEK

he

sO

 

 

a

_ destined to depart

PUBLICATION

No. 10

WANTED

Do YOU feel frustrated? Do
you “want a chance to unolad
your suppressed journalistic tendencies? Do you think you could
make a second Hemingway? A
Runyon? Do you want a place to
go on rainy afternoons? Hot coffee at 3.30? Pleasant companionship? Do you want to know everything that happens, even before
it happens?

pO YOU WANT TO WORK
ON THE GAZETTE? THE

GAZETTE WANTS YOU!

Interested, enthusiasite young
men and women wishing to get
ahead in the world are needed in
the ranks of GAZETTEER
Openings ‘are available in all departments. Reporters, sports W riters, rewriters, typists are NEEDED NOW! DESPERATELY!

If you can write, type or sweep
a floor—the GAZETTE needs you.
Do you want a new GAZETTE
clique? No! Of course not! Then
come and work on the darn thing
yourself!

"47 RHODES
SCHOLAR

According to the Dalhousie
calendar, students entering the
Arts faculty with Grade XII certificates “are advised that they
cannot expect to complete the
combined courses in Arts and Law
in less than six years.” One Allan
Emrys Blakeney of Bridgewater,

 

 

}

ALLAN E. BLAKENEY

N. S., Nova Scotia's successful
candidate this year for a Rhodes
scholarship to Oxford University
appears never to have been aware
of this “advice”, or at least, not
to have taken it to heart. For. Al,
graduating from Bridgewater
High in the spring of "42 at the
modest age of 16, proceeded immediately to Dalhousie, and now,
five academic years later, in
the enviable position of being
in May with
the coveted sheepskins from both
the aforesaid faculties,—no mean
feat, at that.

Nor has his sofourn at this
yenerable institution of learning
heen one remarykab! for the
number of hours devoted to the

Indeed, the contrary is
Al -is well known Qn the
(Continued on’ page 5)

is

hoeaks,

trué.

+4, “
are

-NATIO

Socialists Meet
At Toronto U.

 

  

The first national convention of Canadian university
students to found a democratic socialistic organization
interested in “developing political thought and progressive social action” was held at Toronto University
during the Christmas vacations.

Although the federation is to be an autonomous
body with no direct affiliation to any political party, the
delegates from all parts of Canada unanimously voted to
retain the name they had been tentatively using, the Co
operative Commonwealth University Federation,

and

went on record to state that their belief is that the C.C.F.
is the only vehicle for the advancement of true democracy

in Canada.

PHAROS FORMS
NEW COMMITTEE

 

The formation of a new Editorial Board for the Year Book
organization has been announced

by Pharos Editor Bill Pope, The
Editorial Board consists of seven
members, who have been chosen
because of their familiarity with
campus events and organizations
and because of their past Pharos
experience. The purpose of the
Editorial Board is to select appropriate, interesting, representative
and high quality material, and
to suggest to the Pharos Editors
that such material be included in
the 1947 Year Book.

Members of the Pharos Editorial Board include Larry Sutherland, former Year Book Editor
and last year’s Council President,
Al Lomas, present editor of the
GAZETTE, Jim Bel, assistant
editor of Pharos, “Liz Reeves, 4th
year Arts student and former
vice-president of the Glee Club,
Kaye MacLean, president of Delta
Gamma, Bob Hatcher, graduate
student in science, and Bill Pope,

editor of Pharos,

The Editorial Board will concern themselves with such matters as whether color should be
included. in the Year Book, and,
if so, on what pages it should be
used: whether the graduate section should be placed near the
front of the book or whether it

should be included as the last section of the book; whether or not
the format of the graduate, pages
should be revamped and that the
(Continued on Page 8)

Deploring the action of some
universities in Canada which permit no political clubs to function
on their campuses, the federation,
in a statement of aims, declaréd
“We believe that it is both inevitable and desirable that students
should form themselves into political groups corresponding to the
existing parties in the community.
Such political groups assist students to understand the world
around them and to translate their
study of social philosophies into

a concrete contribution to s0ciety.”
Queen's “Ostrich-Like”

The action of Queen’s University in banning all political clubs
after an active campaign by the
university. paper supporting a
plebiscite based on a referendum,
reported by a Queen’s delegate to
be “heavily slanted’’ was considered to be anti-democratic and
“ostrich-like’’ in that subversive

clubs, which normally function
underg®bdund, would be able to
continue their programs without

opposition from the Liberal, Progressive Conservative and the C.
Cc. F. parties. The delegate from
the Queen's club which has been
meeting openly off the campus
expressed the belief that this action was directed against the C.C.
F, whose philosophies are based
on “progressive thought rather
than against the ‘old-line’ partics
whose very existence depends on
negative or ‘laissez-faire’ thinking.”’

It was unanimously decided by
the delegates, because of the insyfficiency of funds, distances involved in travelling, the lack ef
time of student members, and the

(Continued on Page 8)

 

Mental Mentors

Meet .,

On. Tuesday, January 7, 1947, the curtain went up for the first

time in the New Year on Dalhousie Citizens’ Forum.

The Forum closed

the week before Christmas examinations and now we welcome back
all the familiar faces, who come to exhibit their skills of oratory, in

witticism and profound thought.

The evening got off to a good start with a

very instructive and

thought-provoking film on the desperate fdod situation in Europe.
Following the film, the group listened with intent, as the experts debated the topic of the evening, “Is Germany Still a Menace?” What can

be done?”

which was broadcast from London, England.

At 10 p.m. the forum itself got down to business on the questions

immediately before it.

The first question was whether to carry out.

the terms of the Potsdam Agreement in full and strip Germany of her
industry, allowing her only the average subsistence level of Europe, or
to allow her to rebuild and pay reparations out of current production,

Jt was decided that neither plan was entirely acceptable,
the principles underlying the British-U. 'S. talks,
Germany an economic self-supporting unit,

but that
that of making
should be promoted. The

forum felt that the second question was poorly worded, referring to
Canada’s withdrawal of occupation forces and her failure to assume

direct responsibility to aid Britain in feeding the British zone,

It was

pointed out that Canada alone had achieved her full quota of food

shipped td devastated Europe.

The numbers were very low at this meeting, and although this may
be excused on the grounds of the first night, nevertheless there surely

must be more than twenty-five

students out of seventeen
interested in important current questions,
tendants will assure you that it is an evening well

hundred,
Any one of the regular atspent, with good

appetite and thought—and good fellowshiy.

Subject for discus
 

mowies—excellent food fo!
So let’srsee you next TUBSDAY, January 14
sion: “SHOULD CONTROLS BE CONTINUED IN CANADA?”

 

 
 
   

  

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

   
 
 

Air

F a |

  

     
  
    
   
  

 

|

 

 

} /

 

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
   

~

is.

c :
a a
|
eo
-_

 ye-building laboratories

CANADA'S OLDEST STUDENT PUBLICATION

 

Editor-in-Chief
AL LOMAS (3-4505)

‘News . Features Sports
RED LAMPERT, P-1 JACK LUSHER DON HARRIS
Co-ed Sports News Co-ed Ed.
FRAN DOANE LEW MILLER, P-3 JEAN BOWERS
Literary Proofreader Circulation
ART MOREIRA RALPH MacDONALD MARY FARQUHAR
| Rewriter Office Mer. Photographer
VIVIAN LUSHER BILL OGILVIE DON MORRISON
Business Manager . Cartoonist
DON HARRIS BOB TUCK

REPORTERS AND CONTRIBUTORS THIS WEEK

Bill Lovatt, Windy O'Neill,. Jean Bowers,
Creighton, Bob Mitchell, Ken Boite,

Bob MacDougali, Bernie

Jack Mactlormack, Bill Pope,

Bill Mingo, Mary Lou Christie, Gordon Hart, Len Mitchell,

 

Vol. 78

Friday, January 10, 1947

No. 160

 

A BEDTIME

STORY...

Once upon a time there lived—down by the sea—a whole family

known as the Dalhousians.

Now these Dalhousians were a most in
dustrious little group, and they lived from day to day, quite happy in

their insular (or peninsular) security,

But one day a strange tale

drifted in on the West wind. There were people living in the west, and
these people were much the same as the Dalhousians—they even went to

school and studied the same subjects.

with the Dalhousians—and

In fact they wanted to be friends

to prove their good-will they wanted to

have some parties and invite the Dalhousians.

Now, this sounded very fair to the Dalhousians and they gave
to the family council permission to take part in these activities. This

they did for several years—with varying degrees of success.;
One branch was known as the National

activities took several forms.

The

Federated Council of University Students, another was called the Can
adian University Press.

Then one year—about 1946-47—the family

council decided they should investigate all these things which were yoing on—as they had lost touch with them.

They investigated—and can you guess what happened?

Wiy.

they decided that the Dalhousie family was not receiving a proper
share in the profits, though what these profits were, mo one seemed

able to say.
part in the organizations.

So—gentle reader—they wouldn't let th Dalhousians take
And in December, all the other boys and

girls from all the great lagd of Canada met to discuss problems which
affected them all, and they looked all around, but they couldn't see

ferences without the Dalhousians.

Now, isn’t that a sad tale?
No!

have a party they just won't invite the Daihousians.

But it isn’t the end of the story.
We think that the next time the other boys and girls in Canada

anyone from Dalhousie. So they had to go ahead and have their con
Oh,
They'll say—No,

the Dalbousians didn’t want to play ball with us, now we'll just let

them sit down there on their own little peninsula and rot for all we

care...

And the moral of this story is:

No matter how much you stick

your head in the sand, the big, bad, outside world goes right along
without you—because after all you are only a little drop in a big

bucket.

 

EDITOR’S MAIL

Dear Sir,

Some of your recent correspondents, in criticism of the C
C. U. F., have alleged that C. C.

UU, F’ers are blind to other points,

of view, unable to arrive at intellectually hongst ‘conclusions,
and that C.C.U.F. meetings are
“open only to Fellow-worship
pers”.

May I draw the attention of

" your readers to the facts that C.

Cc. U. F. meetings are open to all.
that the C. C. U. F. executive has
gone to considerable trouble to
obtain spokesmen of other partjes, and that C. C. U. F'ers ail
would welcome the formation cf
opposing political clubs on Dalhousie campus?

Most ©. C. U. F.era were brought
up in Liberal and Conservative
homes. They have come to accept socialism only after considerable indignation at the inequal
ities of society and after considerable study of the various proposals for its improvement. The
process has involved much study
and reflection, and not infrequentiv, hardship.

The life of a socialist is one
of continual examination and reexamination of the facts, Far
from being predjudiced to other
points of view, socialists are wellknown ‘for their lack of “‘racial’’
and religious predjudice.

CCUF'ers welcome the widest
possible presentation of all points
of view, not only in Dalhousie,
but in the entire world. They
believe that as they are right,
such all-inclusive examination will!
lead others to their conclusion,
and if they are wrong, they wish
In the words of Christ, “The
to be led from the path of error.
Trath shall set you free.”

Yours sincerely,
DAN LIVINGSTON

Ee ————EEE———————————E—E———e———————eEEE———eEeEV7~EE

International Student Service
“reports that medical students at
‘the University of Milan have used
light bulbs for florence flasks in
smashed
by the Germans.

 

‘The Canadian representative on
the International Student Service
Secretariat, Gerard Pelletier is at
peed in Austria distributing
several tons of food sent by Bri
 

Max Horngacher, Hungarian representative of International Student Service reports from Yugoslavia that 72 out of. 180 scientific institutes were destroyed in
the war.

Twelve dollars contributed to
International Student Service will
provide a destitute student in India with a month's lodging and
food,

an i a —
< =
*

 

-————— 
ees DALHOUSIE GAZETTE
New Year's

'
Resolutions

January 1 is the recognized
time to-make New Year's resolutions. This year Dullhoosie went
one further.
revolution. No longer will the
proud old College be known as
Dullhoosie. As of January 1 it
is Sharphoosie—and for all you
stoodents there are drastic changes ahead. Yes!

Sharphoosie is to be the first
of a whole series of New Streemlined Colliges designed to turn
out the future leaders of the
nation and instrance salesmen.
All is revised. Shaw’s spelling is
to be introduced—and the whole
staff (5%) of librarians worked
for several days during the vacation translating the MacDonald
Memorial Library.

Contrary to popular opinion—Latin has NOT been abolished—
rather it has been revised and
brought up to date. Declensions
have been limited to two, and
genders to one, Cicero, Cicero,
you ought to see the old tongue
now!

It is in the department of Modern languages that the most far
teaching changes have been
wrought, however. As no foreigners are expected to attend Sharphoosie to learn their native
speech, languages have designed
to meet the -requirements of
stoodents. The basic formula “I
see the inkwell with which my
uncle has dyed my grandfather’s
cousin (f)"’ will be retained, but
all else has been changed.

In the Anruish department —
WOW! Since all best books
have already been made _ into
movies (viz: Kitty, How Groan
was my Valley. etc.) classes will
of two hour technicolor
showings. Qualified projectionists
will take the place of professors.
While in the experimental stace-—
ALL lights will remain on during
class.

The Musik department will become one vast burlesque theatre
in Which all students will partake
while talents scouts circulate
through the crowds in an attemnt
to locate the New Chycowski.
Labs will consist of search parties
to locate the Lost Chord.

The motto of the University
will be changed to “Ipsum Gowa
Honi Soit Qui Mal Y Pense Per
Ardva Astra et Lunar ete.” which
transiated from the Esperanto
ecounls “How to win friends and
Influence people.”

There will be no room
lageards, sluggards, and practical!
jokards. The whole trend of the
Collige will be to get A Head.
Those who can not get A Head
will get da Axe.

Insurance salesmen and those
in the know—such as butchers and
street car conductors predict a
bricht future for Sharphoosie. In
fact they predict it will be so
b“ieht that it consume itself in a
blaze of glory and leave only a
pile of ashes as a brave memorial
to the Brave New World.

JOKE (!)

A certain Scottish professor
and family sat down to Sunday
dinner.

“Now children,” he said, “‘do
ye want the cold meat or a nickel

+} .
-2€

consist

for

apeice?”
Three hands shot up for the
nickel, The meat was removed

and his wife served the apple
pie.
“Now,” said he, “who wants a
piece of pie for a nickel?”

> * s *

Frosh: (net a_ brilliant conversationalist) A thought just
eame into my mind and went away
again.

Cofed; (bored) Perhaps it got
lonely.

< ~

Dullhoosie made a

 

 

“Boy oh boy .. am I ever ready for a Sweet Cap!”

SWEET.CAPORAL CIGARETTES '

" The purest form in which tobacco can be smoked”

 

: College Rings
And Pins

Dalhousie rings are now
in stock—for your convenience.

Themas Wallece
SONS & DAUGHTERS

Class orders for pins take
time at the factory—it will
help if you order early.
Henry Birks & Sons
. > ;
Limited f

Optometrists & Opticians

Y. M. C. A. BUILDING

Jeweller, i Halifax, Nova Scotia
American Gem Society c
Halifax, N. S. ¥

Registered

aoe tA é

 

Say SCHWARTZ

and be sure!

 

It was a good slogan in war. ‘It is now a good slogan in peace:

“Say Schwartz and be Sure”. We urge it for your protection
in Coffee, Spices, Peanut Butter, Jelly Powder, Baking Powder and Dried Fruit.

W.H. Schwartz & Sons Ltd.

Canada’s Oldest Coffee and Spice House )
Founded in Halifax in 1841 |

)
!
that you may be assured of the incomparable Schwartz quality |
)
:
|

 

Dathousie University

Halifax, Nova Scotia

Largest Staff, Libraries and Laboratories in the Maritimes

The Faculty of Arts and Science

enjoys international distinction

 

Degrees of: Diplomas in:

Bachelor of Arts Engineering
Bachelor of Science Education
Bachelor of Commerce Music
Bachelor of Music Pharmacy

Master of Arts

Hospital Pharmacy
Master of Science

Mining Geology
Pre-Professional Courses

Hlonour and Advanced Courses in many departments

in the B. Sc, course about $210.00 a year

in the R, A. Course average about $160.00 a year
Many valuable scholarships, on entrance and through the courses

Regional Scholarships awarded on the result of examinations held in

February in any Maritime school. Special $600.00 scholarships for Hon
our courses in Classics, Mathematics, Modern Languages and History,

Inclusive Fees

The Professional Faculties

Law, Medicine, Dentistry, enjoy an unexcelled reputation.

Residences

Women students live in Shirreff Hall — one of the finest Women’s
Residences in the Dominion. Residence is provided for first year men
in the University Men’s Residence, Other men students live in either
of two affiliated institutions or in selected and approved homes.
Special arrangements are being made to accommodate married and
single ex~-service students.

Meals for all students are available at the University,
For full information write to THE REGISTRAR.

a

Mg

w

  
    
  
*

Cs

F

i

‘

ee ,

,

‘obliged

—
=
a
q

a,
‘pr a
a
ale

—
i
—

r A few days before exams enveloped Dalhousie in a

cloud of despair, several students met to hear Mr.
on Campbell, Canadian Executive Secretary, Inter
national Student Service, outline the post-war program of
_ the 1.S.S. Mr. Campbell’s visit to Dalhousie was the last

lans. .

During the war yeurs Dalhousjans were acquainted with I. S. S.
as a relief organization, an .organization to which they duly
signed over two dollar caution

deposits on Council election day~
and then promptly forgot. With

the end of the war, and subse
» vent reconversion of everything

ley.

«

h


*

*

from hairpins to automobiles, 1.
S. S, has ceased to function solely

for relief. Once again it is turn
ing to the students of the world,
offering a student service, by
which students and professors of
all nations may meet each other,
visit each other’s countries, and,
when the need arises, help each
other. *
1.8.5, Completely Impartial

In an attempt te indicate these

trends, Mr. Campbell answered a

feries of questions pertinent to
the organization. He hastened to
point out that I. S. S. is complete
Jy politically neutral, religiously

impartial and without prejudice
of race or color.

1. 8S. S. is based upon an ideclogy—the sincere, disinterested
search for truth. But—this iceology is only the basis. I. S. S. is
intensely practical, characterized
hy the work it accomplishes. To
Canadian students, it offers no
membership in a definite organization, It does offer Student Exchange. correspondence schemes
with students around the world,
publications, and a chance to aid
in student relief programs.

Close co-operation with other
international bodies will be maintained, particularly with UNESCO
when the constitution of that body
is ratified. This year I. S. S.
will direct its work in emergency
aid to students, wyniversity resrearch, and international education—conferences, exchanges and
student association,

Needed At Dal

Ak an international body, T. S.
S. can answer a long standing
need at Dalhousie for an organization offering participation in affairs beyond the bonds of campus
or nation. To start the wheels of
organization prior to the formation of an I. S. S. committee on
this campus was the reason behind
Mr, Campbell's visit, Such a committee must be composed of students interested in“kuch work. In

(Continued on Page 8)

D . V. A.

1. All ex-service students receiving benefits must explain to
the Veterans’ Adviser if they have
missed any examination.

2. To qualify for continued
benefits ex-service students must
remain in all classes unless special permission is given for change
of course. :

8, All married personnel, or
others with dependents, who are
now, or who have been en§tled
to “living-away allowance” (main
“y taining two establishments) should

.

complete a form supplied by D. V.

A. which may be obtained at the”

‘Vetreans’ Adviser's Office, if
they have not already done so.

_4, Any unclaimed December
cheques will be returned to D. V

ned to D. V.

Stop on the eastern section of a trans-Canada tour of
universities, designed to acquaint students with I. S.'S.
student body as a whole, he was
to confine his talk to a small group of interested

New Political
Clubs At Dal

Progressive-Conservatives

A group of students met last
November to form the Dalhousie
Progressive - Conservative Study
Group with the aim to study the
platform of the Progressive-Conservative party as applicable to
the needs of today. This will be
accomplished by study material
and the procuring of outside guest
speakers. To prevent the forming of biased and provincial attitudes the guest speakers will
represent each of the three main
political groups of Canada.

The first speaker will be Mr. R.
Ritchie, prominent Halifax harrister, who. will present the views
of the Progressive-Conservative
party to the group,

The temporary executive of the
group is composed of Roy Biack,
president; Mark Yeoman, vicepresident and Len Mitchell, secretary.

A meeting of this club vill
take place on Tuesday, January
14, at 12:00 noon in Room 3 of
the Arts building. In keeping with
the policies of the group, the
méeting enconrages the attendance of any interested students.

Political Study Group

At a meeting. held before

Christmas a club was formed with

the intention of studying the
political theories and philosophies
of all Canadian parties. The
spokesman of the club, George
Hawkins, announced that it is
their intention to invite speakers
of various ‘‘political colors” to address their meetings, with the aim
to promote open forums and discussions among students.

Politics Neglected?

It is the opinion of the three
existing political clubs at Dalhousie that politics have been too
long neglected by students, and
that, whereas university students
will take leading parts in their
communities, an intelligent and
unprejudiced study of political issues should be made by all.

r

Six thousand student refugees
in Pao-chi, China, living in caves
and sleeping on mud floors, were
recently supplied with 1500
blankets by International Student
Service at a cost of 7,500,000
Chinese dollars.

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

nternationalism @Q7,
= ‘ a La
-or Dalhousie?

CANADA'S

GREETINGS

Christmas and New Year greetings addressed to the Students’
Council and the student body

‘re received from the students of
ee following institutions:

Acadia University

St. Francis Xavier University

Mount St. Vincent College

Mt. Allison University

University of New Brunswick

St. Dunstan’s University

Sir George Williams College

Univessity of Toronto

Queen's University (Alma Mater
Society)

Queen’s University
ciety)

University of Western Ontario

University of Manitoba ~*~

University of British Columbia
and from

J. & M. Murphy, Ltd.

Veterans’ Taxi.

(Arts So
King’s Xmas
Concert

The excellent work of the Dalhousie Glee Club’s mixed chorus
was carried on during the holidays, with the presentation of a
Christmas Caro] service on Monday evening, December 23. The
service was held in King’s Chapel
with the kind permission of Dr.
Walker. .

The programme, under the capable direction of Geoffrey Payzant, chorus director, was composed of familiar carols, some of
which were sune congregationally
by those in attendance. Beryl
Farmer and Shirley Williams were
heard in the well-known “Jesu
Bambino”, arranged for soprano
and alto duet, and the solo parts
in “‘We Three Kings” were taken
by Gordon Hart, Cyril Bugden and
John Pauley. Two selections were
rendered by the ladies’ chorus.
The programme was accompanied
by Geoffrey Payzant on the chapel organ, and announced, with
comments on the origin and
period of each carol, by Cyril Bugden,

The recital was well attended
by an audience of local students
and the public. General approval
was expressed at the excellence of
the evening’s programme, and a
cimilar degree of musica] enjoyment is anticipated on this Friday night, when the chorus will
again appear in the annual Glee
Club “EVICOMS” with six choral
selections, The local members
have been. practicing with Mr.
Payzant throughout the holidays,
and results should prove most
creditable to the director and his
group.

The Man Who Came To Dinner

After a great success in “Twelf
th Night” H. Leslie Pigot has re
turned to the campus to tackle
the direction of his second play
at Dalhousie this year. “Casting
of “The Man Who Came To Dinner” was a difficult task for many
reasons. Exams were closing in,
the Shakesperian had just been
completed, new namies and faces
had to be found because one

‘major production is the most any
student should attempt in one year

and also because we must keep
training new actors to prepare

4
oe
ae

for following years, but surmounting all these difficulties the play
was cast before the students left
for their vacations. Rehearsals
have been carried on with those
who live in town and now the
preparations are in full swing.
Lloyd Soper is playing the leading role, “Mr. hiteside,” and
with a few exceptions most of the
players are new to the Dal, stage
this year. This performance
promises to be a great one so you
can look forward to seeing it en
the 31st of January 1947,

4

OLDEST STUDENT

Passing

PUBLICATION

Parade?

The climactic results of pent-up feelings were the
bursting and spilling over the floor of the Lower Gym on
the morning of January 6 of tears,—tears of grief and
tears of joy. Students pushed and elbowed through the
multitude béfore them, no longer able to hide their emotions, raving and frenzied animals, hungry for news expected to be bad and hoped to be good. Cries of “‘Oh, a
first in History 9,” and “Oh, another first’”’ echoed and
re-echoed through the gym, and only the observant noticed
the cowed and beaten ones wiping bitter tears from their
baggy eyes as they silently eluded former friends and
brooded over irate parents and mused of long walks on

short wharves.

EVICOMS

TONIGHT

The Dalhousie Glee and Dramatic Society welcomes the return
of all students and planned to
start off the New Year with a
musical touch, Tonight, Friday,
Jan. 10, at 8.00 p.m. the music
department of the Glee Club will
present their annual concert,
“EVICOMS" for the enjoyment of
all members of the student body.
Feeling the need for a name,
other than the words usually used
to describe a concert, we have
developed the word “EVICOMS”
from the first letters of each wore
in the descriptive phrase, “Bvening of Vocal, Instrumental, Choral and Orchestral Musical Selections”’.

The component parts of Evicoms
are the Dalhousie Concert Orchestra, the Dalhousie Chorus, the
Dance Orchestra, and our individual artists both vocal and instrumental. A wide variety of selections will be performed to meet
the tastes of all. Come and enjoy
the talents of our own university.
Evicoms is being presented for
students only tonight but on Sa‘urday evening it will be for the
benefit of the public, so tell your
friends about it.

While most students have been
giving their minds a rest from
student activities during the holidays Frank Padmore and the concert orchestra have been slaving
away over their scores. Rehearsals have been regular and very
well attended. Congratulations are
in order for the director and
members of the orchestra who
have devoted so much of their
time to practice in order to present a fine performance tonight.

So too have the members of the
chorus been active during ‘the
holiday season. Through the untiring efforts of director Jeff
Payzant and the splendid cooperation of its members the Dalhousie chorus has not only «iven
a splendid recital of Christmas
music in King’s chapel but they
have been holding many practices
in preparation for this evening's
concert.

Evicoms will also be flavored
with a touch of the modern mood
by Don Warner and the Dal.
Dance Orchestra, and the evening
will be balanced off by our individual soloists.

International Student Service
found at Vienna that a plate of
dry noodles and potatoes with a
bit of lettuce, is the usual fare of
Viennese students. *

The GRIPES (Gazette Research
Institute on post-examination sorrows), ever on the alert for expressions of opinion, selected students at random and procured the
following statements.

Exams Fair—But...

This from a third-year student:

“I think that the Dalhousie exems were, on the whole, very fair.
There seems to be a sadistic tendency, however, among certain
members of the staff. who consider exam time as their hour to
Strut and fret upon the stage.
causing them to wield their bluepencils with all the rapaciousness
of a plantation bull-whip. This,
no doubt, is the cause of the glaring discrepancy in the results. In
certain subjects almost all pass,
and in others, the majority of the
elass fails. I have often wondered
that this did not affect their professorial pride, for it would seem
that the best teacher would have
the most successful students, and
viee-versa; but, of course, the
philosophers say that there must
always be sad people in the world;
and less important, the university
standard must be kept up at all
cost,”

So The Story Goes
Muttered a second-year student:
Portal to portal pay is what I
want.”

This from a first-year student.
“There’s something wrong with
the marking.” And on being asked
his results, he averred, “Well, I
got four firsts and only got a pass.

(Continued on Page 7)

NOTICE
BOARD

Dawson Geological Club
An illustrated lecture will be
given by Prof. G. Vibert Douglas
based on the geological results of
the Newfoundland-Dalhousie expedition to Labrador in 1946.
Place: Chem, Theatre. Time: 8
p.m., Saturday, Jan. 11. All stu
dents are permitted to attend.

*

Inter-Faculty Debate

Law 1 ve Law 2. Place: Munro
Room. Time: 7.30 p.m. Subject:
“Resolved that all remaining appeals from decisions of Canadian
Courts to the Judicial Committee
of the Privy Council! should be
Abolished.”

First Inter-Collegiate Debate
King’s vs. Dal. January 16.

Millionaires Ball

Sponsored by Commerce Society. On January 17. Dancing
from 9:00 until 1. Don Warner’s
Orchestra, A sweater dance,
Watch the notice boards.

 
  

  
 
  
  
  
   
  
  
 
   
   
  
    
   
  
 
  
   
  
   
 
  
  
  
   
  
 
   
 
   
  
  
  
   
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
   
    
     
  
  
   
   
 
   
  
    
  
   
  
  
   
  
    
  
   
  
 
 
   
   
   
   
  

Sidelines

BY DON HARRIS

7 a 3

php: is just around the corner and so are the Dal hockey and
ball seasons in intercollegiate play, which reminds us of many
_ with special reference to student support for their varsity

This year, the intercollegiate schedules call for games in hockey
and basketball for Dal almost every week-end, which means that lots
por student vocal encouragement can be used. In the past few years
| [pie support has been sporadic at best, and, keeping in tune with the
_ times, it is about time for Dal to turn over a new leaf and give constant backing to their representatives. Dal students, like those of most other universities, are always
quick to criticize. Let us hope that this year they will be just as quick
and just as fervent, in their support for their teams.
) Particular sections of the campus have been guilty of non-support
ery for Dal teams throughout the year, discovernig a sudden interest in
their activities just around campus election time, although even then,
rf _ they sometimes have difficulty recognizing their own’ players, which
- *" gives one the impression that they might possibly be cheering for the

_ other side. While this is a noble attitude and one to be highly re\@— commended, we hope they will manage to save a wee bit of support
for Dal squads.
; ‘
Past ’ WHERE ARE ARTS & SCLENCE?

a This, too, is in the $64 category? For years and years, Dal student societies (and they say at'times, even faculty members) have
inquired as to the whereabouts of this mysterious, almost invisible
body. Professors cast surly looks at student heads, accusing them of
luring the innocent lambs to the proverbial extra-curricular execution
while the student heads rant and rave at the injustice of a university
curriculum which requires the students to attend classes instead of
- outside activities. The result—no sign of Arts and Science students,
u in any numbers (except in the GAZETTE office) around the campus,
or even under the odd stone, gathering moss.
_ Tf any of these rare characters are seen wandering in the enirons of Dal, all other students are requested to direct them to the
bt nearest rink or basketball floor, where they might he persuaded to
P witness an athletic encounter of one sort or another, the like of which
they have pepbany never seen. (P.S.—The Dal colors are GOLD and
BLACK).
ae As for the Sichiecrs von sre pretty good sport fans, boys.
me Keep "em coming to our games as you have in the past. Ditto for Comil merce.
SPORTS EQUIPMENT FOR THE STUDENT BODY 4

The two sports in which Dal students are most active are badminton and ping pong, as far as active participation goes, yet these
sports receive the least attention on the Council budget.

Ps + While there has been some improvement in the supply of Badminton birds this year, the Council should urge the university authorities to look into the lighting system in the Gym. In the western end
of the Gym it is very difficult to follow the path of the bird, due to

nw the bad lighting, and a similar difficulty is experienced in basketball

| a in both side courts and in the main one.

the men’s locker room. A great many students derive pleasure from
he this activity and steps should be taken to provide better facilities for
them, since it is one of the few sports in which a large portion of the
student body actively participates, At a small expense, the lighting
over cach table could be improved so as to eliminate the giare thrown

_—s gn the tables under the present system.

JUNIOR BASKETBALL
Since the last issue of the GAZETTE, a meeting of the D. A. A.
©. was held to clear up the muddled junior basketball situation, with
“members of the Sukaroks in attendance. After considerable discussion, the D. A. A: C, executive decided that it would not try to keep the
junior squad from using the Dal floor for practices, although they
deplored the attitude taken by the janior players in meeting the

troublesome problem.
J Thus there will be two junior teams at Dal this year, for better

or for worse, and there is a strong possibility that both teams will be
entered in regular competition.

1. 4

 

) Fader's Drug Stores

135 HOLLIS STREET
29 COBURG ROAD

Fite Halifax Nova Scotia

 

 

. va : STUDENTS MEET at
DIANA SWEETS
TEA ROOM

368 Spring Garden Road
Toasted Hot Dogs, Lunches
and Fountain Service

 

EVANGELINE |
TEA ROOM

Commonly known as JOE'S
| 280 Quinpool Road
Deity. | HALIFAX, N. 8.

 

 

a Whe lighting problem is also a dominant factor in ping pong in’

 

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

 

   

Friday, January 10, 1947

 

 

Clean Junior Basket- |

 

 

 

CHURCHILL-SMITH

The smooth-working Varsity
centre from last year’s first
string attacking unit, who is
again showing his wares to the
Dal hockey fans, This nifty
playmaker should do well this
year, as he is rapidly rounding
into shape.

 

College News
In Maritime

Basketball

There has been a considerable
wave of activity on the campi of
the various Maritime colleges during the Christmas vacation, with
several intercollegiate squads
showing their wares in exhibition
contests. These games give some
indication of the comparative
strength of the different teams,
and show promise of making the
1947 intercollegiate basketball
league in the Maritimes a real
strnggle between three or four
teams, instead of the domination
of play by any one team, as has
been the situation during the past
few years.

The biggest change this year
will be shown by U.N.B. hoopsters
who have dominated the Maritime loop for the past few years.
They have tasted defeat five
times in exhibition encounters this
vear, their first losses in four
years, and are a much weaker
squad than last year. Missing from
that team are Ted Owen and Dave
Stothart, who is ineligible for intercollegiate play, although he can
play in other contests. With his
key men gone, Howie Ryan has
yet to come up with competent
replacements and it looks as if U.
N, B. will have to relinquish its
strangehold on Maritime honors,
unless they come up with some
unexpected strength.

Strong Contenders

One of the strongest contenders
for Martime laurels in basketball
this year will be Mt. A, who have
come up with a very strong squad,
as shown so far. They soundly defeated Saint John Trojans, who
in turn took the measure of U. N.
B. Back frem last year are Robmae Keefe and Ketchum, while
a ght new prospect has shown
up in the person of their 6’ 2”
freshman centre from south of
the border, who will prove a real
threat in intercollegiate play, if
he lives up to advance notices.

Down St. F. X. way, the Xaverians have come up with much
the same team which defeated Dal
last year, although they may miss
Frank Mooney and Kyte, neither
of whom will be playing this year.
Led by Lorne Whalen, Fraser

ball, D.AL.A.C. Report = *

(By BERNEY CREIGHTON)

On December 8, 1946, the D. A. A. C. Managing Committee met
with the Sukarok Junior Basketball teanmi and the Dal coach and managers, to hear all sides of the basketball question, as explained in the

last issue, and to make any necessary decisions,
ering, with many heated arguments heard from all sides.

It was a stormy gathTowards the

end of the session the Sukaroks and the Dal coach and manager were
asked to leave while the Managing Committee straightened the issue. s
~ After more discussion, it was agreed to put a clause in the consti
tution to guard against any such event in the future:

This new clause

would prohibit Dal students from playing with outside teams, except
with the permission of the Managing ae This question will be

discussed at the next meeting of the D. A. A.

The D.A.A.C. strongly disapproves the action of the Sukaroks,
but as there is no existing clause
in the constitution governing such
circumstances, no action will be
taken against their players.

One other item was introduced
at the mecting, the matter of
Squash at Dalhousie. The university has kindly allowed the use
of the faculty squash court to the
students for mornings only, and
anyone interested in the game
should get in touch with John
MacCormack, Physical Director.

Badminton

Badminton has taken a high
seat at Dalhousie. Under the able
leadership of John MacCormack,
an exhibition tournament has been
arranged with Truro this Saturday, and a selected, team, paying
their own expenses, will make the
trip.

The intercollegiate Badminton
tournament is scheduled to take
place sometime in February, and
trials for the team will start in
the near future. Those wishing
to try for a place on the Dal
squad and who are interested in
the college tournament, should attend the Monday night sessions
and find out particulars from the
physical director.

 

Mooney and Bill Ritchie, the
Xaverians will provide stiff competition for all comers, and seem
to be the team to beat in Nova
Seotia, At present they are on a
road trip but little can be judged
from these exhibitions, since they
are not playing their regular
equad at all times.

Acadia is the unknown quantity

in this year’s loop, but, unless
they have come up with some

very good men this year, they
should not be serious contenders
for Maritime honors, since their
last year’s squad was quite weak.
It shonld take them a couple of
vears more before they can provide a dangerous contender, although Kelly’s boys come through
when least expected to by the
opposition.

Local Squads

Tech are now playing in the
Halifax senior loop, but find their
chances for intercollegiate honors
limited due to lack of practices.
They are not playing against good
competition, thus have little opportunity to round into shape for
the much stiffer competition likely to be encountered in intercollegiate contests. Lack of practice
has been the Tech nemesis for
many years and again seems destined to take its toll.

Dalhousie should provide one of
the major threats for the Maritime title, along with Mt. A. and
St. F. X., if their recent performances are any indication. The Dal
team is stronger than last year’s
aggregation, with Giffen, Dunlop
and Farquhar back from last
year’s squad and promising newcomers high-scoring Scott Mortison. the freshman left forward
and Rng Pritchard, the flashy
new guard, available to pace the
Tiger attack, Dal’s second stringers have not yet shown much scoring power, but may develop into
a potent attacking unit with a
little more experience.

  

C. Forum. b

Boxing is coming along under
the coaching of Jack McKenna,
and Manager Jim Cpuikshanks reports satisfactory progress and a
good opportunity of regaining the
championship captured two years
ago. Training periods are held in
the Lower Gym every Wednesday evening, with additional
periods for conditioning being
planned, and there is still an opportunity to gain a position on the
team.

Swimming practices have been
held regularly at the Stad pool.
Manager Kingsly Churchill has
again secured Jules Stein to
coach the Dal team, and from
early reports there is much
promise shown with such stars as
Seaman, Reade and Trump. There
is ‘still opportunity to secure 2
place on this team provided that
ability is demonstrated, but any
further participants should show
up immediately.

Major Sports
The most promising Dal team at
the present time, is the basketball squad, which has already
proven its ability by copping its
first two starts. The league scheaule will continue with games
every Saturday night at the Dal
Gym, with wholehearted student
support requested. The intercoilegiate intermediate basketbail
tournament will be held March
7th and 8th to round off the playing season and the senior team
will make trips to St. F. X., Aca
dia and maybe U.N, B.

Hockey has shown a new burst
of life suddenly, under the able
assistance of capable “Windy’’
O'Neil, who really puts everything
he has into college activity.
Windy deserves much credit for
his timely assistance in the practices, and the D.A.A.C. takes this
opportunity of thanking him for
his aid. The hockey team will begin its schedule on the 25th of
this month when they journey to
Antigonish to take on the champion St. F. X. outfit, which will
be a great test of the strength of
the Dal team.

This report pretty well covers
all D.A.A.C. activities except pingpong. Poor little ping-pong seems
to he left out in the cold although
there is a lot of interest in the
game. If some ambitious student
is willing to_run a table tennis
tournament, the D.A.A.C. will

gladly co-operate in handling the
affair. ~

’

 

DINE at

ThasNove. Sccttin

Featured on SUNDAY
Delicious Luncheon, from 75c
noon to 2.30 p.m.
and DINNER, from $1.00,
6.00 p.m. to 8.30 p.m.

With MUSIC by Oscar Welti
Trio.

DANCING at s.

The Nova Scotian

every SATURDAY night

 

‘oe .. j
   

  

  
  

oy a tevat that everyone ae glad
to get back to the joys of daily
1 sses, after the hard set of
oo ‘Christmas exams and the harder
; tg? “New ‘Yea ts: Bacchanalian obliga: ions—a large group of Dal students brought in the new year,
quite successfully, down. at the
I ‘La - Hamilton. It is fitting that
Hy eone (we hambly do it. in this
ee “acknowledge the | great
ork of the lovely ladies on the
ff of the students library. If
oe Pas individual students worked as
at their studies as the librarians work to accommodate them
with suitable books, we would all
in a year. They have

put more than one errant student
ae . through the exams—so, one big

. 5 *~ + vote. of thanks.
> * In the | last issue of the Gazette
‘there were two letters published
: on the “clarification of policy, reBa garding the consumption of alcoholic beverages”. One letter, very
ably written by Students’ Couneil President Havey, asked clarification for the students. The other was a reply by Dr. Johnstone,
Secretary of the Senate, explain» ing that although the “serving”
of alcoholic beverages at univera sity functions will not be authorty ized, the Senate does not try to
. regulate the private habits of students. This is an extremely fair
attitude for the Senate to take.
For those who prefer to read between the lines, the Senate alse
reminds them that the Students
Council has been delegated the
power to deal with those who
overstep the bounds of common
decency—let’s hope no one does.

     

—

Y

=a

The biggést laugh of the year
is the “study” sessions that took
place in the library every night,
a week before the exams. The
belles disported themselves in
thir snuggest sweaters and slacks,
seated themselves beside their
beaux With a book, over which
they peered to communicate
knowing glances at some other
fellow or girl, similarly placed, in
some other part of the room.
Slacks, which look better coming than going, have become a big
thing in milady’s wardrobe, but
A the biggest thing in slacks is
women. I enjoyed a grand evening thus, one night but it’s too
2 bad there isn’t a room for those
* who go there to study.

a lag
.
r

a

    
  
  
   
   
     
  
   
  
  
   
  
   
  
  
  
    
  
 
 
    
  
 
  
   
  
  
      
  
   
  
  
   
   
  

 

Intercollegiate

Hockey

During the Christmas holidays,
an intercollegiate hockey schedule
was drawn up and the tentative
list of games for Dal is given below. The games with St. F. X.
* and Acadia are definitely  ar
ranged, but the local arrange| ments with St. Mary's and Tech
* are not finalized.

Sa’ ° 1. 26—Dal at St. F. X.
Wed. reb 5—Dal at St. Mary’s
Fri. Feb. 7—Acatia at Dal
Tues. Feb, 18—Tech at Dal
Fri. Feb. 21—St. F.X. at Dal
Sat. Mar. 1—Dal a: ‘cadia
Tues, Mar. 4—Dal at Tech
Fri. Mar. 7—St. Mary’s at Dal.

—_—-- ee
'

Prof: Can , su give me a definition of a- ian?

oY speaking. ..pay i: ome eee right there—you! ve

!

 

- Stoodent; A woman is, general
  
 

"31-23; aed hehy: Loou

 

i Notice
Connolly ‘Shield Competition—
Each group that intends to participate in the contest must send
a tepresentative to meet with the
Glee Clab president in the Glee
Club office at one o’clock on
Monday, Jan. 13.
Chorus and Orchestra to Perform at Conference
On Sunday, the 26th of Jan. the
Dalhousie chorus and orchestra
will lead the music for the final
U.C.C. service at St. Andrew’s
church.
Trial By Jury
Plans for this production are
now finalized and both the chorus
and orchestra will be in full rehearsal after the concert is over.
The-leads have been cast and already the chorus is working on the
score. Dates of the performance,
February 22, 23.
Publicity
The Glee Club thanks the publicity committee for the fine work
they did on the last show and for
their efforts during the holidays
in preparing for our next presentation, Evicoms.
Munro Day Show
Plans for the annual Munro
Day show are now underway, A
committee under the chairmanship of Don Warner are now
holding meetings and frantically
(Continued on page 8)

 

 

In the last scheduled game of the intermediate loop,

“played before Christmas, Dal Tigers took the measure of

the Wanderers representatives, defeating them 31-23, in
a low-scoring match. This win gave the Dal team leadership of their league, with a record of two wins and no

losses.

Led by their high-scoring guard
and team captain, Blair Dunlop,
who registered 10 points in the

BOB WADE

Varsity defenceman for the
past three years, Bob is back
seeking his old post on defence
in his last year at Dal. A hardchecking, fast-skating defender.
Bob has been meting out stiff
punishment in the early workotits.

 

Hockey Sessions
Well Attended

Hockey practices got under way at the Arena during the Christmas
holidays, with over 30 local boys turning out for the workouts for the
Dal team. A total of six practices were held in this period, which was
expected to help get the Varsity squad into shape a little earlier than in

previous years,

To date, four more practices
have been held, with many out-oftown students showing up for
these workouts, which are being
handled at the present by ‘“Windy” O'Neill, ex-Maple Leaf player. O'Neill is taking over until
the D.A.A.C. authorities learn for
certain the status of Doggie Kuhn
who was originally slated for the
coaching job, but who has been
having difficulty attending practices, since he is also handling
the Truro entry in the Maritime
senior loop.

A definite announcement as
regards the hockey coach is ex
‘pected within the next week, and

in the meantime, workouts will
be run by O'Neill, So far, the
prospects look fairly good, with
many new faces appearing at the
practices and a sprinkling of former varsity © ayers. Among those
teturning from last year’s squad
to tr “or positions on this year's
edition of the Dal Tigers are Dave
Churchill-Smith, first string centre last vear; wings Eddie Cro
|Oxford Theatre :

Frid + Saturday—

“M- werade in Mexico” with

Dor .c2y Lamour. “Spook Busters” “East Side Kids”

| Mon., Tues., Wed 13, 14, 15—
“Smo ” Fred McMurry, Anne
Baxte

r.

 

‘Thurs. Fri., Sat. 16, 17, 18—
“Jesse James” Tyrone Power,
Henry Fondu. “The Runaround”
Ella Raines, Rod Cameron.

 

well, Bob Knickle, Ted LeBlanc;
defencemen Bob Wade and Rollie
Frazee. _
New Pickens

Along with these players are
many promising newcomers, and
one of the new lines working out
is made up of local students and
has shown up well in practices—
Angus Reade, Reg Crosby and
Bob Murphy. Crowell, ChurchillSmith and Knickle are practicing
as another attacking unit and LeBlanc, Carson and Campbell are
working on still another line.

There were several new faces
at the last workout, some of them
forwards, and,. although they
showed an evident lack of condition, include a few good prospects. Dal net-minding appears to
be the scene of stiff competition,
with at least four capable per
(Continued on page 8)

 

IN FINE WATCHES
IT’S CHALLENGER

Birks take particular pride in
presenting to Canadains the
Challenger Watch.

It’s. accurate

It’s beautiful

It’s long-lasting
It’s not expensive

Canada’s Best Buy in
Watches

Henry Birks & Sons
Limited

Registered Jeweller,
American Gem Society ~
Halifax, N.S.

 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
  
   
  

first half, Dal took a commanding
lead, outscoring their opponents
22-4 in the first stanza.

Showing much the same form
which brought them their first
win, the Tigers swept through the
weak defence of the Redmen at
will, with Scott Morrison counting
8 points from close in, and Dunlop getting most of his points on
long set shots. Dal passing was
effective in the early stages of the
game, setting up most of their
scoring opportunities.

Wanderers couldn't get started
in this half, their shooting being
very poor and their players being
well guarded. Don Bauld reyistered 3 of the four points in this
half.

Dal Defence Wilts

The second half was all Wanderers, as the Tigers attack and
defence cracked, Dal being held
scoreless for the first 10 minutes
oi this half, while Wanderers
rolied up 12 points, led by Don
Bauld and Adam Smith.

With the Redmen threatening
to tie the score, Eddie Rogers
found the range for 5 pointa to
keep Dal in the game, and the
two teams traded baskets for the
remaining few minutes of play.

Wanderers outscored Dal 19-9
in this half, paced by Bauld with
8 and Smith with 7, while Rogers
counted 5 to lead the Dal scorers.

Dal—Farquhar 1, Morrison &.
Rogers , Dunlop 10. Pritchard,
Giffen 3, Rosenfeld, Levine, Kelly 4, Palnick.

Wanderers—Smith 8, Campbell,
Morrow 2, Faulkner 2, Banld 11,
Horton.

 

ORPHEUS Theatre

January 10, 11

“SIOUX CITY SUE" G. Autry
“FALCON’S ADVENTURE”

_—

January 13, 14, 15
“CRIME SCHOOL”

“GIRLS ON PROBATION”

 

Page Five

Badminton
Truro Trip

Tomorrow will see 16 badminton enthusiasts journey to Truro
for an exhibition match. The
games will be played on the four
courts at Central school against
representatives of the Truro Badminton Club. This club is one of
the best in the Maritimes and will
provide stiff opposition ‘to the
Dalhousie badminton team,

John MacCormack, physical
director, will accompany the eight
giris and eight boys comprising
the Dalhousie team. This team ie
not the régular one, rather representing student badminton—yet
including some of our better players. Although MacCormack is
eonfident of a good men’s team,
he believes that the girls need
and will get, stiff opposition,
which shonld help them greatly to
strengthen themselves and in the
future to become a much stronger
team. Members of the girls team
will be P. Rundle, P, Spence, P.
McKinnon, N. Sideris, A. Castas,
M. Fry, H. Shields and J. Bowers. The boys team being B.
Bliss, D. Churchill-Smith, B.
Bauld, B. Pope, J. Bell, N. Hamilton, B. Wilson, A, Clibeland. A
return match will be held.

Twelve dollars contributed te
International Student Service will
provide a destitute student in India with a month’s lodging and

food, aes

NOTICE

There will be a meeting in the
GAZETTE office for all those interested in playing inter-faculty
nockey for Arts and Science at 12
moon on Tuesday, January 14.

 

CASINO

AN ODEON THEATRE

 

Starts Saturday:

“ANGEL ON MY
SHOULDER”

Paul Munie, Anne Baxter,

Claude Rains

 

 

DAL STUDENTS —

When in town be sure to visit Zellers

the store of value and variety,

You

will find a large assortment of articles

for every day use and also a quality

line of Ready-to-Wear, Millinery and

Shoes.

your budget.

Values and! prices to suit

LZELLERS

 

ZELLER’S (N.S.) LIMITED
Phone 8-7218

 

aga agi: - ~ 4

 

 
 
   
      
      
    
 
 

oe ee a ee

ae +

ce

|
)
    
 

—_—- : =

 

=

>

sseuu’s more neglected works is the first of his disse on Arts and Sciences, which traces the decay of
of the arts and sciences. It is a violent, onenim the prize for which he was competing. Since Rousseau’s
ciety is said to have made great improvements, and the arts and
| n fe made amazing advances, the latter, it is true, largely
‘stimulated by war.
‘The questions raised by contemplation of Rousseau’’ ideas of the
r yélation of formal education to contemporary life remind me of a story
€ velated by my friend O'Toole, scholar, literatus and man of affairs.
mtleman of Falstaffian proportions and tastes, and a confirmed
ver of Bernard Shaw, Damon Runyon and Von Rosenroth, he
Sed to make his presence felt in the upper regions of Spring Garden
toad before his departure for the Oriental Institute to study the life
of Zoroaster preparatory to writing 2 book, since issued, (En Soph and

    
    

   

  

I TE RA
1E TRIVIAL ROUND

poeiUty, which, in spite of its exceedingly radical out-
‘ the Zend-Avesta, London, 1943).

He had just returned from 2
Jecture given by Peabody, then in
the middle of his lecture series on
this continent, on Solovyov’s conception of Tohuwabohu; at least,
that’s what he told me. Personally, I sel attend lectures, particularly ones of this kind, but
O'Toole. seemed to enjoy the
things and it's a free country.

“What the dickens was that...
that thing you said he was Jecturing on?” I asked, penuinely
astonished that even O'Toole
knew what it meant. ‘Solovyovy’s
conception of what?”

“Tt js only a technical term fer
the schlechte unendlichkeit, which
you in your ignorance would call
“chaos.” He seemed pleased
about something, and I asked him
if the lecture had been good,

“Mediocre,” he sniffed audibly.
“The idot completely over-looked

- Von Rosenroth’s influence on So
lovyov, But I heard an excellent
story this afternoon (I sighed)
which 1 will condescendingly relay to you. I know you haven't
any lectures for an hour and a
half or so, so it’s no use making
excuses to get away; besides, it'll
be good for your uneducated
soul...” E

“Uneducated, hell!"’ I was disturbed. “What d'you mean, uneducated? I get my first degree
next year.”

“Degree!” he sat back and
laughed at me. “Listen. This’l!
illustrate the value of your precious degree. My story concerns
little Oscar, who, at the tender
age of sixteen, came to colleze,
and left behind him a memoraole
,fxample of Manhood, Gentleness
and Learning which no one has
Hothered to follow. He was 2 suctess at everything he went in for,
which was quite a tot. He was
president of the Cercle Francais
foy two years, of the Classics
lub for one and of the S. C. M.
dur one year in his undergraduate
days, He wa: as model church
™ goer, ahd did not smoke. Need

Jess to say, he never tonched intoxicants, and did a frightful
amount of work. His marks were
never below first divs., and he
majored in Classics with distinction. When he got his degree he
also got half a dozen medals and
things, and proceeded elsewhere
for a while. He got homesick,

however, and found residences
rowdy, so back he came to take
his master’s (also in Classics with
high honors, medals and things).
“He was a model graduate, just
as he had been a model underthe

 

“He realised his responsibilities
to the andergraduates, (how few,
alas, do) and was always a protector of them. Once, I remember,
the Glee Club was doing a play,
and one of the directors forgot to
evt out eae “damn” in it. Oscar
wrote a stinker of a letter to the
editor of the Gazette; it must have
contained fifteen hundred words,
and was half Latin. Old Bert, whos
was editor in those days, had it
translated: the gist was that Oscar
was horrified to think that the
Undergraduates had been | subjected to such blasphemous drama
and that someone ought to do
sémething about it, Bert was too
canny to risk being impeached for
sedition by not printing it, so at
the next Council meeting he asked
the Council whether it wanted a
special issue printed in which the
letter should be printed. The
Council thought he was joking,
until they saw the signature and

realised the mess they were in. .

When. a righteous fella like Oscar
starts a row, he won't stop it; any
attempt to merely shelf the matter would lock like black corruption to Oscar. The Council should
have written a congratulatory letter to him, and appointed a committee to investigate the matter
for the next five years, when
Oscar might have forgotten about
it. But they didn’t. They wanted
no part of the thing, and since
the committee method is the way
in which they usually deal, with
everything, it never occurred to
them to use it in a crisis like this.
They cursed the Editor freely for
not keeping it and its consequences to himself, refused to finance
a specially illustrated issue for it,
and sent it to the Senate. It
reached the Senate at about the
same time as Oscar arrived in
the Gazette office, wanting to
know why in goodness’ name
hadn’t his letter been published.”

“Just a minute,” I said. “Why
the dickens should they worry
about him? What could he do?”

“Ah, I see you aren’t familiar
With the ‘righteous graduate’ type,
they're all morals and principles
—no compromise. Don’t want
anything themselves, you know,
just want to do the right thing.
They write letters to papers, and
eventually the College loses face.
Can’t reason with "em—they smell
a rat if you do. Expect everything
to be fair, square and above-board.

    
     
 

  
   
 
    
 
 

  
   
   
   
    
    
   
   

‘established a student foyer

Cool is the wayward ‘breath of time
That reaps the seeds so lightly in the air
The sun has set beneath the sleeping sea *
Without a promise that the dawn he fair.

Low has the wind of night
Caressed the sleeping land,

And overhead the moon's new light
Binds the sea with a silvery band.

Deep in this shadowy vale,
Remembering dead hopes and live despair,

The visions of our passing beauty pale

To see the distant stars entangled in night's hair.

. Cool as the wayward breath of time
That reaps the seeds so lightly in the air,
The sun has set beneath the sleeping sea;
1 wonder, will the dawn be fair?

s—- .-. £23

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE. 
He was the very apotheosis of the
upright graduates, Wait ‘til you
see the Glee Club play next month
and if you notice a lot of ex
plosive “gosh-darns,’ ‘gol-dings’
and ‘oh bothers’ in it, you'll know
why.

“Anyway, Oscar arrived at the
Gazette, and Bert put him off
with a line of twaddle about subordinate errors, and promised to
investigate the matter. When
Osear had gone, he "phoned the
President of the Council and tol
him that he was going to tell
Osear that the Council was attending to the matter. The President called the Council in, and
they cursed freely for a little
while. Then the President called
the secretary of the Senate, and
told him that they would refer
Oscar to the Senate.

“A little later, a meeting of the
Senate, the Board, the Premier of
the Province and the C.C.U.F.
called in Oscar, and a long oration in Hebrew was delivered.
They caught Oscar. in his weak
spot: Sanscrit he spoke fluently,
besides Latin, Greek and Phoenician. It is said also that he had
actually deciphered some Cretan
from the Rio Tinto district, and
knew more about the Eighteentt:
Dynasty love lyrics found in
Thebes than any scholar in North
Areerica, but he knew no Hebrew.
For three hours he heard the cration, and concluded that the matter was settled; at any rate, he
hadn’t the nerve to ask about it
then. He continued his studies,
and is now immersed in the early
1440 Hebrew edition of the Cabbala. Thought he ought to learn it,
you know.”

“What's all this got to do with
a degree?” IT asked, thinking that
I had him there.

“My dear imbecile,” he replied.
“Tf you take your education
seriously, like our Oscar, you become like him. If not, what good
does it do you. At the moment
he is immersed in the heaviest
metaphysics that exist. I would
like, though, to get his opinion on
Von Rosenroth. Useless stuff —
education. Impractical.”

“Then what the devil do you
take it for?" Lasked, considerably
nettled. “Surely there must be
some good in anything you take.”

“Your sarcasm does you little
credit, my dear fella. When you
get your lovely degree, tied up
with ribbons and all, I hope you
do better. I’m impractical also,
and it’s a good way to pass the
time. Good stuff to impress the
yokels with; "bye."

He left.

Six hundred and fifty students
were able to take 5400 examinations this spring at the Milan University throngh the efforts of International Student Service who
and
stocked it with a circulating
library of 1000 books and 1700
sets of mimeographed lecture
notes, —

  

C. 8. WEBBER,

Friday, January. 10, 1947

    
  
     
    

Socialism From An
Historical Point Of View

The need for socialism grows as the mass of industry grows.
is true for two reasons.

A hundred years ago a man with a thousand dollars and the
needed brains could start manufacturing almost anything; now he
needs a million dollars and a huge efficient organization in order to
compete at all. Thus ménopolies and the obvious injustices which they
bring are possible and dangerous to an extent unheard of in the past.
A huge corporation can contro] a whole industry and rawe its prices
to exorbitant levels: in the future, under a capitalist system, it will be
able, by bungling and selfishness, to wreck the entire economy of a
nation,

This

cause of the world’s history.

Because so much capital is IM- Peordalicem declined and the age

vested in industry and so many

people are dependent on it for a
living, the law of supply and demand is not allowed to work.
When supply of an article almast
reaches demand, it is restricted by
management, thus causing at one
and the same time unemployment
and an unnatural rise in prices;
buying power is restricted: this
spreads to other industries; unemployment causes a_ relative
lowering of wages, and we have
a depression. The magnitude of
the depression increases relatively
to the amount of money invested
in industry and the proportion of
the population dependent on industry for a living.

Thus the world’s need for econemic planning has been growing
steadily for a hundred and fifty
years—ever since the industrial
revolution began.

We are on the crest of a great
inevitable wave which is surging
on, not because of itself, but be
of industry came in because the
world had reached certain milestones in its intellectual, trading,
and industrial achievements, Capitalism grew because of the
world’s desire to utilize its new
inventions and discoveries. Capitalism is dying and socialism. coming beeause the development of
industry has reached a stage
where capitalism no longer makes
the best use of the world’s resources, When socialism, due to
changing world conditions, can no
longer fill the bill, a new order
will take its place.

Economic planning, | say, is
inevitable. We cannot stem the
tide. We can only decide one
issue: shall we have autocratic
socialism, under a dictator, or
shall we have democratic socialism, run by the people’s elected
representatives? Fifty years from
now no other kinds of government
will be possible.

F. HOLM.

 

 

Dine at

The

Green Lantern
The Sign of a Good
Meal.

 

 

BASIL WINTERS
LIMITED

383 BARRINGTON STREET
i

Now Showing
MEN’S OVERCOATS, TOPCOATS,
SUITS, FURNISHINGS, ETC.

Corsages

A “Colonial” Corsage de.
signed by ROSEDALE
speaks eloquent volumes
of tenderness and love.

 

NURSERIES Limited -..
38] sarRincton sT- HALIFAX

 

 

“Heat Merchants Since 1835”

-S. Cunard and Company, Limited

HARD COAL * SOFT COAL

COKE °

FUEL OIL

OIL BURNING EQUIPMENT

HALIFAX, N. S.

DARTMOUTH, N, 5S.

 

 

:

 
   

ee ee Fas i
day, January 10, 1047
eS eee

hoe

| ae

: 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  
  

 
  

HITLER AT
DALHOUSIE?

(JACK LUSHER)

One long year and half of another have passed since the end
of the late world war, One long
year and half of another have
passed since the end of the late
Adolph Hitler, One may easily
find proofs for the latter statement in the written opinions of
our wiser heads—in learned circles it is-generally accepted that
Hitler is dead—dead and beyond
recall! One would think that in
the presence of this established
belief there ‘auld be no dissenters—but there are,

A handful of determined men
believe that the ill-fated Adolph
is still alive and in hiding. One of
the leaders of this minority is
Joseph Erdlu, the Gazette foreign
correspondent. No one can doubt
the fact that Joe (as he is commonly called) is foreign—his
home is the small town of Esperanto, situated on the border of
Afhgafistan and noted for its
numerous Yak-rustlers. The only
proof we have that Joe is a correspondent, however, is contuined
in a bundle of letters from a girl
in Great Turk’s Head, a suburb
on the Bey of Iran. She is suing
her husband for divorce and has
named friend Joe as correspondent. During his stay in Halifax
Joe has been very energetic in
student activities at Dalhousie, He
has been at one time or another.
President of the D.A.A.C., leader
of the Dalhousie Amalgamatdd
Girls Fife and Harp Band, Spymaster for the Administration and
sometime reporter for the Gazette.
Rumor has it that he is entertaining the possibility of enrolling
in the college next term.

During the lapse of time hetween Christmas Eve and New
Year’s Eve, Joe reported to our
humble abode with a story that
shook the writer into a semblance
of activity. With the air of the
man who releases the fleas in a
certain theatre that we could
name, Joe said, and we quote:
“Adolf Hitler is an Arts Student
at Dalhousie!”

After recovering our composure
we questioned the man to some
extent, for such a statement cannot be treated lichtly. It seems
that Mr. Erdlu, who at one time
had sold some rare Yak's haie to
a certain A. Hitler, realized that
Titer the painter and Hitler the
Dictator were one and the same
person,

round that A. Hitler was deceased, Erdiu was naturally sceptieal, After all, Hitler still owed
friend Erdlu the sum of four and
tyenty pfennigs for the Yak hair.

So, when it was noised

degree,

In passing we note that this Yak‘s
hair, which comes in a repuisive
shade of brindle is used to fill in
otherwise scanty moustaches.

Joe explained that on December 26th, whilst sniping butts on
the senior walk (Cold, cold work)
he had come face to foot with
Adolph who was also searching for
stray fags. Before Joe could capture him, however, the devilish
Adolph escaped in the direction
of the rookery down on the corner
of South and Oxford.

Then and there we decided to

investigate further this astounding

tale. If, on Deceniber the 29th,
you had been in the air vent in
room 3 you Would have found a
certain lack of space. We chose
the alr vent as our vantage point
because from it we could see all!
the Arts students who came in
search of examination results. We
soon spied the object of our search
—no doubt about it, the man was
Hitler,

Joe leaped from the air vent
(no mean feat) and with a resounding cry of “Yoiks! Tally-ho!
Huzza!” bounded off in pursuit of
the moustached villain, followed
closely by the writer. After a long
chase during which we appeared
thrice in a showing of “Blue
Skies’”’ at a certain cinema, we
saw our quarry hole up in a room
marked “Gentlemen"™, Not heing
sure of our status we observed
the sanctity of the wash-room and
waited outside. In a short time a
man came out but he was no
Hitler. (No moustache), Pp

The time came for some con
crete action so we rushed into the
tiled room, to find that our prey
had escaped, We wept unashamedly and time and again we cried
out in unison. Then Erdlu, slippery sleuth that he is, shouted in
exultation and pointed at the wash
basin. In it were some’ short
brown hairs. “Yes,”’ said Erdlu,
“but they are not ordinary hairs,
they certainly are not. They are
Yak’s hairs and each one is tagged
and numbered.” Picking a halfinch piece of hair from the sink
Joe sighed, and said “Yes, we almost had him; this is one of the
very hairs which I sold to Hitler
the painter "way back. when. Obviously he shaved his moustache
to make his getaway!”’

So you see, gentle reader, that
this isa crisis in which each and
every student, must assist, The

fiend must be captured before it |

is too late. Think of the face we
would lose if in years to come,
Adolph Hitler should appear on
the news-front with a Dalhousie
To all of you, man and

F i. , i.
‘THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE |

-—— 2 - _ st/7.

Dec. 24: Did lay in bed to a
late ‘hour and then up and to the
city, In a new shoppe. opened br
the man Woolworth I did encounter my acquaintances McKeigan
and Dunphee, the athletes, purchasing some baubles for their
ladies. It being a mighty cold day
| did make my way to an Inn
wherein I did encounter several
scholars, all drunk and talking
loudly of the examinations at the
college. Much out of temper with
these noisy youths I to home
where I spoke sharply to my wife
who was at the making of mince
pies, So to bed.

Dec. 25: Up betimes and to
church and there saw a wedding
which I have not seen in many 3
day. Strange to see what delight
we married people have to see
these poor fools decoyed into our
condition. It being a holiday, T did
partake of good wines from my
cellar in compary with good
friends MacDougall and MacKinnon and so to bed.

Dee. 31:—(New Year’s Ev®).
Did spend the day visiting various and sundry of my friends
about the town, and in the evedidst stay in my rooms dison serious subjects with

ning
cussing

Pa EATURES

Diary Of Sanwel Peeps

Milord O'Neil, drinking good ale
and éating quantities of salt fish
until early on New Year's Day.
At 4.30 in the morning we did
hire a carriage and delivered Milord O'Neil at his home,

Jan. 1: (1947) Up early, disturbed by a great pounding at the
door, it being a courier with news
of the night’s festivities. First of
these was Lord Bernie Currie,
loudly complaining that at the
great ball he had the misfortune
of losing one of his prized bottles
of rhum. Walking into town with
him, I did hear that Boris Funt
from the college was at the great
balli—some said that he and the
Christmas trees shared honcrs.
Again there were the usual reports on the conduct of Lady Jean
Bowers. She was present at the
great ball with Mr. Robert Pond
and did refuse him the usual midnight kiss—a truly modest young
lady albeit she has given evidence
of infidelity. On proceeding home
I dropped into the Apothecary
shop of young Noonan, he suffer
ing mightily from mal de tete. I

cannot help but
form of iilness is fast reaching
placue proportions, Sad, and sick
at heart at all this bad Living. I
home and to bed.

note’ that this

 

PASSING PARADE
(Continued from Page 3)

on Math. 87.—That was my best
subject, too.”

This from a student with reputed anarchist leanings: “Exam
inations will have no place in the
future state.”

One veteran student said:
going back to the army. You
need no brains there.”

And this from the last: “What
the hell. Forward my mail.”

“T’m
doy t

efforts of International Student Service, 180
Greek women students who had
suffered the hardships of both an
aggressive and a civil war were
sent to the summer camp of Moni
Pendeli for recuperation.

Through the

 

woman, in this fll] moment we <ay
“be aiert.” Of each new man you
meet or see ask this avestion:

“Did he have a moustache hefore the beginning of the Christmas holidays?”

1 Aint No Duck

The dean
He stuck his finger
out

and pointed it at me
and sed

mn fashion quite devout
you're flunking bad

ij see;

and then he
his index digit
underneath my nose
and sed that he was hurt
and shocked

at what

my grades disclose;

and then

SnNOOK

he sed with wrinkled frown
‘my lad,

my lad,

look here

you must bear down

and so i gathered up

my pluck

and sed
i can’t,

i ain’t no duck.

  

Page Seven

    
  
 

  

Book
Club

Busy

“This is our biggest year,”
Miss MacKay, librarian of the
Dalhousie Book Club, “but we
would like to see more students.”’

Miss MacKay and her capahle

 

said

assistant, Miss Lindsay, pointed
out that the Book Club was
originally founded to take tha

Halithe

the non-existent
that

place of
fax Public Library, so

Publie as well as the Student .
body could have access to the
better books, Now, however, the

Club eaters only to students and
members of the faculties of Dalhousie and King’s.

The librarian, who supervises
the Book Club in addition to her
duties with the cataloguing section of the main Dalhousie Libbrary, believes that every student
should climb the extra flight of
stairs above the main library and
browse around, She painted out
that the wide variety of
authors amongst the
the collection
gamut from
“The Un kK nown
omnibus of Damon

‘@ Was a
available
current material in
—titles run
Hutchinson's
Country” to an

ories.

the

- °
Runyan st

“You would be surprised at

the nufnber of facults members
who took out hooks on farming,”
remarked Miss MacKay, “and
many students eet thelr weekend reading matter here

In estimating that there ware
some 575 recent editions in the
collection, Miss MacKay made it

Boo le

supyres
the

add that
to receive

& point to
Club is eager
tions from Students
new books to he

“Our older
regular library at
each
new

regarding
ordered.

books pass into the
end of

“and our

the

year, she said

purchases are based to quite

a degree on suggestions from read
ers who make use of the Club,
Both Miss MacKay and Miss
Lindsay urged that students make
a habit of using the Book Cluh—
might be a good idea, gimmm?

 

   

ae ate

 

Li
Fars 53

" “Coca-Cola” and ies abbreviation “Coke”
are the Tegiscered trade marks which
distinguish the product of Coca-Cola Led.

   

. Hospitality
in your hands

1

COCA-COLA LTD.
Halifax

 
 
  

Tebeeri

STUCeTL

 

.and respect of all
acquaintances, and his selecYon by the Rhodes committee is

_ Al plans to go to Oxford in the
“fall of °47, where he will epeclalize particularly in economics

INTERNATIONALISM
(Continued from page 3)
‘a recent letter to the GAZETTE,
Mr. Campbell has asked for the
“names of students interested in I.
S$. S. work, promising any information they may desire. Students
desiring to take part are orged
i drop in to the GAZETTE office
for further information.

PHAROS FORMS
(Continued from page 1)
individual pictures of the students
take the form of circles or ovals;
what should be included in the
opening pages of the book; and
what treatment and whatsamount
of space be alloted to the various

clubs, teams and organizations.

  

 

 

    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
    

, Al has won 
 

up @ show suitable for such an
occasion. Please—if any of ‘you

can think of any fiendish ideas for

the show—contact Den Warner.

His phone number is 3-0885, but

for the sake of his parents don't
elaborate your ideas until you
are sure it is: Don that you are
speaking to.

The Glee Club reminds all students of the student service to be
held in St. Andrew's United
Church, Sunday evening, Jan. 26.
The chancel will be occupied by
a choir of Dalhousie students augmenting the regular Dalhousie,
chorus fer the occasion. It is
hoped that. there will be about 60
singers for the oecasion. Here is
an, opportunity for those singers
who have not had time to attend
the regular practices to appear
with the chorus.

The policy of the chorus for this
ax for all occasions is to provide
an opportunity for those who like
to sing even if they have had no
experience.

Watch the notice boards for
the first practice. The notice will
appear early next week.

Any questions will be gladly

answered by Geoff Payzant, who.

will he conducting the music for
the service.

Students who are thinking of
competing in the Halifax Music
Festival in June will be interested
to note that the chorus is performing two selections from the
syHabus for that competition.

HOCKEY
(Continued from page 5)
formers trying for the post. They
are the best-looking group fo applicants for this job to appear at
Dal in several years, and include
some names already familiar to
Dal sctudents—Rolland Timothy,
former Q.E.H.S. goalie, Bob Beer,

 

   

YOU'LL ENJOY
SHOPPING AT....

HALIFAX

 

_ PHE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

"McCLURE TO SPEAK

AT DALHOUSIE

In just two weeks’ time Dr. Bob
McClure will be on the campus.
Dr. McClure, as We announced in
the last issue of the GAZETTE,
js coming to tell why he thinks
the Christian message is relevant
in the world today. He is firmly
eonvineed that Christianity has
the answer to the world’s prob
lems. As director of the Friends’

Ambulance Unit in China during
the war, he has seen life at its
best and at its worst. He has seen
the effects of Christianity on all
kinds of people and he is no less
firmly convinced that in it is
something that can satisfy everyone.

Dr. MeClure’s talks will be
about three main aspects of the
Christian message: its relation to
the world, to this natien, and to
yourself. He ‘will tell you why
you have a responsibility toward
your fellow man, and what you
can do about it.

The program of the conference
ig nearly complete, and will be
published soon.

fullback of this yearg football
squad, and a highly regarded net
guardian from New Glasgow, Bliss
Leslie, ex-Kings collegiate netminder, Mac Cochrane, former
Acadia goalie and Harvey Me
Keough, Varsity guardian last
year.
Manager Lew Bell hopes to

have all hockey prospects attending practices by the first of next
week, and has asked the Gazette
to mention this, urging all students who would like to try for
the team to turn out immediately.

Practices will continue to be
held three times weekly, on Monday and Tuesday from 12:30-2:30
and on Thursdays from 1:30-2:30.
The first intercollegiate contest
will take place on Jan. 18 against
Tech.

:

COUNCIL NEWS

The Executive Committee of the
Students’ Council will. meet at
98°45. Edward street at 7:30. p.m.
on Monday, January. 13, 1947.

o - uv *

The Council of the Students
will meet in the Murray Homestead at 7:30 p.m. on Wednesday,
January 15, 1947.

AGENDA

1. Limitation of student offices

2. Financial statement as at
December 31, 1946.

*3. Gazette semi-annual Financial Report.

4. Year Book Budget.

5. D. A. A.C. Equipment Manager.

6. Appointment of I. S$. S. Committee.

7. Pharmacy Society Constitution.

8. Further
Committee.

report of Awards

 

Friday, January 10, 1947

SOCIALISTS

(Continued from page 1)

need for a centralized executive,
that the officers should be from
ene university or neighboring
universities. John A. MaeDonald
and Peter Scott of McGill were
elected president and secretary~
treasurer, respectively, for 1947,

Official delegates were: Alberta,
Jean Dixon: Dalhousie, Lew Millery; MacMaster, Sylvia Marcus;
McGill, John Wolfe; Queen's,
Camon Harder; Saskatchewan,
Walter Doyle; Toronto, Jack
Granofsky.

To further socialistic endeavor
the delegates set up a national research directorate whose duty it
will be to co-ofdinate a program
of research among Canadian university students. For 1947 the
head of the directorate will he at
Toronto University.

 

MARVEN’S BISCUITS

Sal
.

Mnveng

SG ia be 2s

 

for

QUALITY

FAVORITES SINCE 1906

Moncton, N. B.

Halifax St. John

Quebec Montreal

i

Fair prices

Satisfaction assured

eS

Quality merchandise

Large and varied selections

Dependable service. ~

Pleasant surroundings

>

-4

>,

es

 
