Vol. 78 ;

a
F
,

OLDEST

 

Friday, March 14, 1947

Vf.

STUDENT PUBLICATION

No 18

 

 

 

 

 

Premier Angus L. MacDonald
presents the MacDonald Oratorical Award to Bob McLellan

 

Applications
Applications for the positions of

i. Editor of the Gazette.
2. Business Manager of the

Gazette.
3. Editor of the Year Book,
, and
4. Business Manager of the
Year Book.

for the year 1947-48 will be reetived until midnight on Tuesday, March 18, 1947.

Such applications must he in
writing, and should state the applicant’s qualifications for the
position in question. They may be
handed or mailed cither to Clint
Havey, 279 Tower Road, or Murray Rankin, 9814 Edward Street

Cc. B. HAVEY,
President, Council of the Students.

I. S.S. Campaign Nets
$1,300 For Student Relief

By Lew Miller

Considering that the Dalhousie
Committee of the International
Student Service was forced to
break a new trail, it is not without a small amount of pride that
we announce that the net profit
in th erecent drive is approxiim
ately $1,300.00.

We have naturally made mistakes, bit in doing so we have
learned; and with our errors behind us, a greater than hopeilfor sticcess achieved, we look
forward to next year to make
International Student Service
more of an entity atDal.

The following is a general financial statement as of Marcl12.
(Any student may see the full
statement at the GAZETTE
Office.)

Income
Personal Contributions .$ 119.00
Campaign Returns:

Popularity Contest «.. 350.50
Hockey Game ............ 125.65

RIORUEIOO) 1 iss bo ce vcbavease cates 102.20
Tag Day .......... 2! 3853307
Bridge Party ............ 24.50
Total Income ........ 1084.92
Expenditures

Convention. Delegate
Orphestra .... — 95.00
Halifax Herald” and

ERNE Novos pes tensbrechas.<c 40.04
General Expenses 32.09
Total Exp. 2866.13
Net Profit 818.79

' s* - . . :
In addition to the above inmust add thai

were 392 students who

come we

their caution deposits,
total is .rising daily as students
report to the GAZETTE Office.
Based on last vear’s figures, it is
estimated that at least $1.25 will
be returned per caution deposit;
thus we conservatively estimate
that $475.00 will be added to out
present income to make the total
net gain $1.293.79. In addition tc
this other contributions have been
(Continued on Page 8)

 

A Cutting Scene At The Munro Day Show ...

 

 

Pope Wins Malcolm Award COUNCIL

 

BILL POPE
“Maleom Honour Students are
those who have shown themselves
worthy to receive the award by

 

the unselfish devotion of time and
talent in the service of their fel
low students. ...

This year, Dalhousie’s highest
student honour has gone to Pictou
born Bill Pope, graduating this
year in Arts. Awarded by a committee of the Conncil of Students,
the Malcom Honour Award is
annually presented to the graduating student best filling the qualifications of athlete, scholar and
gentleman. It is the highest token
of recognition for “devotion to
duty” in student activities at this
University.

Winner Pope has given freely
of his time and energies in the
service of his fellow students.
Registering at Dalhousie for the
first time in 1942, Bill immediately turned his attention to classes
and student activity. The next
year he played on the ‘Varsity
Basketball team, was Sports Ed
(Continued .on Page 8)

AGENDA

There will be a meeting of the
1946-47 Students’ Council in the
Murray Honiestead at 7:30 p. m..,
on Wednesday, March 19, 1947.

AGENDA
1. Appointment of Gazette Editor and Business Manager
and of Year Book Editor and
Business Manager for 1947
48.

2. Students’ Directory — Editors’
Report.

3. Gazette Business Manager’s
Report.

4. I. S. S. Committe Report.

5. Munro Day Budget.

6. Proposed Constitution for Arts
and Science Society.

. Proposed Constitution for PreMedical Society.

8. Disciplinary action

C, B. HAVEY,

President.

 

tHIS: WEER. .. 2.
Page 1.
Page 2.
Page 3.
Page 4.

Page 5.
Page 6.
Page 7.

I. S. S. Nets $1,300 For Relief.
Elections, Etc.

Political Rivals Match Wits.
Engineers Win Basketball.

Hoopster Galaxy — 11 to 7.
‘The Champ” by Dave Clark.
Report To Our Readers.

 

MUNRO DAY DRAWS RECORD CROWD

 

Munro Day Attendance
Soars Over 1,500 Mark

Dalhousie’s Mardi-Gras, otherwise known sas Munro Dav( 1) has

again drifted across the Styx into its own hallowed niche. in time, (2)

The morning of the great day dawned much the same as anv other

day—cloudy.

There seemed to be

a certain amount of latent? excite
ment about the city, however, and the air seemed charged with pent
up spirits, as seventeen hundred

festivities.

 

New Council

Hold Meeting

The 1947-48 edition of the
Council
Monday

Homestead. New Pres

Students held its first

meeting night in the
Murray
ident, Ross Hamilton, opened the
nHeev ng with a talk to the counceil on: its duties and responsibillties to the Student Body.

¢}

First item of business was the

election of an executive, benio

Arts and Science Girl, Verna
Leonard, was appointed Second
Vice-President, to work with the
President, Vice-President and
Secretary Treasurer. Other members elected were Jack MacCormack, Arts and
Boudreau, Medicine, and Jim
D'Arcy, Dentistry.

Past D. A. A.C. President Dave
Doig, was appointed Council Member at large. The stipend of the
Secretary-Treasurer was voted increased from $550.00 to $700.00.

Next item was the election of
standing committees, the Gymnasium and Schedule Committee,
the Gate Receipts
Malcolm Honour Committee, and
the Alumni Relations Committee.

Starting the new year on the
right foot, the council managed
to complete its business early with
the next meeting to be held on
Monday, March 17.

NOTICE

:

There will be an Arta and
Science meeting in the Chemistry
Theatre, at 12 noon on Tuesday,
March 18, 1947 for the purpose
of adopting a new constitution.

Science, Juck

Committee,

students waited for the beginning of

The first item on the dav’:

agenda Was a serious rememrance I the unders of the
U} rs) in tms ceremony, held

the Library, Murray Rankiy
president of the Alumni Assoc
ation reviewed +} Pa w . rer
reviewe the principal

penetactors, with special emphasis
on Viscount R. B: Bennett Dali< . =i
nousie’s greatest benefactor. and
Georve Wun Ci iehl Posies
corge Munro, first large seal
contributor to
~_ i, . ; .
FOHuNOWINE this ceremony the an
: rere > y 5 :
ircus Of Munro dav enter

fainments began. First came the
interfaculty basketime, in which the “irresis
Engineers team defeated the “immovable obiect”
Meds. The annual basketball battle of the sexes was played xt
half time, the co-ed clowns taking

decisive({3) vigtory over the

hapless He-Men.

The basketball games were followed by Dalhousie’s first BarQuartette contest (4)
won by the Arts and Sefene:
entry. (5) A Sigh then rose from
the assembled males, as the Feature Presentation of the aftern 1
began — the Campus Queen con
test. For more than an hour the
beauteous babes paraded before
the whistling,

bershop

panting, stompine
and drooling audience, displaying
their charms to the panel of Judges. 9(6) The contest over, all
those who had not been by ihe
music or the beauty adjourned
to the Men's residence for a supper dance, featuring more dancing than supper. The crowd then
surged back to the Gyninasinm
for the presentation of the new
Council, talks by the representitives of the Alumni and Alumnae
associations, and presentation of
Gold and Silver “D's”,

(Continued on Page 8)

 

—

 
  

 

CANADA'S OLDEST STUDENT PUBLICATION

 

Editor-in-Chief

 

AL LOMAS (3-4505)

News Features Sports
RED LAMPERT, P-1 JACK LUSHER DON HARRIS

Literary News Co-Ed Sports
ART MOREIRA LEW MILLER, P-3 FRAN DOANE

Photographer Proofreader Business Manager
DON MORRISON RALPH MacDONALD DON HARRIS

Office Manager JERRY FOSTER
Vol. 78 Friday, March 14, 1947 No. 19

 

ELECTIONS, ETC.

“Tn spring a young man’s fancy lightly turns” to the
elections. “Lightly” is, in our case, a fitting adverb; the
results of the elections were anything but gratifying to
those who hoped that this, of all years,was the year when
the “college spirit” of Dalhousie had reached a high peak.
The officers elected were satisfactory in every respect,
and we congratulate the few students who exercised their
franchise on their new Council, but the attitude with
which the elections were approached was deplorable,

The lack of anything approaching ‘an objective platform was the most obvious feature of the platform
speeches in the Gym; the assembled students were compelled to listen -to an assorted collection of self-eulogy
and veiled insults. The posters and pamphlets which
followed were even more disappointing, several of which
displayed a lack of taste which did more to damage the
cause of their authors than anything else. The atmosphere
Surrounding the affair was one of a positively puerile
desire to ape the accomplishments of Brooklyn ward
losses. he

It is not as though there were no room for improyement on the Cdmpus. The condition of Dalhousie undergraduate affairs has been crying for reform for some
time, but not one of the Gandidates took the trouble to
indicate his desire to make the Campus as such a better
place, ,

It would be exceedingly unfair to attribute this
state of affairs to the individual cantlidates; it is the result
of the cancerous apathy which haunts the undergraduate
heady of this University, which can itself be attributed to

other causes. Until the students can take upon thensselves the burden of an active interest in their own atfairs, and exert themselves at least to thé casting of a
ballot, the societies of the Campus will continue to be the
hollow mockeries they were this year.

None of this should be taken as reflecting in any way
upon the merits of the elected Councillors; they have a
difficult year ahead of them and with them must go our
qindivided support. With our congratulations, this years
Gazette would exténd to them a word or two of warning.

After the splendid work of the out-going Council
under Mr. Havey: the Council will have a high standard
to maintain: and if, as many expect, the enrolement in the
University should increase next year, the facilities in
extra-curricular activities would become, even more
limited, arul the complaints would be loud and penetrating. With the rest of the Student Body we extend our
thanks to Mr. Havey and his Couneil, and our best, wishes
to Mr. Hamilton and his. A. M.

FIASCO & FIRE HAZARD

After witnessing the gymnasium in action on Munro
Day it would appear that something is definitely lacking
— nainely some. systent whereby persons attending «a
function in that buildmg might be enabled to retrieve
coats, hats, etc., without being subjected to the rigors of
a sardine canning factory.

The convergence of two stairways to the basements
upon on tiny lobby means that anywhere between 500
and 5000 peaple go down, go up, stand still, and generally manage to block all traffic in all directions.

One solution to this almost weekly fiasco might be
some reconstruction work on the ayminasium. If*at all
possible the stairway to the’ Girls’ basement could be diverted to open through the old D. A. A. C. office, possibly alleviating to some extent the annoyance, discomfort
nnd fire hazard of the present condition. F

 

’

 

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Canadian
Campus

Student radio activity in the
universities across the Dominion
varies greatly, depending on the
degree of student interest, the
funds and the facilities available.
In only two cases are the faéulties of the universities at all involved with the programs; all the
work being done by members of
the various student bodies, and
there is only one course offered
by the universities in radio production and techinque.

University of British Columbia.

All of the very considerable
radio activity on this campus is
controlled by the UBC Radic
Society, which produces programs
on the campus as well as in local
radio. stations. Symphony concerts,
topical speeches, especially at
election time, and university news
bulletins comprise the bulk of the
programs broado&st from the
campus; while over local stations
there is a weekly thirty minute
dramatic show, a discussion panel,
and a musical,program presented
by the University Musical Society.

Perhaps the most significant
Yact about the UBC Radio Society
is that each department, including
script writing, continuity, engineering, announcing and producing,
is committed to give a course in
the subject to any interested student. The Society also owns its
own control board, and a recording
machine is soon to be made available.
University of Toronto

Although Varsity has no radio
facilities on the campus, a weekly half hour program. “Campus
Call’, is broadcast over CKEY. The
sho consists of

informal interviews and drama As for the
future it is hoped that part of

the War Memorial Scheme will instation,
able to

clude a campus radio
where will he
learn radio fram the ground arp.
St. Francis Xavier University
Radio enthusiasts at St. F. X.,
are closely linked with CJFX, the
local outlet. The

originate both on the campus and

students

programs, which

in the local studio, include singsongs, plays, lectures by faculty
members on such subjects as
Poetry and Musie Appreciation,
Biology and Geology, and play
by play descriptions of athletic
events. A fifteen minute weekly;

radio serial is produced in conjunction with a university course
on public speaking and radio pregram techniques.
McGill University

Two weekly programs over CJAD were inaugurated
“McGill Speaks” is a fifteen minyte show consisting of interviews
with campus personalities, while
“Campus Capers” half hour
comedy production presented in
serial form dealing with activities
at a mythical college In addition
there is the “McGill Radio Workshop’, an undergraduate club.
Its members make
throughout the year, some of them
from original scripts.
University of Alberta

This western uses an
average of,two hours air time a
week local
Drama and variety

presented, as well as campus news

this yea!

is: a

recordings

campus

over radio stations.

shows

bulletins and play by play descriptions of sports events. Some of
the programs

the campus itself.

are broadcast from
Other Universities

Radio has experienced little success on the remaining
mainly because of the lack of
interest and facilities. The Wniversity of Montreal used to have a
weekly program at the beginnins
of the academic year, but it was
discontinued after two months of

(Continued on Page 8)

camp,

THE PICK OF PIPE TOBACCOS

Friday, March 14, 1947

 

“Heat Merchants Since 1835”

S Cunard and Company, Limited

HARD COAL * SOFT COAL
COKE *°* FUEL OIL
OIL BURNING EQUIPMENT

HALIFAX, N. S. DARTMOUTH, N. 5S.

 

 

 

Say SCHWARTZ

| and be sure!

It was a good slogan in war.

 

It is now a good slogan in peace:
“Say Schwartz and be Sure”. We urge it for your protection
that you may be assured of the incomparable Schwartz quality
in Coffee, Spices, Peanut Butter, Jelly Powder, Baking Pow
der and Dried Fruit.

W.H. Schwartz & Sons Ltd.

Canada’s Oldest Coffee and Spice House
Founded in Halifax in 1841

Be Smarr- Look SMART

YLCREEM

THE PERFECT HAIR DRESSING

® Applied every morning, BRYLCREEM will!
keep your hair looking smart and well-groomed
all day long. The natural oils in Bryicreem
overcome dandruff and dry scalp, give the hair
a healthy, natural lustre without that greasy
appearance. All druggists sell BryLcrReem in
the handy, convenient tube. Buy today.

endl
.

 

 

  
       

= oe, Le
te
Pe P

x

NO GUM-NO SOAP-NO ALCOHOL+NO STARCH

 

|
|

 

Dalhousie University

Halifax, Nova Scotia f

 

Largest Staff, Libraries and Laboratories in the Maritimes
The Facultv of Arts and Science

enjoys international distinction

 

Degrees of: Diplomas in:

Bachelor of Arts Engineering
Bachelor of Science Education
Bachelor of Commerce Music
Bachelor of Music Pharmacy

Master of

Arts Hospital Pharmacy
Master ;

of Science Mining Geology
Pre-Professional Courses

Honour and Advanced Courses in many departments

in the B, Se. course about $210.00 a year |

in the B. A. Course average about $160.00 a year

Many valuable scholarships, on entrance and throuch the courses

Regional Scholarships awarded on the result of examinations held in

February in any Maritime school. Special $600.00 scholarships for Hon
our courses in Classies, Mathematics, Modern Languages and History.

The Professional Faculties

- ‘ i a a
Law, Medicine, Dentistry, enjoy an unexcelled reputation.

Inclusive Fees

 

 

Residences
Women students live in Shirreff Hall — one of the finest Women’s
Residences in the Dominion, Residence is provided for first year men
in the University Men's Residence, Other men studénts live in either
: of two affidiated institutions or in selected and approved homes.
Special accommodation is provided for married and single ex-service
students.

Meals for all students are available at the University.
For full information write to. THE REGISTRAR.

 

 
 

 

aa

ee peer iries Bs eaece tiling sices'ts thst thay: boliove

in free enterprise,”
eaker of the evening;

 

sey “MacKenzie

the country,” conceded Progressive Conservative spokesman, Nowlan:

The Liberal party has always been the party of reform," said Mr.

Rutledge, local Liberal M. L. A.
And so the verbal battle raged

at the political rally attended by

a hundred students and professors,

i

ours of Dal’s three political clubs.
and under the able direction of
Dr. Hancock,

Shifting into the socialist attack, Mr. Shaw pointed ont that
“free enterprise” had failed to do
anything for the present low
standard of living, that in 1942, the
peak of industrial activity in Canadd, 45% of wage-earners earned
less than $1000 and 84% earned
less than $2000. Attacking the
housing situation, Mr. Shaw stated that in 1946, every $100 spent
in production, only $32 were spent
in housing, and for the most part
houses were too expensive forthe
ee citizen,

e second speaker, Mr. Nowlan, stated that the Progressive
Conservatives were a “little left

- of centre.” His party, he explain
said Lloyd Shaw, C. C. F. field secretary, first

King js the greatest master of political expediency in

ed, believed in free enterprise,
freedom of the individual, controi
of monopolies and cartels and a
lower tariff rate. He admitted that
the Liberals professed to the same
policies, but he asked, “How do
they carry it out?’ He criticized
the Liberal Party for failing to
carry out the Commonwealth Air
Training Scheme when if was first
proposed in 1937.

Mr. Rutledge, the third speaker, said that his Party favored a
rule by majority, hated so much
by communists and socialists. He
criticized the Conservatives for the
part that they played in restricting franchises in the 1919 and
1933 elections. The Liberal Party,
he explained, is the party of freedom—of private initiative and
free enterprise. He said that
socialism might work in Australia
in an agricultural economy, but
it could mot work in Canada.

 

Thanks!

Often following such campaigns
as the recent International Student
Service Week, congratulations and
praise are awarded to the more
prominent figures. In achieving its

  

success the 1.S.S. depended greatly |

the efforts of many Dai stu
nts, and without their co-op
eration the drive would have failed.

First I should like to thank the
many students who so goodnaturedly withstood the advances of
the popularity contest boosters,
and who contributed so much of
their scanty wealth.

The remainder of my thanke
must be shared equally by all the~
following people:

To Patty MacKinnon and her
Popularity Contest; to the candidates who s0 good-humouredly
and embarrassedly bore the jibes
of the envious unchosen males; and
to the girls who persisted in
thrusting collection tins under the
moses of every other student. To
Don Harris and his hockey players who contributed $125 to 1. S_
S. To Eukie Velcoff and his dance;
Red Lampert and his Finance
Committee; Dorothy Yates and
her Bridge Party; to Jack MacCormack and Bernal Sawyer for
their tag-day; Al Lomas, Bob
Roome and Mary Louw Christie for
their caution deposits collection;
Mary Liz Cameron, Evette Epstein, Dorothy Cullen, Lily Wong,
Laura Lawton, Grace Wong, Jerry
Cragg, Edna Short, Peggy Hyland,
Wyn Shepard, Elsie Coleman, Gene
Machunr, Leah Shulman, Ruth
Paterson, Budge Archibald, Nancy
Allen, Eileen Cantwell, Jim Bell,
Charlotte Studd, Don Theakston,
Norman Stewar, Liz Reeves, Claire
Knight, Bob Tuck and his flowing
brush, Jack Lusher, Noelle Barter,
Art Moreira, Tony Bidwell, Ethel
Garson, Anne Tompkins, Mary
Goldbourgh, Mary Primrose, Mary
Farquhar, Alesh Palmer, Beth
Tillie, Marg Hatt, Mary Lou Crowe,
Terry MacLean, Ralph MacDonald,
members of the faculty who contributed a0 magnanimously, and
to the countless other students
who added impetus to the drive
with their moral, material and
monetary support. — \

Sincerely, _
LEW MILLER,
n, Dalhousie J ee

aw

 

Dot Yates To
Lead CCUF

To lead the Dalhousie C. C. U_
F. in the coming year, Dorothy
Yates, a first year student from
Baddeck, was unanimously chosen
by her fellow socialists at a recent
meeting.

To aid Dorothy in shaping the
club’s policies, Vince Morrison,
well-known law student, athlete,
and C. C. F. leader in the Dalhousie Mock Parliament. was elected to be vice-president; and Helen
Powell, an Arts student from
Picton, was elected secretary,

Dalhousie socialists, looking
back on their first year of organization, feel that they have accomplished much — they have
carried out research work on industrial and welfare problems of
today, and have prompted the formation of two other political cluhs
on the campus. They promise
greater achievments for next year.

-NOTICE
BOARD

Students who wish to apply to
the International Student Service
to represent Dalhousie University
in the student exchange to Europe
during the coming summer are requésted to attend a meeting in
Room 3 of the Art Building at
12 noon, Thursday 20th of March,
All atudents who worked with the
1. S. S. during the past campaign
are also urged to attend this meeting.

 

.

Citizens’ Forum will meet in
final session on Tues., March 18,
at the Murray Homestead. The
subject for discussion is DO WE
NEED A BILL OF RIGHTS FOR
CANADA? and it is hoped that
a bumper crowd will be out for
thismeeting.

A meeting of the Dalhousie
Newman Club will be held in the
Engineer's Common Room at 3
p. m. Sunday for the purpose of
electing officere for the coming

term.

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

CANADA'S

QUEEN

 

GENE MACHUM

With the pomp and ceremony
traditional on the auspicious occasion, a panel of upright and
keen-sighted judges chose Gene
Machum, Munro Day Queen for
1947.

Hailing from Halifax, Gene
entered King’s from Q. E. H. S.
in 1945. During the first term her
activities were confined to getting
through exams, but in the second
she entered the Glee Club. As a
member of that august body she
lost no time in becoming one of
its leading ladies with her performance of Penny in “You Can’t
Take It With You”, and a brief
but effective appearance in the
Munro Day Show.
prominent place in the Glee Club's
Dal student, and again occupied a
prominent place in the Blee Club’s
productions, particularly in “Twelfth Night.’ Her interest in Dramatics has not been confined to
the Glee Club; she took one of the
leading parts in the Arts and
Science entry for the Connolly
Shield, and will be dramatics
Manager for that faculty next
year.

Apart from these activities she
also gets through most of her
courses, and is an active member
of Pi Beta Phi, and can be seen
at whatever happens to be going
on around the Campus,

TALL, COLD
AND...

A new angle for Alcoholics
Anonymous to ponder was brought
to light in the University of Saskatchewan when Dr. C. H. Wright,
president of the Chemical Institute of Canada recently told a
meeting of the student chapter
of the institute about a man who
had tramped wearily around a
large industrial plant on a very
hot day and who had been taken
to the home of the manager for
refreshment.

“What would you like to have?”
asked the host.

“Something tall, cold, and half
full of gin.” was the reply.

“Oh, you mean my wife?”

ad

 

OLDEST STUDENT PUBLICATION

MUNRO DAY STUDENTS’ COUNCIL

PRESENTS

 

REPORT

As we near the close of a busy and somewhat hectic year, | wish
to make a rather sketchy report on behalf of the Students’ Council,
Due to our administrative set-up, most of the troubles which beset individual campus societies are heaped upon the Council for further consideration, in addition to those complications in which we get involved

on our initiative.

In this respect, we have run the gamut of everything

from an unaccustomed summer session and a tempest over liquor to 2

controversy with the Musicians’ Union.

Dufing the year the Council
has authorized and scrutinized
the expenditure of almost all of a
eurrent income of approximately
$26,500.00. In addition to this,
and in accordance with the express wish of the Student Body,
the Council has aproved the expenditure from the surplus accumulated in previous years of a
$-5,000.00 donation to the Uniyersity’s campaign fot funds and
of $1,989. for the purchase of
new athletic equipment. If we
have accomplished nothing elre,
at least we have kept student
money in circulation, and enriched the Council records with the
minutes of some 24 meetings
averaging over 4 hours each.

However, we feel that. some
more positive good has come of
our efforts. The Year Book has
been put on a much more satisfactory basis, and an old dispute
over unpaid Year Book bills has
been settled. The publication of
a Freshman Handbook and a
scheme’ of registration for extracurricular activities have been initiated. A start has been made on
centralized publicity for athletic
events and Glee Club shows. The
system of awards has received an
overdue revision. A method of
limiting the number of offices
which may be held by any one
student has been introduced. The
Gazette has dispensed its wisdom
in a new tabloid form, The agreement with the King’s Students

Council has been revised and renewed Recently, as a result of
negotiations with the University
authorities by Alumni and Council representatives, certain additions to the Students’ Health
Service have been authorized for
an experimental period,
Organizers and re-organizere
both on and off the Council have
run rampant. The Pharmacy Society, 3 campus political groups.
and Inter-Varsity Christian Fellowship have been formed and
duly reeognized. The Dormant
Dental Society and Newman Cluh
have been revived, and the I. S. S.
Committee has shown marked
signs of life. Existing constitutions have been revised or amended with vigor and abandon. ,

On the whole, we believe that
in addition to performing our
routine adminstrative duties we
have made some changes in the
organization of student activities
which will be helpful in the future.
The Student Body has entrusted a
great deal of authority to its Council We have endeavoured to use
that power wisely, and to maintain it unimpaired. We wish to
thank the many who have worked
hard to assist us in so doing, and
trust that our successors will receive a like degree of cooperation
in their efforts.

CLINT HAVEY,
President,
Council of the Students.
March 10, 1947.

 

LAW COEDS FIGHT
IN TORONTO FIASCO

By the Canadian University Press.
Toronto, March 6 — Startling repercussions took place on the
University of Toronto campus folowing the election of Pat Teney by
the law undergraduates as the “Girl We Would Most Like to be Called to

the Bar With,”

It all began when Babs Flint runner up and queen of

the Law Faculty for the past three years accused the winner of packing the polls with her friends, and of being ‘“‘a cheap chorus girl” and

“a bleached blond.”

“T have been the darling of the
law school for four years now”,
Miss Flint stated, “and I will not
give way to some insignificant
freshman who is nothing but a
bleached blonde The fact that
Teney won is proof enough that
the poll was packed by her friends.’

Everyone hoped that Miss Flint’s
comments would be forgotten and
that peace would reign on fhe Varsity campus. The following morning, however, the girls met in front
of the law building and the fight
started. It began as a battle of
words, but in a moment the girls
were rolling in snow, clawing at
each other like tigresses. Blood
and hair flowed freely, and the
snow was soon stained, and spotted
with tufts of hair.-One attempt
to part the girls was unsuccessful
and the peacemaker was thanked
with ugly scratches on his face.

By the time a group of students
crowded around the two girls to
cheer them on and no further attempt was made to stop the fight
until police arrived on the scene.
It took four husky cops to pul?
the girls apart and the twe were
dragged off to the first aid station
sereaming insults at each other.

Even then the story was not

over. In an interview with The
Varsity, Babs Flint threatened
that “that cheap chorus girl has
not heard the last of me yet. It's
bad enough when that little hussy
resorts to cheap, political chicanery to displace me from my rightful position as queen of the law
school. But when she sneaks up
behind me and resorts to low
criminal assault, then she’s asking
for trouble.”

The winning co-ed’s retort to

(Continued on Page 8)

anit
 

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

Friday, March 14, 1947

 

 

 

SIDELINES

BY DON HARRIS

te ol ig i le ae

Well! It looks like Canadian Football is going to come to Halifax
in @ big way next years Plans are already underway for this Fall, and
4t seems that there are at least three teams entered for certain, with
an invitation being offered to Dal to take part.
ie The other teams in the proposed League would be the Navy, St.
i ’ Mary's Collewe, and an Alufmini team from St. Mary’s Athletic Club or
ma’ @ Cresent Club, squad. The request for a Dal entry comes at an opportune time, as there has been considerable agitation on our campus
i to have the game introduced. The time is really ripe for the introduction of the game since there is a large nucleus of Canadian foothall
players available on the campus, composed of students from Upper
Canada, and from former Queen Elizabeth players.

‘When this issue was last brought up at Dal the chief objection
raised was the lack of coaching. This problem no longer exists since
@ coach has appeared on the scene and has offered his services to Dal,
in the person of Bill Burkhart, former player with the Toronto Argos
and the Hamilton Tigers in the O. R. F. U. for about 6 years, having
| will be in Halifax permantently, He has had several years experience
0 ' will be in Halifax permanetnly. He has had several years experience
in coaching, and has worked under the expert direction of Lew Hayman,
Canada’s top coach, therefore ceming to Dal well qualified to aid in
building up the game.

DAL SHOULD LEAD THE WAY

The appearance of the Canadian game on Maritime campi seems

inevitable, and there is every good reason why Dal should lead the way

in this new game, with all the natural advantages we now have in onr
| possession. An added incentive for bringing in the new game is the
) fact that U. N. B. is switching to the American game next year, plann| ing to play in a League with the New England colleges, especially Maine,
| and it would be a relatively simple matter to arrange games between
\ them and ourselves, since one half could be played under American
rules and the other half under Canadian rules.

As well, there are good prospects for a Canadian football team on
| the St. F. X. campus, where there are many students from Upper CanI ada and from the States. Again, it should be possible to arrange games

between the two colleges, since it is known that there is strong support
for the Canadian game on their campus.

Windy O'Neill, next year’s D. A. A. C. prexy, has stated that he
would like to see the Canadian game brought to Dal, but he has stressed the fact that it is ‘to play second fiddle to the czar’, that is, the
English game will be the primary sport “yntil such time as the Canadian
game has proved itself,”

} This seems like a fair proposition to us, in every respect, and it is
hoped that Dal will take action upon this issue in the very near future.
All interested students should think the matter over carefully, and be
prepared to discuss the topic in all its aspects, whenever it is brought!
before the student body.
FORGET CITY BASKETBALL LEAGUE
After watching the manipulation of the gentry who run the Halli
. fax City Basketball Leagues, this corner recommends that Dalhousie
withdraw from farther participation in that body, until such time 4s
new blood enters the group, to prevent undue bloodshed under present
circumstances.

To our way of thinking, that body of officials has definitely proved
itself incapable and inefficient in its handling of League affairs, and
the crowning glory came as a result of their handling of the Dal protest
They have intimated to the Dal officials that the protest would not
stand, regardless of its justification, since the officials we say, have

 

 

:

already gone on record, and are unwilling to admit their mistake.

  
  
 
 
 
 
   
    

    

PLUS TAX
OR TAXES

        
   
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
   
  

 

CANADA’ Fe
a FASTEST SELLING
CIGARETTE TOBACCO

 
     

hats (ward

 

Carl
guard, and

Giffen, varsity basketball
starry performer for
Dal during the past four years in
Basketball (4years), football (1
year), won the first edition of the
Climo Award, given to the athlete

who best combined athletic ability,

clean sportsmanship and team
spirit. Giff was also active in
Interfaculty hockey during his

four years at Dal.

WELSHMEN
DROP DAL

A left-winger named Robinson
the difference between the
Welshmen of Prince of Wales
College and the Dalhousie Tigers
in Charlottetown March 7 and he
led the locals to a 10-5 win. Robertson seored four goals and was
the games leading sharpshooter.
For the Dal team, Dave ChurchillSmith was the principal offensive
threat and besides scoring twice
he handed out three helpings.

The Tigers found themse
far behind at the end of the first
period, which of late has not been
an wnusual occurance. The score
half of them by RobertRichard,

 

was

ives

was 6-0,
son, and one apiece by
Beer and MacLennan, Prince of
Wales completely outplayed Dal
in this stanza, and the Tigers
never came close again.

The second period dragged, and
although the Tigers showed improvement, the lead built up by
the Welshmen in the first half
was not endangered “to any vreat
extent. Dal scored twice, but Beer
also got one for the home forces
and Prince of Wales were leading
7-2 at the close of the period. The

Dal goals were scored by Knickle

and Churchill-Smith.

The two teams split six goals
in the last canto. The Dal markers were scored by Churchill
(Continued on Page &)

Oxford Theatre

Mon.

 

 

and Tues.

“WILSON”

Alexander Knox

 

Wed. and Thur.
‘Claudia and David”
and

‘The Shadow Returns”
Fri. and Sat.

“Yank In London”

| and
“Torrid Zone”

 

  

ENGINEERS WIN BASKETBALL

Boilermakers New Champs
Hockey Finals Postponed

Running wild in the last four
minutes of an otherwise bitterly
fought~ contest, Dal’s Engineers

came through to win the championship of the Interfaculty Baasletball League on Tuesday, by defeating Meds, 39-34, winning the
two-game total point series by a
six point margin, 66-60, having
won the pervious 27-26.

Played before a
the- largest of the
thriller

contest,
Munro Davy
crowd, season,
the game was a from
start to finish, with
ing hands six times
final The
very doubt,

the lead chanethe
still

before

whistle. issue was
when, with

play, and

much in
four
ahead 32-31, Jim

take

only minutes to
Meds

sank fonis to

lead for the Engineers, 63-52. a

Morrow

:
two over tne

Jim Morrow looped another field
coal to. put the Engineers ahead
37-32, and practically kill Meds’

hopes for victory.

Ashley countered with a nice
field goal for Meds, but again
Morrow, the League's leading

scorer, made sure of the win by
sinking another field goal from
the bucket, to end ‘the scoring.

For the losers, Cox, MacLellan
and Morton played a smart game,

while the standouts for the Envineers were MacWilliams, who
was a tower of strength at his

guard position, along with Morrow
and Duff, who scored 13 and 11
points respectively to spark the
Engineer's attack.
Meds: Morton 4,

Stevenson 2. Williams 4,

. ~
MacLellan 56,
Ashley

4, Deacon 1. Cox 7, Epstein,
Foster 4, Moffat.
Engineers: Morrow 13, Bauld

®. Eldridge 3, D. Rogers 2, Dui
11, Smith, Hubley 2, MacWilliama
5, Thornham.

 

Dal Seconds, Aggies Tie

In one of the most exciting
basketball wames seen in the Nova
Scotia Agricultural College Gym,
this season, the Dalhousie
battled to a 41-41 tie with
Aggies. The home team was trailing by five points with only three
minutes remaining to play but a
spirited rally by N. S. A. C. re
Cubs
the

sulted in two auick baskets and
one successful free toss to complete the scoring and, wind the

in dead heat. It was the
second game in a home and home
exhibition The Dal
dropped the first one at home by
three points, losing 38-30. On
hard asphalt floor at Debert
Cubs showed good teamwork
against their smooth opponents
The good Dal
ittributed to the

game up

series. quintet
the

the

showing must be

sharp eye of

Morrison who dropped in
half of his
was leading

Scotty
twenty
teams

points, almost
total. Scotty
scorer followed by Titus of the
Ageies with thirteen. McAuley
had twelve and Smith 10. Creed
on guard played a smart game for
the home The Aggies
took the exhibition series on a
total point gin of three pornts
—74 to 71. Whilk Halifax *

N. S. A. C. also took a zg

a below-strength

forces.
mar

ame from
King’s team 3926.

Dal: Scott Morrison 20, MeKelvie 7, Frank Rogers 4, Ian
Morrison 2, Tanner, Rosenfeld 2,
Levine, Morrow 4.

N. S. A. C. MeAuley
18, Smith 10, Creed 1,
5, Collins, Tracey,
teau.

12, Titus
MacKay
Goodwin, Par
 

NAVY TRUMPS DAL 33-26

The Dal Basketball who
run hot and cold,
frigid as they lost the
Basketball championship to StadNavy in a spiritiess game
new champion’s gym. The
was 33-26. The Tiger's
universally off and
eleven

Tigers,
almost

Halifax

were

acona
in the
score
shooting
they sank
foul shots.

Dal started out in a fairly prom
was

only
.

two out o!

ising way and built up a foltr or
five point lead which lasted until
half time. Blair Dunlop was lead
ing scorer of the half with six
points, Heath of Navy»-had five.

Dal scored on only one out of five

fon! shots while Navy racked up
two out of three.
The second half started with

the Tigers out in front with a 1714 lead. However a determined
Stad offensive wiped the advantare
out and the never in

CASINO

AN ODEON THEATRE

Tigers were

 

 

“The Dark

Mirror”

starring

DeHavilland

Lew Ayres

Olivia

the game again. Their marksmanship went from bad to worse and
although they tried hard, they
couldn’t untrack themselves. The
Navy outscored their visitors 19-9
in the half and completely dominated it. Heath led the Stad winning
drive and scored 8 points to lead
all marksmen in the half. Coe came
up from his guard position to sink
four points and Service, whose
status has been questioned by Dal
Basketball authorities also shot
four points. For Dal Eddie Rogers
had two baskets. Navy sank three
out of four foul while Dal
registered on only one out of six,

Leading seorer in the game was
Heath who scored 18 points, follewed by Coe and Service of Navy
and Rogers of Dal with eight points
each.

Dal: Dunlop 7,
quhar 5,
Vine 2,

*)

“se

tries

Morrison 2, FarRosenfeld, Rogers &, LeGiffen, Tanner, Pritchard

 

Finest Quality
SPORTS EQUIPMENT

 

oPhonossyi ta

456 Barrington St,

 

 
 

 

iY
Hy
LY
4

   

 

 

 

Friday, March 14, 1947

 

CARL GIFFEN

 

CAMPUS .
ROUNDUP

WINDY O’NEILL

* After the Munro Day thirstquenching, 2 group of Dal students went down to Norman’s ordered the works, and calmly walked out, leaving a bill for three
dollars on the table. The owner, a
good friend of the college was,
naturally, greatly incensed, but
the bill was paid after a collection
was take up from some others
who came in later. If anyone’s
conscience bothers him, he can
still give the money to ISS.

° * a 
The Dalhousie Hockey and
Wolf Club paid a visit to Potato
Island, last week, to play Prince
of Wales College and had a taste
of that noted Island hospitality,
although they met up with a
much better and more experienced team. The college held a dance
for the team after the game ard
supplied a bevy of glamorous coeds. This hospitality to visiting
colleges should be adopted by
Nova Scotian universities. Liquor,
on the island is not liquor but
medicine and can be obtained only
on the prescription of a physician.
P. E. I. doctors, luckily, consider
liquor the only cure for a peculiar
cough which 99% of the Islanders
seem to haye. The temperance
precautions have been to no avail
as Alcholics Anonymous recently

set up two offices there.
me . iy °

The ISS drive went over with

abang, Approximately $1,300. was
collected, which makes the Dal,

average contribution per student ,

as high as any university in Canada ,as it should be. The drive
was given a big push by the
King’s College girls who really
went to work for needy students
and Russ Lownds. Russ, who be
came King of the Campus, showed a well turned leg, os he elected to be crowned in his kilts which
he modestly wore at knee length
Russ insists that there is no truth
to the rumor that he lost his pants
in a poker game, the previous
night.

 

ODDS AND ENDS

Althouch they won the second
game 2-0, St. F. X. lost out to
Glace Bay on thé tota} goal round
8-3 in the Maritime Senior Hockey Playdowns, However the XMen clinched the Intercollegiate
Title for another year, defeating
Acadia 5-2.

 

“THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

DAL VARSITY BASKETBALL TEAMS

DAL WINS ELEVEN, LOSES SEVEN

 

GAMES THROUGHOUT SEASON’S PLAY

Dal Tigers rolled:up their best record in basketball for several years, by winning 11 out of 15 contests

G

this year, including exhibition encounters, and games played in the City (7?) League and in Intercollegiate

competition.

The Tigers had little luck in Intercollegiate play, losing 3 out of 4 contests, but in City and exhibition
play they won 70% of their games, losing out toNavy in the finals, on a questionable victory. During the
season, the Tigers rolled up a total of 691 points, holding their opponents to 591, or an average of 40-54,

in favour ef Dal.
Oe

  
 

ALEC FARQUHAR

 

SPORT
SHORT

The St. Francis Xavier hockey
machine went down to defeat at
the hands of St, Dunstans University of P. E. L, Wednesday
night, to mark the first actual defeat of the Xaverian Intercolleriate first team in several years.

Losing to the Island squad by
a score of 8-6. St. F. X., preseason favourites to win the Intercollegiate hockey and basketball
titles, thus have been «upset in
both sports, having been defeated
by Acadia in basketball on their
own floor recently. This ‘ends the
Xaverian reign over Maritime
sports, as they marked a full year
by losing to Mount Allison in football,

 

SCOTT MORRISON

 

The Connolly Shield

On Munro Day Professor Bennett awarded the Shield donated
by Captain J. Connolly for the
one-act play which is most typically a students’ play in choice, acting and directing, to the team representing Delta Gamma. In making the award, Professor Bennett
reviewed the plays presented and

(Continued on Page 8)

Top marksmen for the “Gold
and Black” representatives were
Eddie Rogers, Blair Dunlop and
Alee Farquhar. Eddie, only able
to play in City encounters, as he
has a degree, scored 106 points
in 9 games, for an average of
11.5 points per, game. Blair, team
captain, scored 174 points during
the séason, for an average of 10
points a game, while Alec had 175
points for an average of 9.5
points per game, The latter two
vlayed in almost all the Dal
games, Farquhar missing one contest.

Dal guards Giffen and Pritchard played practically the entire
playing time.taken up by Dal
during the season, and were especially effective towards the
latter part of the season. The
other members of the Senior team
were all freshmen, who showed
promise, but who must wait until
next year to move up to the first
string.

 

BLAIR DUNLOP

bec. A.C.

With that blessed annual celebration Munro Day here and gone,
we draw nigh to the end of this
bit of space which is filled weekly
by prattle of the athletically inclined members of Delta Gamma.

Activity this past week has been
what one mizht call nil. This
does not mean, however, that we
is done. By no means. This weekend the Dalhousie campus will be
minus many of its ambitious
Amazons who are venturing to
foreign parts. The  basketh ll
teams are heading for Mt. A. fur
exhibition games, which will close
up the season for this sport. The
badminton team will also be present on that campus for the Intercollegiate Meet, and the swimming team plans to visit U. N. B.,
also for the purpose of an Intercollegiate Meet, Busy, busy, busy.

Munro Day brought with it the
annual D. G, A. C. banquet, whien
turned out to be a great success
in the Encineers’ Common Room,
Nancy McDermid spoke. In the
evening, each and every one of

(Continued on Page 8)

EDDIE ROGERS

Racqueteers

Off To Mt. A.

Dal’s capable racqueteers will
be in Sackville tomorrow to defend their
minton Title, and will be represented by an even stronger squad
than the one won the
laurels last year.

Heading the team will be starry
Noel Hamilton, Dal's top racquet
weilder, winner of championships
in three divisions in the Dal tournament. Others in the male section
of the team are Al Cleveland,
Noel's doubles partner, and Bill
Pope, last year’s Dal champ.

Intercollegiate Bad
which

1%

For the girls, Dal will be represented by Nita Sederis, Jean
Bowers, Peggy Rundle, and Marg
Fry.

 

yen

  

HERYL LEVINE

 

Co-Eds Clip
U.N. B. 11-8

In an exhibition encounter in
the Dal Gvm, last week, the Dal
Co-eds defeated U. N. B., 11-8 in
an overtime session, the score,
ending the recular time, being

(Continued on Page 8)

 

Page Five

 

 

RUG PRITCHARD

Odds ‘n Ends

At time of writing there has
been no word of the protest filed
by the Dal Basketball authorities
concerning tke championship game
against Stadacona Navy the other
night. Stad used a new player
whose status was in considerable
doubt due to a clause in the League

rules which states that a’ new

player cannot be introduced inte

Playoff competition if he has not
taken part in regular schedule
games. Apparently the powers that
be had okayed him and that’s why
Navy played him. Dal wants to
know why. Incidently, this basketBaller, whose name is Service,
scored 8 points. ‘
: e c o

After the first two weeks, the
Mt. Allison Rink Fund has reached the $700. mark. The present
Mt. A. rink is no doubt dear to

7

all those who have upon many
occasions slid down to its door,
climbed through its glassless windows or scrambled around on its
sunken ice surface. Mt. A. has not
been as fortunate as Dalhousie in
this matter of ice as the Tigers
play upon. the artificial surfaces
ef the Arena and the Forum,
Nevertheless Mt. A. took a T-4
decision from U, N. B. the other
day at Sackville. U. N, B. also
dropped a basketball game to the
Garnet and Gold in Sackville.
Acadia provided the major upset. of the season in Maritime
Basketball when they defeated St.
FP. X, 36-32 at Antigonish. Acadia
favorites to take the
title. If they do, they can thank
their ability to score upsets over

arte now

atronger teams.

 

HERB ROSENFELD

 

» Boxing Finals Mon. 8.30 p.m.-Dal Gym

 

.
!
}
}
  
   

lp, ee

 

wn Taking Notice eee

- dow while he procured one from his silver case.

 

ao
:

“University College Debating Parliament Friday afternoon dei the. government on the motion ‘that the average college woman

Sha joa

The Varsity, Feb. 24, 1947.
* os * . *
“The same evening a debate between a Freshman girl's team ...and
« Sophomore team ...was held in the reception room of Alexandra Hall,
‘when the decision went to the Juniors.”
The King’s College Record, Haliburton Number, 1947.

Confidentially, how did they do it?

“The days are aaiiity passing and October is marching to her death
ima blaze of beautiful glory. Life on the Campus is still in a — of
tation, bit there is much evidence of a return to normal.
a wise ria Xaverian Weekly, Oct: 26, 1946.

“Lf Winter comes,” you emtine ee

’ . °

“The farmers trooped in around eight-thirty. The first thing that

struck them all were the decorations.”
™ The Campus, (Bishop's U.) Dec. 9.

No artillery, what? ;
. s

TY) + : ’

: s

HEADLINES SECTION
"Ko-eds Konquer Kollege
“Slap-happy Mad Hags
Rag Sappy Sad Stags’ ”
The Georgian, Montreal, Feb, 26, 1947.

Gosh! .

The Champ...

By DAVE CLARK
Jack Adamson looked at his reflection as he walked by a platewindow on his way from the Y. M. C. A., and his greatest fistic

~ yictory. Few people were on the street and his grin was for the benefit

ef only his image and himself. He was glad that his lip was not too
swollen. He thrust his head batk, squared his shoulders and swung
his arms, not like a soldier, but exagerating the movements of his
shoulders a8 Jimmy Cagney had done in a movie that he remembered.

He thought of what he had done to Martin Burns in the ring back
at the Y. M..C. A., and at the next window he smiled again and swaggered a trifle more. He pulled his hat down further in front of his
eyes,—just like Allan Ladd, he thought. Needing a cigarette to complete the picture he halted for ‘a moment in front of another shop winHis eyes never left
the window as he lit the cigarette. He studied every expression that
he had commanded and then walked away from the shop, not knowing
whether it displayed flowers or furniture.

‘Jt was not unusual for him to be the victor in a boxing match, but
to knock out the Maritime champion was a thing to be proud of even
though it was only an exhibition bout. The fellows at Dalhousie University would have something to talk about now. He refmembered how
they had jeered when he won the inter-collegiate heavy-weight title, and
he remembered how the DALHOUSIE GAZETTE had implied that he
Was a‘dirty’ fighter. He had been called a ‘killer’. He had won his
fights fairly.—What did they know about boxing anyway?

There would undoubtedly be a crowd in the Gazette Office now,
he thought. It was out of his way, but he grinned at the idea of walking in and casually telling them to look at the coming champion of the
world. He could imagine their sarcastic replies. Then he would tell
them about his latest victory.

At the next car-stop he boarded a tram, and as he was noisily and
‘oughly transported towards the university he planned several remarks
that he would say when he walked into the office. To the Sports Editor
he would say, “Well, big-mouth, won’t you be surprised at what I’m
EQng to tell you.” ' They would not believe him, so he would get them
to telephone the Y. M. C, A. He jaughed quietly.

_ He got out of the tram-car at the stop in front of the campus
entrance, crossed the road, and strode briskly along the concrete walk
that led to the stately buildings. A student at the other end of the
walk approached on the same side as Jack. Pretending not to see the
approaching boy, Jack lowered his head, and with his hands thrust well
into his pockets he walked directly forward still moving his shoulder’s
with each step. The other fellow had better, cross over soon, Jack
tho , because he, Jack Adamson, was certainly not going to move
out of anyone's path. :

Jack kept his eyes on the walk and leaned forward slightly, and
at the last instant When he saw that the other student had walked
‘pdirectly towards him and that collision was unavoidable, he lunged
forward striking the other’s chest and knocking him backwards to the
concrete. The student’s head thumped on the walk and he lay still.

Immediately Jack heard the sound of rapidly approaching high heels
on the concrete walk, and a girl shouted, “You clumsy fool.”

“He asked for it,’ Jack retaliated.

The girl knelt beside the fallen student and felt for his pulse. “Don't
just stand there,” she ordered. “Get some help.”

When Jack returned with a medical student severa) minutes later,
a small group had formed around «he unconscious boy.

“Here comes Adamson now.” someone said angrily.

"You ought to be strung up,” another said.

ke he asked for it. - - -Why doesn't he watch where he’s going?"
Jack replied.

“Why doesn’t he watch where he’s going?” a girl sarcastically
repeated,

“Yeah, ~ += why doesn't he. watch where he's going?" another boy

 

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

Socialism - Democracy

Let me congratulate Mr. McKelvie on his admirable and very logical
article which appeared in a recent issue of the Gazette. The essential
point in his argument is that in a Democracy it is desirable that the
elected representatives of the people should contro] all, or at least as
many as possible of the functions of government, That contention is
unanswerable, in my opinion. However, 1 do agree with his* conclusion
that, as a result of the above we should return to the type of government

of the last century, viz: a Government performing only the essential.

services of an internal police force and national defence. Socialists, of
course, reject this type of state, and in this article I will try to answer
some of Mr. McKelvie’s criticisms of Socialism.

Today Government functions are on the Jncrease in all Democratic
countries, with the exception of those activities that were rendered
necessary by the*war. A glance at the recent estimates made by the
Minister of Finance will serve to convince everyone that the peacetime
functions of the Government today are far more extensive than those
common in the pre-war years. In Canada the Government has seen fit to
institute Unemployment Insurance, Baby Bonuses, Veterans’ Training
Allowances, Foreign Exchange Control and many other progressive
measures. Unfortunately perhaps, it is beyond the physical powers of the
245 members of the House of Commons to do little more than control the
policy of these various acts. The opposition is in a position to criticize in
detail, if it feels strongly enough about any particular Bill. A very good
example of this procedure is to be seen in the recent history of the
British Parliament

Now, if we admit that such social-seryice measures as are mentioned
above are desirable, (and I think that even Mr. MecKelvie would do so)
tlren it is absolutely inevitable that we have the so-called ‘bureaucrats’ to
administer them. These ‘bureaucrats’ are such people as Mr. Towers of
the Bank of Canada, Mr. Gordon of the Prices Board, Mr. Symington of
the T. C. A. and at the other end of the scale, your postman and your
local C. B. C. announcer. Socialists i nCanada do not believe that the
present government has gone nearly far enough to the left, although the
C. C. F. party has pushed Mr. King and his cohorts much farther in that
direction than a great many of his more wealthy and more traditional
party members would like to see. Mr. Power's recent appeal for a return
to the Liberalism of a past age is a reflection of this attitude.

The C. C. F. looks for public ownership of:

1) the primary means of production,

2) monopolies, both natural and unnatural, and

3) for an extension of social legislation, suck as Old Age Pensions, etc.

By natural monopolies I mean such businesses as the N. S. Light and
Power Company, while under the head of unnatural monopolies would
come such large monopolistic enterprises as Dosco and the International
Nickel Co. This involves Boards and Commissions as well as Crown
Corporations which are, of course, ultimately responsible to Parliament.

The above is very antithesis of what Mr. McKelvie advocates. It involves the practise of Democracy in the economic as well as the political
field. By this I mean that production will be for the benefit of the public
at large, and that the consumer as well as the Aabourer will share in the
profits of enterprise. Capitalists rather distrust Democracy insofar as
they fight against any attempt to introduce it economically,

The problem of ‘bureaucracy’ is a problem that faces all governments
today. Mr. McKelvie would have us abolish the Civil Service (which, of
course, constitutes the bureaucracy) so far as possible, and in daing so
he feels that we will return to Democracy. He says: ‘The solution lies in
correcting the mistakes of our present system without overburdening the
Government.” Possibly he forgets that the large increase in rovernnient
functions over the last twenty-five years has been for the purpose of
correcting the mistakes of the present system and has, to a certain extent, been sucessful. Through reforms in our public service, particularly
with the view to making the ‘bureaucrats’ realize that they are the
servants of the people rather than their masters, we feel that a better
society can be produced. The above is no reflection on the many Civil
Servants who at present are serving the country so unselfishly.

Capitalist Democracy has been responsible for many if the good
things that we have in our world .today. It is also answerable for a
host of the bad things, such as slum conditions and periodic devastating
depressions. Our cure for the evils, while retaining Democracy, is the
implementation of a planned Society which can in many ways cure the
evil heritage of Capitalism and at the same time retain much that is
good in it. The planning involves the aggrandizement of the expert;

g.: the architect, working to beautify a city and to eradicate slums;
with a ¢onsequent loss of authority of individual parliamentarians. However, progress will be slow, for we must retain the element of Democra™c
discussion, rather than be ruled by a small minority of ‘bureaucrats,’ as
Mr. MeKelvie points ont. This means tha more interest must be and will
be taken in the affairs of the country by all of us, because ‘as the government functions increase, people become affected more and more by
the actions of that government. Let those functions increase, but let
us be at the same time always on our guard that, within what the
majority concedes to be the public interest, Democracy continues to
increase in strength for the benefit of all the people of this country.
In short, we fear the civil servant far less than we do the monopoly
capitalist, for the former is far more easily controlled and far less
dangerous than the latter.

GORDON BLACK.

—V—_—X—X—X—_—__————— rr

“If you had an ounce of brains, Adamson,” the girl said, “you would
have noticed that he’s blind.”

Minutes later Jack Adamson walked away from the campus, but he
was a different man from the one who had so prondly entered. His
shoulders slumped forward and his sorrowful gaze scarcely lifted from
the sidewalk. He strolled aimlessly, grateful that the blind boy had
recovered, but ashamed to go home, ashamed to be seen, ashamed.

Friday, March 14, 1947

Fader's Drug Stores

29 COBURG ROAD

135 HOLLIS STREET
Halifax Nova Scotia

 

The Editorial Policy of every
good newspaper judges every
bit of news copy impartially.
It endeavors to present both
sides of a question in an intelligent, brief and concise manner. Keep “on the Beam” by
reading your Daily. Newspaper
. every day. Read

THE HALIFAX HERALD
and

THE HALIFAX MATL
“Two of Canada’s Greatest

Over 85,000 Daily Circulation.
Read

—————— re

BIRKS DIAMONDS ARE
BRILLIANT!
It is often said that Birks
are more brilliant

 

SS OU
L

diamonds
but why should this be?

Birks experts grade their
own diamonds and select only
those whose color, purity and
cutting will insure extra brilliancy.

HENRY BIRKS & SONS
LIMITED

Registered Jeweller,
American Gem Society
Halifax, N. 8S.

 

Corsages

A “Colonial” Corsage de.
signed by ROSEDALE
speaks eloquent volumes
of tenderness and love.

 

38) MURERIES Limited ...
BARRINGTON /T- HALIFAX

 

Servicemen who have returned
to the University will find their
civilian Hfe, at ..

SHANE’S

MEN'S WEAR SHOP
112 Spring Garden Road

 

Whether sporting, collegiate or
‘social wear, they can he met from
our full lines of clothing.

 

 

SHANE’S
Shoe Store

HIGH GRADE
SHOES

Fitting A Specialty

397 Barrington Street

HALIFAX, N. S,
Phone 3-6010

 

 
 

”
|
|
¥
\
'
tn
| J
;
7

_ thinking that college spirit has come out of the doldrum.

Page Seven

...++ LOW BROW

. , 7

'

>

Swedish Situation Solved
C.U.P. Scooped

John Squire — Special to Gazette

Hardwijk, Holland, 10 Mar. ’47:—

In this small fishing village on the southern shores of the Zuider
Zee, at the request of your Dalhousie reporter, police to-day raided a
small war-time fort and brought to light the source of the mysterious
V-bombs which have been flying over and exploding in Sweden.

Readers will remember that in October of last year the"Gazette.

ever eager to track down news, sent a correspondent to Sweden to
discover what he could about the mysterious Swedish eruptions.

On arrival in Stockholm, the Gazette correspondent, John Squires,
visited the Canadian Embassy. He received permission to work on the
story, and after months of gruelling work (Oh that Swedish gruel)
and tiresome travel he finally solved the enigma of the post-war Vbombs. The story follows:— aS

There were only a few men involved in the chase which led to
the capture of the V-bomb bandits, but they were of prime importance.

First I must offer thanks to Iago Llewellyn Mylward. The little
Welsh coal-miner who put me on the right track when he said, “Laddie,
thee must go to ‘Olland, thou can’st trust the Dutchmen.”

Secondly I must mention the staunch Swede, Olaf Bergen, who
rowed me from Stockholm to Amsterdam.

The third man in the chain of people who led to the final tracking down of the bombers was Peter Van Zwolle, a bhurger of Amsterdam who, whilst on an eel-fishing expedition had heard several loud
explosions in the area of Hardewijk.

It was on this man’s advice that I proceeded to a small ammunition
dump seven Kilometres from Hardewijk and after‘a night on the cold
dikes returned to the village for police reserves.

After the fort had been surronunded, the mystery was solved.
The solution was evident even to the traditionally stolid Dutch police.
The fort had been a German V-Bomb dump and in it, besides the huge
bombs, we found six bewildered British Tommies who had been placed
on guard by a Lance Corporal 14 months before. They were merely
firing the bombs to aleviate. their boredom.

Eds. Note: The Gazette Correspondent has received a Gold “S”
from a grateful Swedish government.

Cathedral Comment

“Lord bless thy chosen in this place,

For here thou hast a chosen race”.
* a » . *

 

The smoke is clearing, the air is fresh, the beds are made again.
Munro Day has come and gone and with it ends the year’s activities at
Dal. Thus comes the time to pound out our last column, the time to
reminisce over the year’s experiences at Cathedral] Barracks.

Looking back on the past six months at Cathedral, one can’t help
At least
their was no shortage of it at the corner of Summer and College Street.
Although Cathedral men were primarily interested in their courses,
many of them found time, neverthless, for extra-curricular activities.
The student veterans from the “Shack” were well represented on the
Varisity and Interfaculty Football and Basketball squads, in the Dal
Orchestra, on D, K. S. V. A., on the executives of the various Societies,
in the Glee Club and many other functions too numerous to mentior

To touch briefly on the year’s many memories, who amongst us
will ever forget the Acadia. Invasion where Cathedral men first made
themselves known, the Mulgrave Dance, the Gazette Gambol, the sudden
calm before the storm of Christmas exams, the trips to the Polio Clinic,
Friday afternoons at Cathedral, and the many other good times?

On behalf of Cathedral residents we wish to thank Mrs. Merriat
and Mr. and Mrs. Bob Leadbetter of the residence staff for their kind
co-operation and friendliness throughout the college year.

As Cathedral’s student veterans start down the long last Mile on
the road to exams, We oncé again pass on Tennyson's Famous advice,
“Arise, go forth, and conquer as of old”.

The Aftermath .. . !

 

_ Greek

 

Report
To Our
Readers

Scouting around for some little
bits of information the other day
we came upon a few odds and
ends which may prove of interest
to those characters who are kind
enough to read these pages.

Those in the know are looking
forward to the inception of Canadian Rugby Football at Dalhousie
come next Autumn. Windy O'Neil!
and company &re hard at worl;
on a plan to introduce the Canadian Gridiron Game providing it
does not interfere with English
Rugby, the old stand-by which
many of us still enjoy. It has
been mooted that a league will
operate in the City this year,
composed of Saint Mary's College,
Navy, Dal, and a city team (probably called Saint Mary’s Grads).
Might be a choice idea for the old
Black and Gold to have a team in
a league which pays for itself.
There’s no shortage of players
on the Dal campus.

 

 

The Maritinye inter-collegiate
wrestling championships
have been abandoned. No mythical
Greeks this year.

Editor of the Gazette suggests
that those who have hppes of
entering their second and com
.paratively easier year' next fall

should try their hand at writing
for the Gazette. If you're coming
back to Dal next year, why not
drop into the office and have your
name put on next year’s roster.

Institute of Public Opinion reports that there is a great Lig
cheer due to the interfaculty
sports gentlemen who have made
such a, thumping success of the
ordinary guy's athletics. Hockey

and Backetball reached their peak

this year. John MacCormack,
physical director, might take heed
of a mere zephyr which reached
this writer’s ear the other day,
“Why not an inter-faculty floor
hockey league?’ Goes over pretty
well up-country, John.

  
   

Ens

 

One From Dal To Europe
_ This Summer For ISS

Elections to the National Committee of the International Student
Service will be held sometime before April 15, and it is planned that
elections for the loca? committees will provide complete slates of officers
in order that I. S. S. activities will commence in Canada before the
year is half over.

The National Organization will undergo the rigors of the auditors
during the last week in April, ahd an audited statement from the Dalhousie committee on the results of the recent campaign will be filed by
April 15.

I. S, S. like UNO is beginning to realize the complexities and difficulties involved in completing Internationa! arrangements. At present
there will be at least one representative from Dalhousie in Europe this
summer The problem of ocean travel is the responsibility of the individual student, though the committee will attempt to provide three
quarters of the total expenses,

Selection of representatives will be by a committee composed of
members of the local ISS committee and the Students’ Council. =
guide to selection, the National Conference drew up a series of resolu
(Continued on Page 8)

 

  
  
  
   
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   

TIES

TIES!

A grand array of patterns
and colours featured in our
Menis Wear Department on
the Main Floor! . . . Stripes,

figured patterns, novelty
effects, etc. Each $1.00 to
3.50

   

&<T, MAR TO

TIMES

LIMITED

et
a

 

| I Sa By
Sa i
TAMA Ay _ ,

COCA-COLA LTD.
Halifax

 

iA)
I
if Fi
~ Coke =CocaCola
“Coca-Cola” and its abbreviation “Coke”
are the registered trade marks which
product

distinguish the of Coca-Cola Led.

 

 
    
   
   
 
  
   

cy Mt INE

bys

ea.

 
    
     
 

=

7:

=
4

aye

=

Lay &

ee a, ee

«. +
——
a} AP

*
.—_

2
nat

*
‘

Ph
|
i,
a
|

»*
4

 

4) Otherwise known as Ok!
_ head!

RO. DAY CROWD
a = ae from page 1)

hs ao) The Glee Club then took

Ses presenting an hour and a
half of variety show, featuring
(Mammy) Feron and the
ledical Society, assisted by the

NS P. C. A. At the conclusion of
a

| a “Connolly Shield, the MucDorald

this show the. presentation of the
Oratorical Award, the Pan Hell
“enic. Award, the Marjorie Leonard
» Award, and the “Maleom Honor

S Ae a Udy

HA

took place,.followed by
the ing of the Campus
“Queen (8)

The evening ended with danc
| ing, and in the smal! hours of the

“mornitig weary Dalhousians drage
ed themselves home, nursing sore

feet (9), thinking of classes com
ing so soon in the morning, and

Yemembering sadly that the Home

Stretch is now [beginning, and

Exam Season will soon be upon ve.
Footnotes:

My

2). Just in the nick of time. as
to speak.

8) The women decided it
dime somebody scored.

was

.4) These groups were so effect
Vive that seven men left immed
intely to get their haircuts.

5) Their harmony was so close it

was touching. "

&) Chosen especially ‘for their

taste, acumen and perspicacity,

and because they would not stand
up and block the view of others.
7) Also known as “WE the

People”

8) See THE GAZETTE for fur
Yher information.

9) ‘Et cetera.

POPE WINS AWARD

(Continued from page })
itor of the Gazette, receiving his
Gazette Gold D that spring, and

 

. Editor of the Students’ Directory.

 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  

During the year 1944-45, Bil
again played Jenior Hasketball,
was News Editer of the Gazette
for one term, Co-editor, of the
Year Book, Business Manager of
game, and Co-editor af the Diren:
tory.

The following year. he was a
ember of the Dalhousie Maritime
intercollegiate “Tennis Champion
Team, Editor-in-Chief, and Busimess Manager, of the Year Book,
and a dangerong man on the dadminton court.

This year, Bill is again Year
Book Editor. and is completing
hix term as Senior Male Repr:sentative from Arts & Science on
the Students Council. He has
capably acted as Chairman of the
Students Gym Committee, and as
a member of the Council Election
Committee. Having at some time
or other held every Badminton
title available, he this year chalked up his final age on the courts
by winning aa. Iniversity _Pingpong championships,

Having amassed much journal
istie, organizational, athletic, and
administrative experience, Bill

will next year continue in Divinity at Pine Hill, for which he has
prepared by spending two summers on Mission Fields in the
foothills of the Rockies.

Bill has given with kindness and
generosity of his time and enerzfex. Today Dalhousie salutes him,
in recognition of bis contribution,
‘with her highest tribute—the
Maleom Honour Award.

 

The University of Toronto defeated McGill 4-0 to annex the
Canadian Intercollegiate title.

EVANGELINE

TEA ROOM
Commonly known as JOE'S

280 Quinpoo! Road
HALIFAX, N. §.

 

 

to have things

;

LAW: CO:EDS FIGHT
(Continued from page 3)
this latest outburst was a dixdain
“Flint should know by now
that age must give way to youth.”
Later she added that she intended
to sue Babs Flint for slander in
the Moot Court which sits today.
“When I walked into the Women's
Union last Tuesday some of my
former friends whom I've known
ever since public school, ignored

e”’", she stated. “Flint will pay
for those insults.”

Miss Tengy originally planned
to take the case to public courts
but was persuaded by the president
of the Law Club to abide by the
decision of the Moot Court and
thus keep the whole affair contined to the University campns. It

Was Originally hoped that ‘the
unfortunate oeccurence’’ as ke

termed it, could be settled out of
court but both girls are determined
settled openly due to
the large amount of publicity the
incidents have already had.
Results of the trial are awaitel,

D. G. A. C.

(Continued from Page 5)
ns swelled to the gills with pride
to see various honors bestowed
upon zertain femmes in or midst.
The most outstanding were Gene
Machnum, our new Campus Queen,
Rene Fisher—winner of the Pan
Hellenic award for most outstand
ing Freshette of the year, and
Jocelyn Rogers winner of the
Marjory Leonard award for all

round and most helpful good sport

i the year. Not to be forgot'ea
are those who received their
cherished gold D’s, and last but
not least, the winners of the individual basketball and badminton
cups and spoons and major and
minor felt D’s.

We almost forgot a most important game—that which took
Place héetween the co-eds and
boys on Tuesday. Mighty nice
shooting there, Jeannie gal! We'll
show ‘em!

NOTICE

CATHEDRAL RESIDENCE

lf there is a sufficient demand
from approved students, the University proposes to apply to the
Department of Public Works for
# renewal of its present lease of
buildings on the “Cathedral’’
premises.

Conditions affecting ex-service
and civilian students will be found
in notices placed on the University boards.

Forms of application may be
obtained at the Office, Cathedral
Residence, or at Room 6, Men's
Residence, Studley.

Applications from present stu
dente should be made before

April 19th.

ie THE
CAMERA
SHOP

26 BLOWERS STREET
HALIFAX, N. S.

 

 

 

Dine at

The

Green Lantera
The Sign of a Geod
Meal.

 

 

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

One From Dal Fo Europe

(Continued from Page 7)

tions, here reproduced in part.

The student representatives must return to his University the following year; must have taken an active interest in student affairs, must
consider working on the local ISS committee, must submit a full report
on his activities and impressions of the country which he visited, and
must submit a complete medical report before leaving.

The Dalhousie local committee is now asking for applications from
students for the European trip. These must be in writing, and addressed to Lew Miller, Committee Chairman, c-o Dalhousie Gazette,

 

ISS CAMPAIGN

(Continued from Page 1)
pledged which will place the figufe well over the $1,300 mark.

Again I wish to point out that
this figure would not have been
reached without the splendid cooperation of the many students
who contributed time and money,
and the moral, monetary and
material support of the faculty.
Dalhousie is well up among the
leaders in I. S. S. support. We
may well beproud.

The Connolly Shield

(Continued from Page 5)
spoke of the purpose of Captain
Connolly in establishing the award.
He continued to say that the Delta
Gamma production was the play
which most closely approached
the required characteristics.

In speaking of the individual
members of the cast, Professor
Bennett highly praised the contribution: of Miss McKinnon to the
success of the production. The
Play was Philip Johnson's ‘‘Novelette.’”

CANADIAN CAMPUS

(Continued from Page 2)
continuous performance,

A fifteen minute discussion program is produced every Sunday by
the students of McMaster University under the sponsorship of the

Debating Society: There are two
active radio organizations at the
University of Western Ontario;

the Institute of Radio Engineers
(Student Branch)
Amateurs Club,

Acadia used to heve

and the Radio
but no programs
are produced

its own radio station, but it folded due to the lack of funds when
worn out equipment had to be re
placed. At Sir George Wilhams
College there is no student
organization, although there
several “hams” in the
graduate ‘body.

radio
are

7
under
STUDENTS MEET at
DIANA SWEETS
TEA ROOM
368 Spring Garden Road
Toasted Hot Dogs,
and Fountain Service

Lunches

 

 

Mulgrave Park Dance

DANCING FROM 9 p. m. to 1 a. m.

Place —

Mulgrave Park

Time — March 22nd.
DON WARNER’S ORCHESTRA

 

 
   
   
 

St. John

FAVORITES SINCE 1906

Moncton, N. B.

Quebec Montreal

  
 
 
 

 

Friday, March 14, 1947

WELSHMEN DROP
(Continued from Page 4)
Smith, Knickle and O'Neill while
the. homesters goal-getters were
Douglas, Robertson and Maclenn
an,

The Tigers were shorthanded fo
the game and dressed only ten
men exclusive of goal-tender
Timothy. Besides Robertson, Beer
and Macliennan* were outstanding for Prince of Wales, both
having two goals and am assist

each while “Robertson had fonr
goals and an assist. One of the
principal reasons for the Tiger's

lack of success Was the strong defence ‘thrown up by the locals.
For Dal, Churchill-Smith ‘and
Knickle each had two goals with
Churchill-Smith setting up three
others.

CO-EDS CLIP U. N. B.

(Continned from Page 5)
§-8.

Top scorer for Dal was Pat
Snuggs. who garnered 3 of her 4
points in the overtime sessiqn,
while Kinnie. of U.N.B, scores
4 for hér team.

Dal: F. Doane 2, Robinson
P. Snuges 4, M. O'Neill 3, B.
Petrie, L. Hayes, V. Leonard, E.
Cruiekshanks, S. Pentz.

U. N. B.: Harqueil 2, Kinnie 4
MacLagyan 2, Golding, Long
Pickard, Ritchie, Wylie, Bearisto

Movers.

 

VENUS

VELVET

PENCILS ARE

This means that
the lead is actually
bonded to the wood.
You can’t buy better
school pencils !

8S

 

WENUS PENCIL CO, LTD, TORONTO
