   

a

—

“ yA
‘wr
~

-~

: - " — i
ts

=
. ¥v

 

 

"h & 4 em, + be a ; .

é

CANADA’S
VOL. 6 |

FRIDAY, JANUARY 17, 1947

4
OLDEST STUDENT PUBLICATION

 

 

No, 11

 

 

OUNCIL MOVES TO

 

Occasion Instant . . .

 

a nnn Ys

tie Debision Difficult

MASS RADIOGRAPHY
FOR STUDENT HEALTH

Mass Radiography of Dalhousie Students as part of a city
wide Tuberculosis survey has begun. Already the majority of those
registered in the professional faculties have gone through the mill,
and next week examination of Studley Students will begin. Mass
Radiography differs radically from the usual fluroscopic examination
given in conjunction with the Students’ Health Service. As the most
pressing problem to be overcome is that of examining a large number
of students in as short a time as possible, the necessity of removing
the upper garments has been avoided, and all paper work has been
completed before the students are called, with the result that examinations can be made at a minimum of one a minute.

 

Organization Elaborate

An elaborate organization has been set up, and a careful schedule,
based on an alphabetical list of students, drawn. If this schedule
cannot be maintained, much time and effort will be wasted. Consequently, the only excuse for absence that will be acceptable will be
sickness.

At the same time as the radiography, students will be given a

patch tuberculin test, necessitating a return to the T. B. Hospital for
a reading. If the X-ray is satisfactory there will be no further notice.

If further investigation is desired, however, students will be notified
within four weeks.
Students calling for examination will use the outpatient entrance
on the West side of the Tuberculosis Hospital on Morris Street.
Students will be excused classes to attend the examination.

ae °

McCurdy Cup Play Revived

At a recent meeting of those
interested in the city badminton
league, it was decided to reorganize competition for the McCurdy
Cup, which was started in 1933,
but which was discontinued during
the war. Present were: President
C. W. Sperry, Prof. Mercer, Ann

 

no entries from the student body
of the university, Mr. MacCormack stated that the students
would be interested in fifty-fifey
representation with the Alumni.
After considerable discussion, it
was decided that Mr. MacCor‘ymack’s proposition would be

and Gladys Longard, Dal. Alumni;
G. R. Filliter, Peregine Army badminton club; Peggy Rundle, Dave
Churchill-Smith, Dalhousie. ;

The organization and history of
the league was presented to the
members present through the
reading of the minutes.

Mr. Sperry stated that the secretary, after many faithful years
of service, wished to retire Mr,
MacCormack, physical director of
Dalhousie University was elected
to the position.

Discussion next centred around
entrants for the league. The Army

' badminton club and Dal Alumni

both wished to enter teams. With

adopted. The Alumni would enter
the team, and Dal students would
be allowed to play for the club.

It was moved and adopted that
the 1946-47 series would consist
of four games to be played alternately on a time and time basis.

The months of February and
March were put aside for play. On
a flip of a coin it was decided that
the first game would be played at
Peregrine, Jan. 30, with the second match about a week later at
Dalhousie.

Players’ lists are to be prepared
in duplicate and a copy handed
to the Visiting team on arrival.

Should Govt.
Controls Be
Maintained

Tuesday evening found eighteen
eager Beavers gathered around
the table at the Murray homestead
keen to battle the topic of price
contrels.

Contrary to the opinion of
many, the partial lifting of c2ntrols has not relegated the subject
to the dead office file, but has in
reality been regenerated to chat
of a live issue. The truth of his
was clearly borne out in the battle
of the experts over the radio
forum, immediately preceding the
amater debates.

It was the opinion of the group
that the action of Canada in removing her controls as the supply
of commodities appreaches. demand, was the only possible solution in maintaining stability on
the economic front.

The Forum, on the other hand,
was of the opinion that wage and
salary controls should not be relaxed, while other controls are in
force. Divorce, it is feared would
result in the complete breakdown
of the system.

Since the public had very little
faith in the general cost of living
index, regional indices should be
established, to be used as a guide
in the computation of fair wage
scales for both labor and nianagement. ;

Let’s see more out next Tuesday for a lively discussion on:
“Hew can Canadian Radio Better
Serve the People of Canada?”

Ault Says
Civil Service
For Students

On Wednesday afternoon at
3.30 p.m. approximately 125 interested students gathered in the
Chemistry Theatre to hear something of the opportunities of a
career in the permanent civil service,

The first speaker, introduced
by Dr. L. Richter, was Dr. Ault,
director of appointments for the
permanent civil service. He stated
that the reason for their visits to
the various parts of Canada was
to acquaint the people with the
work of the service and more
especially to present to university
graduates, the opportunities that
exist for qualified personnel to
take up careers in the public service,

He stressed the point, in order

(Continued on page 8)

On behalf of the student
body of the University, the
staff of the GAZETTE. express their sympathy to Frances and Joan Jubien in their
recent bereavement.

_ = ——E — — ey = epee ai = ee rt ra S _— ge Fe
Lh eb tc eg TG EE a Rae AS dae Sie ie ame Med eae Po

eo = r

~

 

THIS WEEK...
@ PAGE 1 Student Council

PAGE 2 Editorial--Student Employment
PAGE 3 I. S. S. and Dalhousie

PAGE 4 Dalhousie vs. St. Andrews
PAGE 5 Dal. Defeats Truro

PAGE 6 Evicoms Reviewed

PAGE 7 Gould Beats Out Byrd

PAGE .8 Ads, Pads and Carry-over.

T OFFICES

FIRST MEETING OF NEW YEAR APPROVES
FINANCIAL REPORT, FORMS ISS COMMITTEE

At a meeting of the Student Council held in the Arts
building Wednesday evening, a plan to limit student offices at Dalhousie was approved and will now come before
a Student Forum for final ratification. The plan, as
drawn up would allot units for the various student offices,
and no one student would be permitted to hold offices
totalling more than 15 units. A scale of values was submitted and is as follows 15 units, Council President,
DAAC President, DGDS President, Gazette Editor; 10
units, Delta Gamma President, DGAC President, Sodales
President, Vice President DAAC, Secretary, Business.
Manager, Stage Manager of DGDS, Gazette Business
Manager, Gazette Sports, News, Features Editors, Gazette Proofreader, Secretary Treasurer of Engineers,
DDAC Secretary; 5 units, Ist, 2nd Council Vice Presidents and Council Executive, Chairman Gym -Committee, Vice President Glee Club, Secretary Treasurer of
Delta Gamma, DGAC or Sodales, President of SCM
and Newman Club, President, Secretary Treasurer of
various Faculty Societies, Rugby, Hockey, Basketball

Managers, Directory Editor, Photographer.
(Continued on Page 8)

Pian Summer
Jobs For Vets

“Based on the premise that God helps those who help themselves,
the Dal-King’s Student Veterans’ Association in early January, 1946,
formed the General Duties Committee to aet as an employment agency
for student veterans.” In ‘those few, well-chosen words, Colin H.
Smith, chairman of the General Duties Committee explained the beginnings of the committee which did such a fine job of securing employment for veterans last summer.

 

 

      

 

 

 

“You see”, Mr. Smith continued
“if these vets, most of them married, didn’t have gainful employment during the holidays, they
would have been forced to draw
on their savings or their gratuities. Obviously, that would be an
unfortunate state of a*fairs.”’

The chairman went on to explain that a circular was sent to
student veterans before the spring
exams in order to find what kind
of jobs were required and in what
numbers, Then a circular was
sent to the leaders of industry in.
the Maritimes asking them to
hetp returned veterans by providing jobs for them. %

The response from the firms:
and companies throughout the:
Maritime provinces was excellent..

 

COLIN SMITH

livery student veteran who applied for a job, got a job. ‘Iwo hundred
and twenty-five Dal-King’s student veterans received employment
directly or indirectly last summer through the activities of the General}:
Duties Committee.

“The fact that pleases me is that not one cent of cash was obkained by this committee in return for services rendered,’ said Mr.
Smith when interviewed on Monday afternoon. “The Genera] Duties
Committee is a strictly non-profit organization.’’

It will be good news for student veterans to hear that the committee will continue its activities this year. An honest effort is being made
to provide a job for every Dal-King’s student vet who applies,

“Of course,” Mr. Smith pointed out, “our success depends on the
employers throughout the Maritimes. We are hoping for a repetition of
last year’s pleasing response, Wal-King’s vets can be assured that every
effort will be made to provide them with remunerative positions this
summer.””

 

 

 
 

 

ar Ee ee A i hey a a
aa Ke i tt <P i ¢é me ae
Mi x ay ai — Wie. Ko
AS i
ual
: fe. mae pr Pe re
Say 4 ‘
ee
LID Frey ‘4 hd
LhA2 LLP;

CANADA'S OLDEST STUDENT PUBLICATION

Editor-in-Chief
AL LOMAS (3-4505)

Features Sports
JACK LUSHER DON HARRIS
iterary ; News Co-Ed Sports
5: MOREIRA LEW MILLER, P-3 FRAN DOANE
Photographer Proofreader Business Manager

RALPH MacDONALD DON HARRIS

   
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
   
     
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
    
  
   
 
 
 
  
  
   
   
  
 
  
   
  
  
  
   
   
  
  
    
  
   
 
 
  
   
  
  
  
   
 
 
 
  

: ‘REPORTERS AND CONTRIBUTORS THIS WEEK

il | Lovatt, Jack Lusher, Ann Duffy, Ralph MacDonald, Don Macachern, Ken Boite, Dave Jamieson, Windy O’Neill, Fran Doane, Bob
Grant, Marjorie Archibald.

Friday, January 17, 1947 No. 11

~ STUDENT EMPLOY MENT

Ay ae the Dalhousie University Calendar there appears thi sitem,
a “under the heading ‘Employment Bureau’:

 

“The: University Employment Bureau will endeavour to find
ig employment during vacations or permanently for students who
unin _ ‘register with the bureau.

7 Pao:
ae .

+The qualifications for recommendation to employers are:
ae inet Sound academic standard.

2. Good character.

eS ‘Statement from the professor or professors concerned.
fee The Burean invites communications from both students and embane ployers. i

ay y=)
yon At the bottom of the same page, in a footnote appears the followi . a “Discontinued for the duration.” Happily the ‘duration’ is now
, i over. | The period of re-construction has begun—but to the extent
fi of our knowledge, there has been no move to re-establish the Employyn ment Bureau.

---—--“ Last year, the General Duties Committee of the Dalhousie-Kings
: "Student Veterans Association was able, after much hard work and
_ eareful preparation, to find a job for each and every student vet who

_ applied for summer employment. Civilian students shifted for themselves. |

Ra At Queen’s University, Kingston, Ontario—to quote from the
University Calendar—‘An Employment Service has been in success° - ful operation for several years. . . administered by the secretary of
the General Alumni Association. . . financed by the Engineering
pes Society and the University. . . . to assist graduates in all faculties to
‘secure suitable positions, and to help students to obtain work during
_ _ the vacation periods,” Again this year the Service is very much in
_ operation, and a recent item in the Queen’s Journal indicates that applications for employment are being accepted now.

_ At Dalhousie, the basis for a new employment service has been
laid by the very commendable action of the D. K. 8S. V. A. Though
‘we understand this organization will again this year be using all its
available contacts, there will not always be a Vets Association on the
_ campus prepared to perform such a task. To many students, summer
_ jobs mean the difference between college and no college. To grad
_- - wates, employment suitable to the education they have amassed dur
ing four or five years spent in ‘contemplation of the Muse’ is the
justification of a University education.
_ There are three groups at Dalhousie which should entertain a
very real interest for the student in the matter of employment. We
refer to the University, the Alumni, and the Students’ Council. Since
a University is ostensibly founded for the benefit of those who will
enter its portals in search of Knowledge and Truth, would it not appear a very real manifestation of aid and co-operation to find employ‘ment which in turn would provide the wherewithall for further at
tendance and study? Nt One hears many words bandied about by members of the Alumni
_- vegarding ‘our glorious Alma Mater, loyalty to Old Dalhousie Ora et

Labora, etc.. etc. —-BUT how many are actually willing to engage in
_- mutual aid to the extent of enting summer work for those who are

a “Dalhousie—NOW?

The Students’ Council, more than any other group, is the guardjan of the interests of the students. Surely the Council could find it
_ within its means to help, even financially, any es to provide ‘jobs
for students’. ete
A ‘The lead already offered by the D. K. S. V. A. seems a well considered means of attracting the attention of employers. Form letters

are sent to each known employer who might hire students during the
bs _ vacation periods. Replies are filed, along with all particulars on the
_ type of work, location, wages, number needed ete. Prospective em_ ployees are informed, when work for which they have applied becomes
available.

Bh crt _ After yards of the familar crimson ribbon have been untangled

ars ate it would probably be too late for action this year. The GAZETTE
3 ue __ strongly urges, however, that consideration be given the matter, with
- the aim of eventually establishing an employment service (functional)
pa! Dalhousie.

‘The Veterans Asociation have an organization, proven in operation, with a large number of contacts. Wonld it not be possible for

‘University, the Alumni, or the Council to approach the Associaa work in opin with the eventual aim of assimilation of

 

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

EDITOR’S
MAILBOX

Mr. Editor:

Political groups have been
formed and do operate on out
campus at present. Interest along
these lines is offering youth an
opportunity to diseuss Canadian
affairs. But—are we not putting
the cart before the horse? Would it
not be better if we first studied
the elementary principles of democracy from a non-partisan point
of view, and attempted to learn
the basic facts, social and economic, about our country? Political
parties are merely a part of the
machinery of government. They
are the means for obtaining the

end of social progress and not

an end in themselves,

Many of our would be campus
politicos are not yet dry behind
the. ears in an understanding of
what makes the machinery tick
at Ottawa. How many of them,
for example, have ever looked at
Hansard?

Facts should come before theories, and theories should come before propoganda. These young
men would be better employed in
thoughtful, non-partisan, study of
the facts of Canadian social and
economic life, rather than echoing
the noisy and empty balleyhoo of
the professional vote gatherer.

C. HENDERSON SMITH.

N. S. Artists
Exhibit Work

By ANN DUFFY

“Great oaks from little acorns
grow” . and what may be the
beginning of a true Nova Scotian
Art collection is now on exhibit at
the provincial building. This is
the premiere showing of the first
travelling exhibition arranged for
by the Nova Scotia Department
of Edueation, together with the
Nova Seotia Society of Artists
and the Nova Scotia College of
Art.

The purpose of this travelling
exhibition is to bring to the inhabitants of this fair province pictorial descriptions of the scenic
beauty, for which this part of the
Maritimes is so well-known, The
interest shown by the “‘Bluenosers” in this collection of paintings
will, in a large part, determine
the success of this venture, and
consequently the number of similar showings to follow.

‘Thirty-seven artists are represented in this exhibition, which
was opened ‘fuesday evening by
A. W. Klieforth, United States
Consul General in Halifax. It has
been on exhibition in the Red
Chamber of the Province ,and upon termination of the exhibition,
the collection will be packet for
a province-wide tour.

Fader's Drug Stores

135 HOLLIS STREET
29 COBURG ROAD

Nova Scotia

 

Halifax

 

IN FINE WATCHES
IT’S CHALLENGER

Birks take particular pride in
presenting to Canadains the

Challenger Watch.

It’s accurate

It’s beautiful

It’s long-lasting
It’s not expensive

Canada’s Best Buy in
Watches

Henry Birks & Sons
Limited

Registered Jeweller,
American Gem Society
Halifax. N. S.

 

eT Te

 

 

Corsages

A “Colonial” Corsage de- Dine at
signed by ROSEDALE a |
speaks eloquent volumes Th

€

of tenderness and love.
Green Lantern

The Sign of a Geod
Meal.

 

38], NURSERIES Limited. .
BARRINGTON ST- HALHAX

 

 

“Heat Merchants Since 1835” ¥

5. Cunard and Company, Limited

HARD COAL * SOFT COAL
COKE * FUEL OIL
OIL BURNING EQUIPMENT

HALIFAX, N. S.

DARTMOUTH, N. S.

 

 

 

Say SCHWARTZ | |

and be sure!

It is now a good slogan in peace:

 

It was a good slogan in war.
“Say Schwartz and be Sure”. We urge it for your protection ‘
that you may be assured of the incomparable Schwartz quality

in Coffee, Spices, Peanut Butter, Jelly Powder, Baking Pow
der and Dried Fruit. | |

W.H. Schwartz & Sons Ltd.

Canada’s Oldest Coffee and Spice House |
Founded in Halifax in 1841

 

 

Dalhousie University

Halifax, Nowa Scotia

 

Largest Staff, Libraries and Laboratories in the Maritimes
The Faculty of Arts and Science

enjoys international distinction

 

Degrees of: Diplomas in:

Bachelor of Arts Engineerin

Bachelor of Science Education =

Bachelor of Commerce ‘Music a
Bachelor of Music, Pharmacy

Master of Arts

Hospi
Master of Science OSpi ital Pharmacy

Mining Geology
Pre-Professional Courses

- Honour and Advanced Courses in many departments
Slstdabia ites in the a a course about $210.00 a year :
e ourse average about
Many valuable scholarships, on entrance iy? Nec ae oo
Regional Scholarships awarded on the result of examinations held in
February in any Maritime school. Special $600.00 scholarships for Hon
our courses in Classics, Mathematics, Modern Languages and History.

The Professional Faculties
eer.

Law, Medicine, Dentistry, enjoy an unexcelled reputation,

 

. >
Residences
(Smee. a eee

Women students live in Shirreff Hall — one of t

Residences'in the Dominion. Residence is provided Ronee bho :

in the University Men’s Residence. Other men students live in either
of two affiliated institutions or in selected and approved homes.

eeecty accommodation is provided for married and single ex-service

students.

Meals for all students are available at the University.
For full information write to THE REGISTRAR.

> . nasi Sam —
    
  

4

ay

a

er

 

 
 

NEEDS ISS

(a ie ,  GACK LUSHER)

‘ogg Dalkenale many of us have known the ISS only as the ori)
‘ganization to which we are urged to sign over what remains of our
caution deposits every spring.”
This i is an extract from a letter dated 10th November, 1946 which
was sent by the President of the Dalhousie Students’ Council to the

Canadian Executive Council of the Internationa] Student Service....

The letter went on to explain that Dalhousians in general, ee.
cause of a dearth of information, were to say the least, not very enthusiastic about ISS,

| Further, the President, in his letter asked four pertinent questions
which are printed here for the reader’s information together with
answers found in an Information Bulletin of the ISS which was first
issued in. Geeehsrs 1946.
_ QUESTIONS ANSWERED

‘Ke WHAT. PERCENTAGE OF FUNDS RAISED ‘ACTUALLY
REACHES STUDENTS OVERSEAS?

In Canada, all money raised by University bi tabets is sent direct
_ ly to, or through, the international headquarters (Geneva) in accord
ance with the budget laid down by the Canadian Committee.

Bes WHAT PERCENTAGE OF FUNDS RAISED IS USED IN
ADMINISTRATION?
_ Administrative costs of ISS are very low. During the war they
did not rise above 3 percent. These expenditures are paid from a
fund established by friends in Canada. This year, with the expansion
of ISS activities to include an educational program and more adequate
publicity, ISS adminstrative costs are likely to be slightly higher.

3. ARE ISS ACCOUNTS AUDITED?
4. IF SO, BY WHOM?

Yes. The books of ISS are audited regularly by the Toronto firm
of Clarkson, Gordon, Dilworth and Nash. Copies of statements are
sent to the Registrar, War Charities Act, Ottawa, the Presidents of
Canadian Universities, local committees and other officmals. A printed
statement is made at the end of each year for distribution in the Universities.

The answers to these four hangtions were also included in a letter
to the President of the Students’ Council from the office of the Canadian Committee, ISS, dated 20 November, 1946.

Included in the letter of November 20 was the following statement which does a great deal to clarify the aims of ISS;

I. S.S. IMPARTIAL.

“International Student Service is a religiously impartial, politically neutral, student and professor organization with a History of international education and student relief dating back 20 years.”

_ The reader may well inquire as to the value of international education. The answer is contained in the following sentence from the
letter of Nov. 20th.

“Only through complete understanding on a student level can we
hope to come to further understanding politically, socially and economically.

I. S. S. IMPORTANT ;

The value of student relief must be apparent to all, hut there may
be some doubt as to the type of relief obtainable by Students. Everywhere in the world with the possible exception of North America, students have suffered untold hardships during the war years. In addition to these personal sufferings, their chances to gain an education
have been hampered by the destruction of universities and schools.
Perhaps those Dalhousie students who were in Caen will know what
happened to the University there. Books and money are being handed
over to these universities to help them to rebuild. Sick, weary students
are being rehabilitated in such institutions as the Rest Homes for Students in Combloux, France and Rocca Di Papa, near Rome.

STUDENT HEALTH PROGRAM

Tubercular students are cared for at the International University
Sanatorium at Leysin. Food is brough for under-nourished students all
over the world. Throughout Europe and Asia, hostels have been set up
to aid destitute students on the road to physical and mental health.

§. S. S. APPEAL TO DAL.

All that ISS asks of Dalhousie is that a local committee be set up
on the campus, composed of members of the student body, to assist in
the ISS efforts to raise money for the obviously important work detailed on this page. Surely in Dalhousie there must be one of those organizers that are present in ewery group? If there is such a person,
interested in the work of ISS, let him present himself at the Gazette
Office where a large amount of informative literature may be obtained.

“One world or no world.” Students throughout the world have
chosen to work for one world. They will have their failures and their
defeats. But in the end they will have their victory.

 

Law a Law - Debate

rh ¢ ,
. ‘
t
aa fi mos
i lf al jt j
: ys : «
i fy ¥ ‘
ee tet a Ms 4 5
= a
4
a £ iver
i :
a Ys
' ‘
Te a
7

Tn the first inter-faculty debate
since the Christmas vacation, last
Tuesday evening, two Law teams
clashed on the resolution “That

all remaining appeals from Can
adian Courts to the Judical Committee of the Privy Council
should be abolished.”

The victorious Law (1) team
comprising Clint Havey, Al Blakeney, and Bill Cox, upheld the

negative of the resolution. They
(eaaceenoet the Law (2)

 

Phil Arlett and Bob MacLennan.
Speakers for the affirmative asserted that Canada was an autonomous community, making her
own laws and that she should,
therefore, be also allowed to interpret her own laws. The negative team held that appeals to the
Privy Council were a privilege,
and that the advantages obtained by continued use of this privlege overeame any disadvantages.

Jndges were Mr. Cumming, Mr.
» Foster and Al Baccardax.

‘THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

CANADA’S

? a! k S a ae Ms ack’
Cay ere es tm >] ai
an eat ne ace reve
yar ua . *
oe Ug ota ee
ierer

OLDEST STUDENT

 

PUBLICATION

 

1947 1.0.D.E.
SCHOLAR

- David B. Roe of Halifax has
been named winner of the I. O.
D. E. Memorial Post-Graduate
Overseas Scholarship, and _ will
feave in May for England where
he -xill pursve advanced stud.es
in English for the rext three
years at London University.

Pave, now 'n his twenty-first
vear, is at vresent taking his
Mzster’s degree in Aris at King’s
coilege.

Valedictorian of the King’s
graduating class of 1946, he was

prominently connected during his

DAVID ROE

 

entire undergraduate life with debating, the Haliburton society
and with the student publication,
the RECORD. This intense irterest in student activities culminated in his senior year with
his appointment as Editor-in-Chief
of the RECORD. Climaxing this
most successful year was his
election as lifep resident of the
class of ’46.

New Political
Club Formed

January 14—Plans laid at a
meeting of Dalhousie Students
last December to found a political study group materialized today with a well-attended organizationa] meeting at which further
plans were made to hold regular
fortnightly meetings with the intention of studying economic and
political issues of importance tc
all Cahadians.

In an election of officers fo
the club, tentatively called the
Progressive Conservative Politieal Study Group, Rod Black, one
of the’ organizers, was
president; Janet MacKay, vice
president; and Don Black, secretary-treasurer.

The club, not formally affiliated
with any political party, appointed a Committee to draw up 2a
constitution to be placed before
the Students’ Council for sane:
tion as soon as it is agreed upon
by the members.

With the intention of obtaining speakers from all political
parties to address further meet
ings, the president anounced that
the next open meeting would be
held on January 28.

 

elected .

Christianity

The

 

Only Answer?

One of the most dynamic speakers in the church today is coming
tc Dalhousie next week to lead a University Christian Conference.
He is Dr. Bob McClure who during the war served in China as director

of the Friends Ambulance Unit.

He is well known across Canada

for the message he has to give and for his manner of giving it.

 

NEWMAN CLUB
GROWING

Another phase was reached in

the revival of the Newman
Club when, at Sunday’s meeting
in the Engineering Common Room,
a Constitution, prepared by Mark
Yeoman, was adopted. However,
before it can be taken as the last
word in law for the Club, this
Constitution must have the final
approval of the executive of the
Canadian Federation of Newman
Clubs of which body the Dal club
becomes a member.

The aims of the Newman Club
are to promote the spiritual, intellectual and social welfare of its
members; to act as a bond of
union among its members, and to
foster the general interest of the
university.

The Constitution also provides
that all Catholic Students at Dalhousie, graduate or undergraduate, are automatically members
of the Club, and all Catholic
students at Tech are eligible for
membership. It also approved
that any other interested student,
Catholic or non-Catholic, may
attend Club meetings, but will not
pay dues, vote or hold office.

In .addition to the president,
vice-president and secretary-treasurer, the executive will include
chairmen of three committees on
Spiritual, Intellectual and Social
activity. There will be two memmers from the combined faculties
of Arts, Science and Commerce,
one each from Law, Medicine,
Dentistry, Pharmacy, Engineers
and two from Tech.

At yesterday’s meeting it was
announced that a sleigh drive will
be held in the near future, and
plans are well advanced to hold
another Communion-breakfast.

The conference itself will run
from Thursday to Sunday, Jan.
23-26 inclusive, The introductory
meeting will be held in the Gym
at 12 noon on Thursday. The
Dal orchestra and chorus will-lead
the singing. The students of Q. E.
H. S. will be let out of school
early so they can come te hear
Dr. McClure at that time.

The main meetings will be held
Thursday evening at 8 p.m., Friday at 12 noon (for which classes

will be cancelled), and Saturday ~

afternoon at 2.30 p.m. At these
meetings Dr. McClure will spealk
on what Christianity has to say
to the world, to Canada, and to
you.

On Sunday there will be a communion service at St. David’s
Presbyterian church at 8.30 a.m.,
and a service of worship at St.
Andrew’s United church at 7.00
p.m. The Dal chorus will participate in the evening service.

The meetings are open to the
public so that everyone will have
a chance to hear Dr. McClure, It
is certainly an opportunity of
which everyone should take advantage.

CUP Conference
Held At Toronto

(TORONTO U. F. X.) Establishment of a more efficient wire
service to speed university wire
service between Canadian university newspapers was planned at.
the holiday conference of the
Canadian University Press, held
at Toronto.

Twenty-nine delegates representing the majority of university,
papers attended the conference
The Dalhousie GAZETTE was not
represented by order of the Students’ Council.

Plans were also made for the:

(Continued on Page 8)

 

NFCUS Assists Students

(TORONTO U. X. F.) — At
the first full post-war conference
the National Federation of Canadian University Students brought
representatives from sixteen universities and colleges from coast
to coast. Constitutional projects
to benefit all Canadian students
was the decided aim of all the
delegates. Dalhousie University
was not represented by order of
the Students’ Council.

The conference divided into
commissions under the headings of
Finanee and Organization, Student Services, Public Relations,
and Cultural Exchange, to draw
up plans for the coming year.

The conference:

Set up a panel on veterans
affairs to receive a report from
the National conference of Student Veterans.

Set up a standing committee to

investigate re-affiliation of the
Canadian University Press with
NFCUS.

Endorsed the work of the International Student Service and
advocated co-operation with it on:
the local, national and_ international levels,

Set up a standing committee
(Toronto) to investigate the
problem of exchange scholarships.
and to see that they are put on-a
working basis.

Advocated establishment of
student employment bureaus at

all universities where they do not
now exist.

Many other suggested reforms
helpful to university. students
were advocated and are being
acted upon by standing commit
tees at the universities represent
ed at the conferenee,

i
|

mo

 

== =

en
Se =

 

—

ee ott

- rer a

ee

+ ater pent arn teammate Tian pee et ae tate GA Ee

 
%5 Sede
sa

aot

. ri 7. = ce ry
— Gael Brena ile ah oa eke a on oa ag opt Bee cee Mites
=e , ‘ ~
4 a ai ; 7 ™ ew, Pa f

On The"

BY DON HARRIS

 

   
 
   
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
   
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
    
  
  
 
   
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
   
 
  

ETS ey TAR a. TSR

Vhs A WAR PA A A TAA

kere Red has: ek. cay Bite hockey ae are seriously considerig a request for special rates on the red lights used for indicating
at the Forum, since, at normal charges, the league may go into
red with so many goals being scored in every game. This issue is
ot ought to mind upon learning the score of the first intercollegiate
hoe’ key game this year, between St. Mary’s and Tech, when the former
n 12-9, a score bearing, unfortunately, a very close resemblance to
ores in the Big Four, where nothing happens unless at least 10
aS . als are scored, as many as oF on occasion.

repetition of this style of eat in sAbbeebiiaelate competition, although
eat indications seem to point to a continuation of high-scoring concS rant re

a (Asidef rom imposing unfair burdens upon the scorers, who are
r w required to have higher educational et, in order to

. 2 i is hata not the most desirable result, to our way of inking.
We can oe to the Gym to watch basketball, and prefer to see heckey on

BS. Bet as hope that the intercollegiate coaches will make some effort
Pi ee to keep the goals out of their own nets, aside from teaching their playRin to drive the pellet into the opponents mesh, by requiring, at least, a
5 minimum of defensive hockey, something unknown in our Maritime
Lay “senior games. Time alone will see the realization or shattering of these
oe fervent wishes. Let us join in prayer for a contest in eich the win
HOCKEY COACHING

5 After rolling up the impressive record of two appearances in eight
- practices, “Doggie’ Kuhn and the Dal hockey team have parted com‘pany, since Kuhn, preoccupied by his work with Truro Bearcats, seems
roll is _ to have forgotten Dal. The D.A.A.C. is very fortunate in having a per_--—s« son: of the calibre of Windy O’Neill to move in and fill the gap, and we
va sincerely hope that students in general and prospective players in particular, will help Windy by giving him their complete and wholehearted
a. co-operation. We know that many prospective pucksters find difficulty
ee it getting to practices, but the coach has little hope of icing a truly
representative squad unless those with ability make an effort to attend
these practice sessions regularly. Teamwork is a vital necessity and
, f cannot be achieved in one complete practice a week.
B _ The student body canregister their appreciation of Windy’s cfforts and the efforts of the Dal hockey representatives, by turning out
___ in large numbers for the Dal contests at the Arena on Friday evenings.

4 JUNIOR BASKETBALL

Last Wednesday, Dal’s six-man junior squad defeated St. Andrew’s

ren | juveniles at the Gym. There is no disgrace in playing this juvenile

a n _ squad, since they had earlier in the season swamped the outlaw junior
entry from Dal, but the game brought to light some interesting facts.

ey First, congratulations are in order to “Rug” Pritchard for a nice
re) _ job in refereeing in the contest, which in itself was a rather ragged
- Be affair. Secondly, congratulations are in order to Coach Ken Chisholm
ee for his efforts to encourage junior basketball. Thirdly, those six players
ek oH ‘who turned out deserve credit for coming out regularly for practices,
bs _ even though they have only prospects of a few exhibition games in the
e a “tear future.
ee a te That is where the congratulations end. It is a pretty disgraceful
aan state of affairs, when only six junior players can be scraped together
eo - out of a total enrollment of over 1450 male students, over 700 of whom
RS (Peel in the freshman class, I am certain that there are more than six
students under 20 years of age, who are capable of playing basketball,
ty Mee or are at least interested in learning, but mee seem reticent to show
‘their bashful faces.

i
ik

INTERFACULTY SPORT

This week’s issue of the GAZETTE is literally covered with interfaculty news, and this is only a forerunner of what is to come. It is
good to see such a tremendous burst of activity in this line of sport,
since it implies considerable student participation in these activities,
and it is to be hoped that everything will be done to encourage even
greater interest on the part of the student body, and greater participation as well.
im One way of encouraging more people to play basketball is to provide a basketball for them to use on the Gym floor, and funds should
be forthcoming for this purpose, since it is claimed that there are not
enough balls for both team practice and general use. Admittedly,
basketballs will get rough usage, as many already have, but surely this
> is not a deterrent to the purchase of new ones, when the number of
zi students using them is taken into consideration,

_-—- since it will be used whenever it arrives, and certainly the Council has
; Peat tr i sufficient funds to meet a need such as this. While the income of the
a ee ‘ ‘Student Council is at its highest peak, which is probably now, is the

4 eee mon or order equipment which is badly needed, but which has

eo
a
Sb lee
L a A a ;

a
a

  

Even if the equipment is not available now, it could be ordered,

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

 

reat sanIeey 17, 1947

 

1 Dal Juniors Post Victory

‘In First Start 40-32

Hockey Coach

“WINDY” O’NEILL
‘Windy’, christened Tom, was

born in Desseronto, Ont., which
was not his fault (he has been a
little reserved ever since) and then
grew up rapidly in order to attend St. Mike’s (he was already
marked for delivery to the Leafs).
On the way, Windy stopped off
long enough to play minor hockey
in Toronto, and then put in 3
years with St, Mike’s Majors,
making the jump to the Toronto
Maple Leafs in 1943-44 (when
they won the Stanley Cup) and
1944-45, playing on lines with
Ted Kennedy and Bob Davidson,
Jackie Hamilton and Jackie MacLean.

Dal’s new hockey maestro has
had some experience in coaching
minor hockey in Toronto, and is
an earnest student of the game,
as he has already proved, Windy
is also adept at scholastic studies,
and is now studying for his Bach
- elor of Arts degree at Dal.

10-Team Loop
In Interfac
Puck League

At the most recent meeting of
the interfactulty hockey league,
final plans wer drawn up for the
schedule, which will be released
shortly. The league will consist
of ten teams, with entries from
Law, Medicine, Dentistry, Arts &
Science, Commerce, Frosh, Engineers, Kings, Pine Hill and
Pharmacy.

The present plans call for two
games weekly at. the Arena, but
attempts are being made to secure
some time at the Forum.

Freshman students in Commerce and Pharmacy must give
first preference to their faculty if
they wish to play hockey in this
league, while Pine Hill’s team can
use all resident Dal students.

Boilermakers
-Victorious In
Hockey Game

Engineers got off to a good
start at the Arena last Friday
when they overpowered a fighting
Commerce team 7-3, to open the
1946-47 interfactulty hockey season.

Commerce got an éarly lead on
the Engineering representatives
when they countered soon after
play got under way, but the sliderule boys quickly found their
bearings and rapped home three
fast one and were never again

 

 

On Wednesday, Dal’s junior basketball. squad defeated a lighter

St. Andrew’s juvenile team 40-32 at the Pal Gym.

The game was an

exhibition contest and its only significance was in that the Dal juniors,
despite their victory, looked rather dismal against the Ralph Cooley
coached boys.

D.G.A.C.

By FRAN DOANE

 

We have a nice little victory to
start off our first column of the
year, and they say that’s a pretty
good sign of what lies ahead for
us, Here’s hoping. The victorious
squad was our own badminton
team; nice showing there, gals
(and guys). We'll expect to hear
more of the same from now on.

The swimming team is quietly
pushing ahead with their eyes on
that U.N.B. meet coming up. Mr.
Stein has been coaching them in
ornamental swimming as he believes this will help them in their
racing.

There hasn’t been much enthusiasm shown yet in that noble
sport, ping pong. Surely it’s not
because people don’t know how!
{Ed’s note: How to what?) Manager Joan Myrden is there every
Tuesday evening just dying for a
game. (Ed’s. note: Don’t push,
boys; just get in line). I wouldn’t
be a bit surprised if she’d even
give some lost soul a lesson or
two. Ping pong tournamerts will
be starting any day now, and
they count in the interclass competition.

All basketball fans can be seen
looking quite a bit happier now
that it has been announced that
Pat Flynn is to coach the Dal
teams (which haven’t been officially picked as yet.) Many
thanks to Mr. MacCormack, who
has been a great help in getting
basketball problems settled. Regular practices are now on Saturdays from 12.45 (you can come
earlier if you want to) until 2 p.
m. Mondays from 1:15 until 2:30,
and Tuesday evenings at 7 (and
we do mean sharp).

City league basketball games
start mext week, and as the schedtle stands now, the senior team
should be prepared to play the
Dal grads on Tuesday, Jan. 21, in
the Dal Gym from 7 to 8. Dal intermediates will be playing ¥.W.
C.A. on Thursday, Jan. 23, from
7 to 8 at the Y.W.C.A. Gym.
Kings will be playing the ¥-W.C.
A. on Monday, Jan. 20, from 7 to
8 at Dal. The complete schedule
will be printed next week.

We missed out on a column last
week, but we see friend “Windy”
was as alive as ever. We gather
he’s read Ogden Nash’s poem:

“Sure, deck your lower limbs in

pants,

Yours are the limbs, my sweet
ing.

You look divine: as

vance—

Have you. seen yourself re
treating?”

you ad
 

headed, controlling the play the
remainder of the game.
Marksmen for the Engineers
were Wade and LaMont with two
each, Flynn, Graves and Steeves
with one each. Knickle, Lyall and
Brown flashed the red light hbehind the Engineering guardian.

Lady of the house:
need none,”

Salesman: “How do you know?
I might be selling grammars,’

“IT don’t

SS ae ude oa wi

The first half was closely contested. Led by Mahon and Robertson, the St. Andrew’s squad picked
up an early lead. Dal, however,
with Creighton leading the way,
tied it up at the ten-minute mark
and thereafter the lead changed
hands several times with Dal out
front 15-14 at the whistle.

In the second half, St. Andrew’s
again started strongly to take a
25-18 lead at the 5-minute mark,
but Dal really began to click at
this point and without a reply
from St. Andrews, they rolled in
eight field goals and one foul shot
for 17 points. Leading 35-25, with
only four minutes to play, Dal
settled down to play a nice twoway game until the final whistle.

Creighton was by far the pick
of the Dal squad. Deadly under
the basket, he piled up 16 points.
Tanner also played a smart game,
lkcking especially good on long
shots. For St. Andrews, Mahon
and Robertson were the most impressive with the latter displaying
uneanny accurarcy in sinking long
shots from every angle.

Dal: Morrison 1, Creighton 16,
Palnik 7, Rogers 4, Tanner 8,
Knight 4.

St. Andrews: Found 4, Sherman, MacConnell, Robertson 13,
Mahon 12, Smith, Stairs, Beckett
2, Stevens 1, Ellis, Rogers.

Hoop Squad
Go To Mt. A.

Dal’s hoopsters will journey to
New Brunswick this week-end for
their first taste of intercollegiate
competition when they will play
the powerful Mount Allison
basketball team in an exhibition
encounter Saturday night at Sackville. This will be Dal’s first taste
of senior competition this year,
and should prove a real test of
strength for both squads; since
there is some likelihood of these
squads meeting in intercollegiate
play, if both win their sections.
Both teams are slight favorites te
take their sections.

Coach Chisholm will take nime
men with him for the game, and
may possibly add a tenth before
he leaves. Those making the trip
are guards Dunlop, Giffen and
Pritchard; centres E. Rogers, Levine; forwards Farquhar, Morrison, Kelly and Rosenfeld.

 

Driver, can you tell me if this
bus stops at the Lord Nelson?
“No, we put it in the garage
for the night.”
_—_—_—_————_————

Finest Quality
SPORTS EQUIPMENT

 

eS funneys Lynuled

456 Barrington St,

 

 

 

 
 

 

¢
ss

a

 

Friday, Janoary 17, 1047

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Page Five

 

DAL RACQUETEERS DEFEAT TRURO

Dal interfaculty

 

CAMPUS
ROUNDUP

By WINDY O’NEILL

By WINDY O’NEILL

It happened in a Spanish class.
The professor imported the Spanish edition of the Reader’s Digest,
so that the students can kill t-vo
purposes with one look-—learn
Spanish and read the famous magazine. One of the. shy, little coeds, strangely enough, had trouble
understanding the double meanings of one of those sly anecdotes
that grace the page at the end of
each article, so she asked the good
professor to translate it for her.
The anecdote was about a poor
domestic who became involved
with a marine and a soldier, and
quit her job because the family
had become too large. After the
translation was finished, there ensued a deathly silence, followed
by titters and guffaws from the
more worldly. Many of the
female students managed to blush
pxettily, jwhile those who have
not yet mastered this fine art,
were seen reaching for their rouge
or vigorously pinching their
cheeks. “I can’t guarantee the
sanctity of these stories,” eXplained the professor. We predict
that there will be a great improvement in the Spanish marks of the
younger co-eds.

The time for the presentation
of the silver, gold, etc. “D’s’” to
the many deserving undergrads, is
nearing. These prizes are given
to those who take part in campus
activities, and who merit points
according to their efforts. This
corner feels that there is one, in
the university, who is singularly
deserving. He has probably, if a
fair count were taken, amassed
more points than any student in
Dalhonsie’s history, and we think
a platinum “D” encrusted with
emeralds would be appropriate.
Don “Stinky” Morrison has appeared in every important university function this year. When the
Governor-General came, who
stepped up and snapped his picture, amid the cheers of the
throng?—Don. Who was in on
all the long runs in the great DalNavy game?—Stinky. Who made
all the successful old boys obediently line up for a shot (picture) ?
—-Morrison. Who stole the show
when he appeared in the middle of
the most important scene in
Twelfth Night?—Don “Stinky”
Morrison. All kidding aside, Don
has given freely of his time helping the Gazette and the school in
no small way, so he rates a real
vote of thanks.

A newly-graduated student of
the Dal Medical School, had just
completed his first operation,

‘which was on one of his chums.

As the patient came out of the
ether, the young doctor rushed
into the room and pulled down
the blinds.

“Why did you do that, Joe,”
inquired the patient.

“There’s a fire across the street
and I didn’t want you to think
that the operation wasn’t a success,” he announced happily.

 

The University Christian Conference is sponsored by the Canadian Council of Churches, Similar conferences have been held
at other Canadian universities

with much success.

BADMINTON TEAM ...

   
   

. AT TRURO

 

A representative team of Dalhousie students, under the leaderership of Physical Director John MacCormack, journeyed to ‘Truro
last Saturday for a meet with the Truro Badminton Club, which was
won by the ‘Gold and Black’ representatives by the narrow margin
of 10 matches to 8 for their opponents.

The Dal victory margin was fashioned in the mixed doubles contests, where Dal edged Truro 5-3, since Dal had captured the men’s
doubles 4-1, with Truro showing their superiority in the women’s
doubles by the same score in matches won, 4-1.

This active group of Dal students expect to play a = return
match with Truro in the near
future and negotiations are under
way for an exhibition home and
home series with Amherst. Of
interest to many will be the news
that the trips are financed by the
players themselves.

Men’s Doubles—Hamilton and
Cleveland (D) def. Cox and Spencer (T) 15-11, 15-10; Bauld and
Pope (D) def. Mahon and Boots
(T) 15-4, 16-6; Lewis and Jackson (T) def. Churchill-Smith and
Pope (D) 15-6, 15-11; Wilson
and MacCormack (D) def. Leaker
and Waldbauer (T) 15-11, 15-8;
Pope and MacCormack (D) def.
Barrass and Jackson (T) 15-5,
15-8.

Ladies Doubles—Sandelands &
Lamberton (T) def. Rogers and
Sederis 15-3, 15-4; Keddy alad
Lamberton (T) def. Fry and Bowers (D) 15-11, 12-15, 15-11; Keddy and Sandelands (T) def Rundle
and Bowers (D) 15-12, 8-15, 1511; Mosher and MacKay (T) def.
McKinnon and Castas (D) 15-5,
15-6; Shields and Spencer (D)

def. Piers and McCarthy (T) 15
11, 15-1.

Mixed Doubles—Rogers and
Hamilton (D) def. Sandelands and
Jackson (T) 15-3, 15-4; Boots
and Lamberton (T) def. Bauld

and Fry (D) 7-15, 15-11, 15-12;

Pope and Shields (D) def. Burbridge and Baker (T) 15-8, 15-9;
Lewis and Baker (T) _ def.
Churchill-Smith and Sederis (D)
15-12, 15-3; Bell and Castas (D)
def. Burbridge and Mosher (T)
8-15, 15-13, 15-10; Spencer and
Jackson (T) def. Spencer and
Bauld (D) 15-10, 4-15, 15-6; MeKinnon and Cleveland (D) def.
Mahon and McCabe (T) _ 15-4,
15-7; Rundle and Wilson (D) def.
Mellish and Waldbauer (T) 15-12,
5-15, 15-13.

The sign in the street-car said:
“Fine for spitting, $40.” So he
didn’t spit.

STUDENTS MEET at

DIANA SWEETS
TEA ROOM
368 Spring Garden Road
Toasted Hot Dogs, Lunches

and Fountain Service

 

eae ‘ Wee ye
SE ee ee = 6 48s . Fi as

 

Interfaculty
Basketball

Schedule

The most ambitious basketball
schedule in interfaculty history
has already gotten under way at
the Gym, under the direction of
Frank Rogers, with the able assistance of physical director John
MacCormack. The schedule calls
for an average of at least five
games a week, with contests being
played on Mondays, Tuesdays and
Thursdays at 5.45 and on Saturdays at 2.30 and 3.30 p.m.

In this way, each team will play
twice weekly until the end of
February, with the playoffs beginning in March. The top four
teams of the seven-team loop will
be eligible for the finals ‘with the
first and fourth teams, and the
second and third place squads
meeting in two-game, total-points
series. The winners of these series
will meet in a two-game, totalpoint series as well, with the final
match being played on Munro
Day.

The schedule of games for the
next week is as follows:

Sat. Jan. 18—
2:00—Arts & Sc. vs Frosh
—Commerce vs Meds
3:00—Dents vs Engineers
Mon. Jan. 20—
5:45—Law vs Frosh
Tues., Jan. 21—
5:45—Arts & Se. vs Meds
Thurs., Jan. 23—
5 :45—Engineers v Commerce

REFEREES
WANTED

A heavy program of interfaculty basketball has been drawn up,
with an average of 5 games being
played weekly. Any students interested in applying for the positions of referees in this leacue,
are asked to contact Frank Rogers, interfaculty basketball manager, at their earliest convenience.

 

 

Basketball Loop

On Monday, Law defeated a
less experienced Aris & Science
team 27 to 17. Played at the Dal
‘ym the match was a regula-iy
scheduled game of the interfaculty
baskethall league.

Off to a slow start, the highly
rated embryo lawyers had to come
from behind to defeat the scrappy
crew from Studley. They were
led by Hatfield, Hart and Churchill-Smith, whose main strategy
was basket-hanging.

Law: Hatfield 6, Hart 7, Smith
12, MacDonald, Roddam, Bell 2,
Hickman, “‘Foo’’ Grant, Matthews,
MacKelvie and Trites.

Arts & Science: MacKenzie 8,
Lee 4, Gillis, J. Harris 2, Rogers
3, Al Robertson.

Engineers 43; Frosh 24

Dal’s Engineers made their first

start in the interfaculty basketball league a successful one by
trimming the freshmen 43-24. The
game was closely contested in the
first half, but frosh, the defending champions, weakened in the
last half to allow the “‘boilermakers’’ to pile up a wide margin.

The Engineer’s victory was
sparked. by Don Rogers and Jim
Morrow who picked up 16 and
14 points respectively.

Frosh: Robertson 3, Lindsay 2,
Reade, Tanner, Saunders 4, Lohnes 6, Himmelman 3, Locke, Murphy 6, Lancaster.

Engineers: Bauld 4, MacWilliams 1, Morrow 14, Single 2, Rogers 16, Eisenberg, MacMillan 2,
Duff, MacLeod, Crouse 2.

 

Intercollegiate

Basketball
Schedule

Maritime intercollegiate
letics are rapidly moving into high
gear with hockey already under
way, and basketball scheduled to
commence towards the end of the
month, although all teams have
already seen action in exhibition
encounters. On these showings,
the quest for Maritime laurels
should be a very closely contested
struggle, with four Nova Scotia
squads in the race—Dal, St. F. X.,
Tech and Acadia.

The following schedule includes
all games with the exception of
the Dal-Tech matches, which will
be arranged at a later date.

Jan. 4£8—St. F. X. at Tech

Oxford Theatre

Mon.-Tues.-Wed.
“Do You Love Me”
with
Dick Haymes, Maureen O’Hara
Thurs.-Fri.-Sat.
“City For Conquest
with
James Cagney, Ann Sheridan

and
“RETURN OF RUSTY”

‘
arn.
avil

 

Jan. 25—Dal at St. F. X,
Feb. 8—Acadia at Dal
Feb. 15—Tech at St. F. X.
Feb. 20—St. F, KX. at Acadia
Feb. 26—St. F. X. at Dal
Mar. 1—Dal at Acadia
Mar. 5—Acadia at tS. F, X,

 

SKATING SESSIONS

Skating sessions for Dalhousie will begin
MONDAY NIGHT
at the Arena.

Admission will be by
Council Card.

 

 

CASINO

AN ODEON THEATRE

 

SIX DAYS—Starting
Saturday, Jan. 18

‘N otorious
Gentleman’

with REX HARRISON

(Star of “Anna and the
King of Siam’’)

PLUS TAX
OR TAXES

Se aL.
FASTEST: SELLING
_ CIGARETTE TOBACCO

 

<TC
- ay

 
lal

wert az
A) Bey,
.
ys
Ar)
4
iat
| test
at
Vos

le
ee
el
A
Ul

ty
nt
ie
Res

A

iD

:

\"

: + ‘

— .
\ e
ie!

oe Ps
my i
a
I <
ae

oe

i
SLE

lo
i

 

 

  

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

ia RAR Yo

 

Friday, January 17, 1947

 

Glee Club’s

“FE vicoms

By TONY BIDWELL

Apparently the public is, to resort te an old proverb, “twice shy.”
That the Dalhousie Evicoms was not as successful as it should, and
eould have been was quite apparent; and there is a good reason for its

failure.

The fault lies, not with the Glee Club, which had worked

wonders under the circumstances, but with the Student Bordy. Surely
among the more than 1500 students at Dalhousie there is considerable
talent hidden away—enough to enable the Glee Club to do better than
it has. All praises are due to those who did contribute, but why are
there no more? This is not good enough for Dalhousie.

A glaring example of the apathetic attitude of .Dalhousians toward their organizations. is the
Concert Orchestra. Frank. Padmore and. the. members of the
erchestra {deserve unreserved
eredit for the work that they have
done. Starting frof scratch,
many members learning their in
struments for the first time, they
have made truly remarkable progress. However, theré is still a
serious shortage of players; ‘the
violin section in particular is
weak. Most of the few players
that have had the courage and
good heart to play are ‘as yet
afraid to play into their violins and
make a noise, so that they tend to
be drowned in the brass and wood
wind sections. As it happened, the
regular concert master was not
present for the concert, but his
place was ably filled by Frances
Saulnier, who, although rather uncertain in her solo numbers, did
a very fine job of leading the or
ehestra, and who is to be highly
commended for her perseverance
and hard work in helping Mr. Padmore in his difficult task. With
help from the student body the
orchestra can and wil become a
first class organization.

The concert. Orchestra played
four selections, of which the Russjan melody, Two Guitars and The
Pilgrims’ Chorus from Wagner’s
Tannhauser were the best. The
playing was more even on Saturday night, and the orchestra kept
together better.

The group that has made most
progress is the Chorus, ably and
vigorously directed by Geoffrey
Payzant. Their selections were
wel sung, particularly the difficult
In Praise of Neptune by Campien
and German, and Little David. The
first tenor seemed to be having
difficulties in Drink to Me Only,
and the ‘occasional full throated
roars that emanated from the bass
section were rather startling. The
chorus from Trial By Jury was a
little ragged at times, but showed
great promise.

Several solo vocal selections
were heard during the evening.
Very commendable was Eileen
Cantwell’s performance of Schumann’s Ich Grolle Nicht from the
song cycle, Dichterliebe. The rendition of One Fine Day from Pucci
jni’s Madame Butterfly was disappointing. Beryl Farmer’s voice
js much too querulous and small
for the almost Wagnerian roles of
Puccini. lacking the power needed
to put across that difficult music,
and she seemed to be having marked differences of opinion with her
accompanist. The performance of
“Ah, Je V’heux V’hivre” from
Gounod’e Romeo and Juliet and the
Bach-Gounod Erveh Merier” would
have been good had Jean Parker
allowed her quite pleasant voice
to escape, instead of confining it
within the limits of her teeth and
letting it escape only by way of
her nose. We were favoured with
a hearty rendition of Zucca’s
hacknied showpiece, I Love Life by
Theresa Monaghan.

Mary Lou Christie’s performance
of the first movement from
Mozart’s Sonta in A major was
clear but spiritless, being little
more than a sucession of notes.
The performance of the Turkish
March rondo from the same sonata

 

Van Allen and Liszt

 

was vedy muddy and thick.

The Dalhousie Dance Orchestra
was somehow able to slip in to
complete the evening’s assortment. They played Thornhill’s
(Snowfall, (appropiately enough,
for the Gym was icy), and then
proceeded to thaw us out with a
modern “adapation” of Massenet’s
Elegve. Indubitably this orchestra
is a very fine one, and the music
that they play is very danceable,
but they were definitely rather
more than out of place on a concert stage. The effect produced
for the audience, shivering on
hard, closely packed chairs in the
Gym, was ludicrous.

‘The program was brought to
a resounding close by a very fine
performance of Liszt’s Spanish
Rhapsody by Neil Van Allen, who
played very well in spite of the
difficulties of a frigid Gym and

~ a miserable excuse for a piano.

It seems a pity that Dalhousie,
or Halifax, for that matter, cannot afford a decent piano for its
visiting and local artists. The
abomination that was used in the
Gym is a serious handicap to the
performers, since it is far too
small to fill the Gym properly, or
to give fullness and tone to the
music played on it. It was not
even in tune for the performance
on Friday night. Even if Dalhousians do not rate a_ tured
piano, it is a direct insult to an
artist to ask him to play on it.
It is certainly time that a good
Piano was produced, and used.

The general effect was not
good, since it was not Dalhousie’s
best effort, and until more college-spirited Dalhousians lend a
helping hand to the development
of the various projects offered
them, and until they learn to take
seriously that which is offered to
them seriously, Dalhousie will
never be able to make a gond
showing.

 

—

EVANGELINE
TEA ROOM

Commonly known as JOE’S
220 Quinpool Road
HALIFAX, N. S.

 

 

Silent

Night

The new man—he had been with the unit only two days—licked

his dry lips and listened.

In quiet undertones intérspersed with long

drags on a cork-tipped English cigarette a young lieutenant from Vancouver was explaining to the assembled NCO’s and men the plan for

that night’s operation.
of his Corporal on him.
cheeks.

The reinforcement stirred as he felt the eyes
Perspiration stood out on his forehead and
He was aware that he was an outsider to these men—they

were not trusting him and yet knew that in the night’s happenings his

actions could well spell their doom.
to replace a hardened veteran of five weeks’ experience in action.

He had been sent to their section
The

fact that he had reverted from the rank of Sergeant to get into the

war meant nothing to them.
ity, to handle the Bren.

All that held their interest was his abilNot just anyone could do that, they said. It

took guts. they murmured as they whispered to each other and watched
him—Only the Corporal and Lance Corporal were listening to the young

lieutenant.

The officer got up from his
seat on a COMPO box and walked across the floor of the barn to
where a map was pinned on the
side of a wagon. On the map,
marked ‘Nijmegen 6SW”’ the
officer pointed out the locations
of the night’s activities. “You
pass through the Chaud’s here’”’
he said, stabbing at the map with
his finger, ‘‘you can get there in
the carrier but after that you’ll
have to walk and carry the mines
in relays.
here’ he said, indicating a spot
on the map which was perilously
close to the wiggly blue lines which
indicated the presence of German
positions.

The new man felt the undercurrent of donbt in the group as
interest revived in them at mention of the Bren gun. He knew
only too well that once they got
between the Chaudiere Regiment
and the Germans he was their
only defence from patrols. Busy
at their work of laying mines
they could easily be wiped out by
a fighting patrol before they realized that the Gerries were on
them. The reinforcement licked
his lips again and lit a cigarette.
Poor cigarettes, these Woodbines,
he thought.

In what seemed to him a very
short time they were bowling
alone the dark silent road. Most
of the men were drinking rum
from two large bottles that were
usually carried in the vehicle.
The new man wanted a drink.
Someone shoved the bottle at him
and said “Have a shot Bud, you'll
probably need it.” Eagarly he
tipped up the bottle and drank of
the strong fiery liquid. He felt
it burn as it slid down his throat
and settled as a2 warm lump in his
stomach. He would have liked to
take another drink but he wasn’t
yet familiar with the eode of
these strange, silent men who
made up part of Canada’s Third
Division. He passed the bottle
on and took a firmer grip on the
Bren.

Their pace slackened as they
approached a cluster of houses at
[, ‘SPpeor OM} JO UeSTISIEWUT 9}
wonder where they go’, he wondered. The carrier stopped. He
heard the Corporal’s voice, “turn
left here and drive up to the top
of the hill.” In a cold flat voice
the driver replied “End of the
line, Thompson, I ain’t driving
this hate-wagon up on no hill—
remember what happened last
time.” “OK — OK”, said Thompson, the Corporal. Pointing to a
barn he indicated that the driver
should stay there for the night
with the carrier and raising his
voice he told the men to follow
him on foot.

They reached the top of the hill
and were challenged by a sentry
who was hidden in the doorway
of a dug-out. The neweomer felt
that he would like to get into a
nice safe dug-out but he kept on
walking with ‘the rest. Flares
occasionally lit up the valley as
they descended into it. Mortar

bombs burst in intermittent plop
Put the Bren down’

ping sounds. The rattle of a
German Spandau kept up an incessant barrage on his nerves—a
Vickers gun answered in evenlyspaced intervals. Haphazard bursts
of machine-gun fire passed over
their heads like groups of hell.
bent hornets. The reinforcement
shifted the weight of the Bren to
his other hand and recalled certain
words of the Charge of The Light
Brigade. “Into the valley of
death” he muttered to no one in
particular. Finally as they reach
ed the floor of the valley the
Corporal indicated that he was
to set up his Bren under a topsy
turvy haystack and keep his eyes
open.

The work of laying the minefield went on. Minutes ticked
away like hours. The cold seeped

THE
CAMERA
SHOP

26 BLOWERS STREET

 

HALIFAX, N. S.

Everything

Photographic

 

into his bones and the fear of
making a mistake crept into his
mind. Every shadow became a man
bent on destruction. Then he
saw something concrete. As a
flare lit up the snow-covered terrain he distinctly saw a group of
men dive to cover behind a bush.
Or was it imagination? The
Corporal appeared out of the
gloom as the flare died away.
“The job’s done—come on home”
he said. The new man swallowed
the lump in his throat and said
‘Wait!’ Instinctively the Corporal knew that something was wrong
and dove under the haystack.
“What’s up” he enquired? A flare
went up and the nervous soldier
pointed. There were the dark
forms, almost on top of them.
His instant reaction was. to fire
the Bren at them. He did.

Sound and fury washed over
him in great waves. Flashes of
light and violent explosions seemed to suround him. As he fired a
cool hand kept handing him fresh
magazines. Someone screamed and
the screams receded into a series
of gurgling moans which finally
ceased. All was quiet. Another
flare went up and he saw the dark
corpses in the snow. “Come on.
lets get out of here before they
start to drift the mortars in’,
said the Corporal. He picked up
his Bren and ran, following along
the line of an old fence. They
reached the safety of the sentry’s
dugout and stopped for a breath
(Continued on page 8)

 

DINE at
The Nova Scotian
Featured on SUNDAY

Delicious Luncheon, from 75c }
noon to 2.30 p.m.
and DINNER, from $1.00,
6.00 p.m. to 8.30 p.m.
With MUSIC by Oscar Welti

Trio.

* *

DANCING at
The Nova Scotian
every SATURDAY nicht

 

 
 

 

|
|

dO Friday, January 17, 1947

actress, from Hampton.

eu es : he ; *

> a
oz
athe
Bae

 

  

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Same Seven

  

Pope eA U RES

 

u Biary Of Samuel Peeps

Jan 5: To Mrs. Crisp’s where I sat late, and did give them a
great deal of wine. I drank til the daughter began to be very loving
to me and kind, and I fear she is not as good as she used to be.
ing the discourse I did hear most evil reports of Milady Lawton, the
It was reported to me in all sincerity that
she did dally in a most unladylike manner with a man in the King’s
service whilst on the Moncton stage coach. It was even reported that
she did nibble at the cur’s ears, and I fear that this infidelity will greatly sadden the heart of her swain in the town. Being further pursued
by Miss Crisp I did make my excuses and so home and to bed, alone,
as my wife was in a bad humor.

Jan 10: Stayed within my house, where standing at the door
Mrs. Diana did come by, whom I took into the house, upstairs, and
there did dally with her a great while, and found that, in Latin ‘‘Nulla
puella negat.” On her leaving I did go to the home of my good friend
Sweet where I was informed of a most grievous matter. In all truth

it would seem that the Ladies Noelle Barter (Of whom I have heard
mo good) and Renee Fisher did disgrace themselves by pursuing, and
' I fear, catching, two King’s men.

Over a bottle of Sack my friend
‘Thomas Sweet, brother of Joseph Sweet the famous Inn-keeper did
bore me greatly with tales of his exploits in the War and so, disgruntled by his high-sounding talk, I to home and bed.

Jan 15: With Luellin to the Gym Inn where we were very merry,
Luellin being drunk, and I being to defend the ladies from his kissing
them, I kissed them myself very often with a great deal of mirth. Saw
Mrs. Diana, whom I avoided, as I am afraid she wishes to tell me
something of our last meeting which I have no wish to hear. During
the day by keeping alert I did hear many things of note.

In the college on the hill it is a fact that many familiar persons
are leaving for other territories, due to a certain lack of knowledge in
the examinations before Christmas. I do feel mighty sad over all this
—the football teams will suffer I fear, Home, and did see many of
my wife’s latest purchases at which I was displeased, and so to bed.

CATHEDRAL :

Now that Gussie’s gone, seems tions, will also be the month of
that Hess Regan has been forcing the Med Banquet. Much of the
his attentions on that group of cost of the banquet will be abinnocent young-nurses who dwell sorbed by your society. Another
in our midst. We wonder if Hess informal dance to be held in the
was among the Serenaders last near future. ... not to mention
Friday night? According to “Le Grande Affairs’? on March 7.
George Pride they were not very
well appreciated—but then again,
neither were the members of the
‘Cathedral Quartette on Gazette
Gambol night.

 

Next week, two of Law’s debaters will journey to St. John for
the first big event of the season,
the annual debate with St. John
Law School. We wish them ali
the best of luck.

The last spark of life faded
out of the Med Journal at the
society meeting on January 10...
seems that medicine is a 24-houra-day course. However, we feel
that the Journal has a place in
the life of the society. . . next
year let’s do something about it.

By coincidence, last Friday evening Cathedral was also the scene
of a farewell party for that popular Cathedral character—Kel
Dunphy, who has been forced, on
doctor’s advice, to give up his
studies.

To those Cathedral men who
met obstacles on the road to

Dur- .

Knowledge during the past exams,
and to “Fuzz” (free-again) Foster, we humbly pass on Tenftyson’s famous advice—‘Arise, go
forth, and conquer as of old.”’

The local committee reports that
Dalhousie is getting a chance to
see what they can do with an
issue of the Camsi Journal. Lets
co-operate in this effort.

Friendly ©

“Coca-Cola” and its abbreviation “Coke”
are the registered trade marks which

distinguish the product of Crm ~ ”

 

ADMIRAL BYRD
‘MISSES BOAT

 

jrsounee

The first chore of the season
is to wish all the ciitizens of the

Drafting room a happy and firstful new year. With work recommenced, no suicides reported as
yet, and everybody looking to the
future the term is shaping up
quite satisfactorily. Athletic activity has come back, with the
first interfaculty hockey game resulting in an overwhelming victory for the Engineers. The game
was played before a wildly cheering throng of five fans, (three of
them Commercemen) who packed
a nine foot section of the boards.

Other athletics included interfac. basketball, Engineers opening the season with a win, and the
first Mech. 3 class, which was
held at Brightwood, and dealt
with an intensive study of the
coefficient of kinetic friction between snow and skis.

Some of the more conservative
citizens have been greatly distressed by the disgustingly large
imerease in romance around the
shack. Skimner has been going off
in his car with another Freshette,
Oakley has reached a peak of
romantic fervor, young Theakson
is learning to speak French the
hard way, the Gypsy is still trying, Saskin is reporting that “She
couldn’t speak a word of English,
but we understood each other
perfectly,”’ even Menchions and
Bauld have not cooled off. Everybody is so happy it makes vou
sick.

 

Seme of Law’s orators are now
beginning to oil up the tonsils for
the forth-coming Dal Law School
—Osgoode Hall debate to be held
at Dal in the next few weeks.
This verbal battle is a new innovation and should be of great
interest to debaters.

Dalhousie Student
To New North Pole

ate
**
e
se *
es ‘a
(| ay
Oo”. ee
*?* *
fe ee)

| pete ea Ee 5 |

 

i
ie ee) arn.
ee +
44-+

rer Los
oan me 7
° —--: ca i u ay
- : vryt i .
dar pints ess
~ ~~ 2S -.
=

~

* >

; ~
ye >

   

A ae

 

The colossal waters rear their heads above us like demons of the
deep. . . . All in the immediate vicinity of the ship is the blackness of
eternal night and a chaos of foamless water; but about a league on
either side of us may be seen, indistinctly and at intervals, stupendous
ramparts of ice, towering away into the desolate sky and looking like
the walls of the universe.

With this reference to Poe’s description of the South Pole in his
“Ms. Found in a Bottle’, a popular weekly news magazine has recently
heralded the departure of a United States task force to the Antartic.
Various others of the slick paper journals, and the press throughout
the world, have done much to publicize Rear Admiral Richard E. Byrd’s
Task Force 68, and its December trip to the sub-zero clime of Antarctica.

ONE-MAN EXPEDITION

But while the world listened with bated breath for the latest
news of this intrepid explorer and his staunch crew-men, an insignificant little expedition pulled out of the harbour at Halifax in Nova
Scotia, Canada’s most easterly province.

The leader, and sole member of this daring venture was Franklyn E. Gould, B. Se., post-graduate student at Dalhousie University.
noted mountain climber and career diplomat. . ..Mr. Gould is bound
for the North pole!

Interviewed by your Gazette correspondent, Mr. Gould expressed no fears of the Arctic temperatures. During his service in the
armed forces of the United States, he has travelled all over the world
and during®his stay in the Aleutians he has discovered that cold does
not affect him.

Sails In Flimsy Skiff

Mr. Gould was only too glad to show his means of transport to the
public. It was a life-boat from the ill-fated old schooner, the Marcus
Aurelius. When asked how he would propel his craft to the: far- distant polar regions, the daring explorer replied that it was his plan to
row there.

Strangest of all, Mr. Gould has only taken provisions for an cight
day journey. He expects to return to Halifax in time for the Millionaires. Ball which is to be held at the University on Friday, January
17th, 1947.

In expounding his theory that he could reach the North pole and
return to Halifax in something less than two weeks in a flimsy rowboat. Mr. Gould was quick to explain that the brains behind the great
Byrd expedition to the Antarctic had overlooked one obvious, yet important fact, which he had noted while engrossed in his studies.

Atomic Explosions Shift World Axis

“You see, the recent explosions of Atomic Bombs have shifted
the world’s axis. The North pole is closer than you think. I intend to
show the world that I, Franklyn E. Gould have located the new location of true North. I firmly believe that it is situated on a little
known island just off Cape Sambro.”

(Continued on page 8)

 
=i a — 7 als

   
  
 
  
  
 
   
  
  
 
  
 
 
  

AD DMIRAL BYRD 
5. exploration.
ess in his daring venture.

North Pole.

x

rende-vous with History.

gee gacerract? . We doubt it.

(Continued from page 1)

te this ane statement Mr. Gould has explained the reason for
Sf Another son of Dalhousie has displayed a great
a genius: and all the Student body have joined in wishing him every

“munching contentedly on a pea-nut butter sandwich.
of his lonely travail, does he for a moment feel that his calculations

% It has been anounced that a large group of Scientists, philatelists,
Yo | bibuoptiles, philanthropists and pan-handlers will meet him at the
North West Arm Rowing Club wharf on his return from the New
Will he succeed in placing the Canadian flag on the
porters tip of the world? That is a question for the fates to answer.
Daring Explorer Scorns Doubters

ae Meanwhile, as we offer conjectures as to his success, somewhere
on the cold Atlantic Franklyn E. Gould rows steadfastly on to his
While we discuss his sanity he is probably

In the silence

 

  
   
  
  
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
   
 
 
  
   
  
   
  
    
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  

pe. ‘OBERALS
a er The third political club to make
eee appearance on the campus this
year was forfned over the Christa s holidays. The club’s name
will be Canadian University Liberal Asscciation of Dalhousie, or
ts: shortened to C.U.L.A.

At its first erganization meetie ing the following officers were
elected: Chairman George S.
_ Hawkins of Milford Station, N.
_ §., Vice-chairman Gerald M. Harquail of Halifax, and Secretary M.
ae Arthur Mears also of Halifax, all

rs members o fthe Law faculty.
_ Full details of C.U.L.A.’s pur_ poses and plans will be in next
-  week’s GAZETTE.

CORRECTION

under the heading Book Club
Busy should have stated that the
Dalhousie Book Club was originally founded so that the student
body could have access to the beta ter books. In addition to this
_-—-—s there is the Halifax Public LibraDr. Bob MeClure will make a
15 minute radio broadcast preliminary to the University Christian Conference, on Wednesday,
January 22, at 8.15 p. m. over
CHNS.

 

‘The: Editorial Policy of every
good newspaper judges every
bit of news copy impartially.
It endeavors to present both
sides of a question in an intelligent, brief and concise manner. Keep “on the Beam” by
| reading your Daily Newspaper
J --+. every day. Read

THE HALIFAX HERALD
and
TME MALIFAX MAT

“Two of Canada’s Greate
Newspapers”

Over 85,000 Daily Circulation.
’ Read

 

Halifax St. John

A story in last week’s GAZETTE»

JOKES

This one was coined at the time
of coffee in the gym store. It betrays a great capacity for absorbing the culture which the
university has to offer an Artsman.

“The wolf is at the door at last

(My debts and dues are mount
ing fast),
’ With trembling heart and muttering,

Good-bye, good-bye to every
thing!’’
* * * ¥

Jack walks home from lectures
every day. He’d like to take the
street-car home, but his mother
won’t let him keep it in the house.

* *£ * ®
This week’s short, short tale:
Sail
Gale
Pale
Rail. 
* * * *

 

SPORT SHORT

In a recent much-advertised
badminton tournament the challenging team, consisting of one
Miss Bowers and one Miss Sederis
were soundly trounced by a delegation from the Engineering department (!).

WATCH
THIS
SPACE
SOMEONE
MAY
CONTRIBUTE
NEXT
WEEK

 

 

FAVORITES SINCE 1906
Moncton, N. B.

Quebec Montreal

ied DSS TO
‘ ‘ f
+ ie : a \ *e
ou) Bas! iy + rea
ee ot tae ich yo
as wat ti. ‘ i fs rs

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

‘Council Moves

(Continued from page 1)

Other business saw general approval of financial requests made
DAAC President Dave Doig.
Money voted was broken down as
follows: Hockey taxi fare $60,
additional interfaculty hockey
hours at Forum $160, interfaculty
basketball referees $28, $30 for
squash equipment and $7.55 to
cover an accident to John MacCormack incurred on DAAC business. A request for $224 for badminton equipment was directed to
Professor Theakston and his field
account. A proposed basketball
trip to Mt. A. was approved and
the Council voted $77 for this
purpose. The report on the Montreal Tennis trip was read and approved.

The Council budget report was
read and approved. A surplus of
$2325 for the year was indicated.
This report, as made out Jan. 7
will be printed in the GAZETTE.
The Year Book budget report was
also given’and approved. The cost
of the book will be $6,637 as compared to $3,664.65 last year.

The nucleus of a committee to
bring an active I.S.S. organization
to Dal was appointed, consisting
of Messrs. Lomas, Lusher, Miller,
MacDonald, Yeomans, Livingston
and Misses Ruth Paterson and
Terry MacLean.

Other business dealt with a proposal to seat a Pharmacy member
on the council, approval of a suggestion to send Christmas cards
next Christmas, a vote of $100 to
the veterans to attend a conference, $25 to the Covettes for
banquet, taxi fare for girls on
the Council.

oe

Silent Night
(Continued from page 6)

er. They removed their helmets
and the Corporal said “well boy
you're allright. That was a cool
peace of work. What do your
friends call you? “Jim” repliec
the newcomer.

Then he heard it. Music. The
Gerries were broadcasting music
over their loudspeaker system
which was usually employed fo1
purposes of talking the boys into
surrender. What was that tune
they were playing? Why, its
“Silent Night”. They both looked

at their watches. Midnight. It
was Christmas day. The Corporal]
stuck out his hand— “Merry
Christmas, Jim.” They turned

and walked down the hill toward
the waiting carrier. “5, ler.”

Ault Says

(Continued from page 1)
to dispel false rumors, that there
existed no such thing as fixed appointments and that all competititions were on an open competitive
basis and, as far as possible, the
best man would fill the job.

There are three types of positions for which the civil service
commission is now seeking applicants, namely engineers, agricultural scientists and junior administrative assistants, all of which
require university training.

The next speaker, Mr. Cheney,
of the Department of Trade and
Commerce, outlined a career in
the foreign service field as trade
commissioners. He stated that this
was a very popular choice, in that
it lent itself to service abroad
and possible graduation to the
diplomatic corps.

The speakers were thanked by
Richter and students were given
an opportunity to get further information by personal interviews.

Wa

 

 

Men’s Felt Hats

Offered In A Good Selection at EATON’S

mart types for the younger fellows and hats of

more conservative types,

EATON’S!..

shades. EACH

&T.

EER a9

. There is a good selection of styles
in wool and fur felts and various seasonable
Licht: Mee en $4.75 TO $10.00

EATON’S Main Floor

EATON CO

(Me S

too, featured at

ww LIMITED

 

 

Sect is Fa eR RA TET

Friday, January 17, 1947

CUP Conference

(Continued from page 3)
establishment of a mail feature
service and a weekly series of

sports features depicting the
regional aspects of intercollegiate sports.

At the banquet concluding the
conference, Gillis Purcell, general
manager of the Canadian Press
and honorary president of CUP
announced that the Bracken
Trophy awarded annually to the
best university paper, had been
won by the University of Torontos THE VARSITY. Previous

winners of the award have been.

the McGill Daily and the Dalhousie GAZETTE.

ELLA NN; EL a mn 5A a,

Thomas Wallace
SONS & DAUGHTERS

t
Optometrists &Opticians

Y. M. C. A. BUILDING

    
   
 

wy

VELVET

PENCILS ARE

 

This means that
the lead is actually
bonded to the wood.
You can’t buy better
school pencils !

ss

 

VENUS PENCIL CO, LTD... TORONTO

 
