= — = : 7 _ — —— —_ — = b= > at
a x" 2 re ia ae " a! : a a eas

   
 
  

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE : Page One

LAST WORD!

- DEAR READER

To Our Readers

And now comes the time for retribution, retrogression, and reminiscence. In the hallowed gloom of
i Sou wAwT To the GAZETTE’S basement office,
aT gleam stray bits of copy paper move,

s and members of the staff who have
heen lost since November emerge.

Frankly, we think its been a
heck of a good year for the GAZETTE. We've had the largest
staff for a long time, and we've
put out the largest paper for a
long time. Sometimes we've made
mistakes — but we’ve made them
thinking we were on the fight track.

It’s heen good — this working
towether. Each one of us has learned a little more—has made a few
more friends. You, dear reader,
have jumped on us, very often with
cause, for our slips, and that has
draiwn us together, and made what
you are pleased to eall the GAZETTE clique.

We have enjoved publishing the
GAZETTE. . We hone you have
enioyed reading it. If you didn’t
enjoy it—well — dear reader, at
this point we say, “Nuts to You!”

       

 

 

 
 

| YOU'LL ENJOY
SHOPPING AT

* Quality Merchandise

Large and Varied Selections

Fair Prices

 

Dependable Service
| HALIFAX * Pleasant Surroundings
lf : | * Satisfaction Assured

 

 
   
  
  

*

_ Matrimonial
Engineering

   
 

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Friday, March 21, 1947

 

r

 

 

Due to circumstances beyond our control at press

time this article had to be omitted. The Gazette hopes the

Engineers will understand that this is done only in keep
ing with the policy outlined in our first editorial which
stated — “Space and GOOD TASTE are the only limit
ations upon miaterial submitted.”

,

 

T.SOUNRE

 

‘This being the season of award:

_ F—Square sees fit at this time tc
announce the of the
various trophies awarded to En.
ginetring students. Among the
prizes: The Morgan Award-—Pre
sented to the student who show:
greatest proficiency in Profanity
1. %. Won by Hansen. The specia
prize in advanced profanity, :
seminar course held in conjunctior
with Mech. 3, won by Menchions
The Gilette Trophy for ablest us«
of razor blades on Drawing 1

winners

tracings, won by Angus. Mac
Donald.
Urpologistx Prize — Riggs. (no

. comment). /

’

Royal Order Of The Dark Horse—
Won by “Andy” Anderson, hon
orable mention to McKeigan, Pond
“Daniel Boon" Parsons.

>
.
qd

While shovelling orchids, a few
words of praise are in order fo
our interfac. basketball and hock

N ey teams. Shacksters are mighty

‘proud of the new Interfac. hoor
champs. It took a lot of fight fo
the boys to land that trophy. Con
gratulations alao to the hockey
team, runners up in that depart:
ment, It seems a tough break tha’
they were defeated by a team that
had beaten them only once in fou
games this season.

 

AUXILIARY
VIEWS

the wife of
My reasons were

And

an engineer.

so I became

romantic — but home-making i:
not just love making, and wha!
could be better than having a
husband and a handy man all
rolled into one wonderful male.

At times our engineering husband may become almost toc
critical. His wife must remember
that at all times, and in all places
slips must not show, seam must
be straight, not a hair may be ou!
of place, make-up must be perfect, and dresses must be of the
proper length. It seems peculiar
that at the same time the engineer husband likes to be considere?c
the rough and. ready outdoor type
Five o’clock shadow is usually
evident, plaid shirts and baggy
trousers are a habit, and hair may
be worn so long that you fear you
have married a musician.

To turn to the romantic, that
well known gleam fs always in his
eyes, long after the honeymoon i
over. An engineer thinks nothing
of blithely commencing to make
love to his wife while she is laboriously scrubbing pots and pans
With such an adaptable husband
where romance and Iipracticability walk hand in hand, there is
not a discouraging moment in the
life of an engineer’s wife.

 
 

AS!

NEERING

Brrrrrack! ! !

Cheers, Chow & Chatter

4

With this studied comment, delivered in stentorian tones, the average Engineer summed up his opinions of the annual banquet, held on

February 28th.
fine “do’’.

The great chamyfest started shortly after five o'clock in

As the comment would indicate, the banquet was a

the

afternoon when a great throng of Engineers gathered in the lobby
of the Lord Nelson, where they availed themselves of the hospitality
of the house in the form of pre-dinner cocktails, (fruit juice-straight)
after which the crowd retired in a restrained stampede to the ball room,

where the banquet awaited them.

 

—YOU MIGHT NOTE GENTLEMEN ,

»

a Lire ti
©

rn 7
(Sfeneqrd /teove

THAT THE NEXT PLATE HAS

ONLY A MATTER OF SOO PROBLEMS . WINCH YOU WILL HAVE In BY

THURSDAY ;

TO BE OONE IN YOVeE OWN TIME OF Course J!

THAT WUL Be TURNED IN AT THE END OF THE MIONIGHT TO
GAM PEROR. — NOW , FREAK OFF FOR 2 SECONOCS'’——

ScALG: 104¥ = 48 HOUEs
Plate Nt 1000! ; 2 many.

. The Chief

Thursday morning a man with a military bearing strode into the
Drawing 1 Class. Established behind the long low desk of room 23 he

checked the attendance, opened a heavy black note book,

“Centlemen, make a note of this.’
dictate. Each

sentence followed the other with uncanny spacing.

and said
Then in a clear voice, he began to

To

freshmen racing to record it, the pace seemed impossible but they were

never more than a few words behind and they rarely missed one.

The dictation continued for the
full hour, then as the bell sounded, he checked the time with his
watch, closed his black volume
and dismissed the class with
“That’s all Gentlemen.” Thus for
the past 20 years has Prof. “Harold
Raymond Theakston lectured on
the subject that to most freshmen
Engineers is virtually an initation
to their profession.

This man who heads the largest
professional faculty in Dalhousie
is a native of Halifax. He finished his High School training in this
city and then journeyed to Cape
Breton to work as a reporter on
the Sydney-Post Record. Tiring
of newspaper work he returned to
Halifax and registered for Engineering at Dalhousie. On graduation from Dal. Theskston joined the army and proceeded overseas with the 85th. Battery. On
his return from France in 1919,
Theakston left the army and returned to his Engineering ‘studies
at Nova Scotia Technical College.
In 1922 he received his Bachelor
of Seience (Mining) and won the

Governor General's | Medal for
scholastic achievement.
After graduation Theakston

worked in the great iron mines at
Wabana, and later joined a firm
of consulting Engineers in Boston.

In 1924 Theakston arrived at Dalhousie! 1947 finds Prof. Theakston

Head of the Department of Engineering, Engineer in charge of
Buildings and Grounds, Member

of the Dalhousie Senate, Member
of the Tech. Board of Governors,
Hon. President of the Class °47.,
and “Grand Patron" the Engineering Society.

of

 

ENGINEER FALLS
ON INHERITANCE

Herb Johnson, popular
year Engineer recently fell on an
unusual inheritance, a fine pigskin wallet, given him by a gréatgrandfather while lost in the wilds
of Newfoundland. The wallet
though old, is beautifully made
of hand-tooled leather, finely
handstitched. The wallet is be
lieved to be at least a hundred,
years old.

Mr. Johnson fell on his inheritance when he slipped on a piece
of ice in front of the Chem
theatre.

secone

tr

Beneath the hanging street-car
strap

The homely co-ed stands

And stands and stands and stand:

They were met by programs
bearing such pertinent data as the
menu, consisting of delicacies
such as oblate spheroid ejector,
harbor dredgings and lime hydrate.
Little phased by this, the group
proceeded to dig in with enjoyment. Midway. through the meal
a reminder by Secretary Bob Wade
that it was implicitly understood
that no spiritous beverages were
to be consumed brought an enthusiastic and spontaneous cheer
that would have gladened anyone
trying to prohibit anything.

Following the meal came toasts
and tales which were enjoyed by
all, the latter causing many appreciative Shacksters to vow to
pass in more and better work. The
speaker of the evening was R. B.
Hayes, President of the Engineering Institute of Canada, who
gave one of the shortest and best

after dinner talks on record.
Professor Theakston then  presented the Boh Walters Award to
Bob Wade, and the Banquet end
ed as usual, with the Engineer's
yell.

WADE WINS
WALTERS
AWARD

The Bob Walters Award, given
each year to the Engineer in the
graduating class who, in the opinion of his fellow students best exemplifies the ideal all round student was won this year by Bob
Wade, popular fourth year man.

 

 

BOB WADE

He has been very active in the
Engineering Society as well, holding positions of President and
Secretary.

Bob represented the Engineers
on the Student's Council for two
years, and spent a year on the
Executive of the D. A. A, C. He
also spent some time getting
through enough courses to earn a
B. Se., with his Engineering diploma.

Bob’s plans for N. S. Tech,
where he expects to complete his
training as a Mechanical Engineer, marriage, and a quiet, thoroughly uninteresting home life.

 
~

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
   
  
   
      
    
  

       
    

;

“Alarming reports from Lower Studley indicate that there is a
Red, possibly two Reds, in the vicinity of the Men's Residence. ... z

. BLURB despatch, Sunday Mar. 15.

Seabiscuit spent the last weekend on the Campus in an effort to
discover the source of Communist Activity which has been seen on the
Campus several times. He was ejected from a meeting in the Men's
Residence, byt took several snaps before he went, which are being held
as evidence. Living on the reactionary sandwiches purveyed at the
Gym Store, he wintered at the Gazette offices in the night, and proceed:
ed forth carefully. He met O'Toole, that paragon of philosophers, ruminating about the disgraceful condition of undergraduates; he had seen
no perils, red or otherwise.

“Lot of nonsense, this Communism business,” he snorted. “What
do undergraduates know about politics? Their underdeveloped brains
should be protected against such stuff. Have they read Hegel? Do they

 

understand dialectial materialism? Undergraduates, Sir, should. ...”

Seabiscuit slipped away, and was considerably heartened by the
sight of ome X, of the Gazette Clique, attempting to sneak off the
campus after dark. This was ndét long after the Council Gestapo had
clamped down on the Gazette’s attempted coup @etat, and X was indistinctly bad odour. By threatening to expose him to the Undergraduate Body (a thing which haunts most Campi) Seabiscuit elicited the information that there was a meeting of Subversive Elements
in Room 2. X left, throwing several bombs at the flagpole as he did
so, and Seabiscuit entered the Arts Building by a side entrance. Guarding the entrance to Room 2, their halberds gleaming in the murk,
were three of the McSharp Volksturm, lured from their eternal vigil
over the alcoves by heavy bribes. Flashing his Gold D. Seatiscuit was
allowed to’ enter the room, Inside were at least fifty subversive elements, and over the door hung a sign: “Beneath these portals pass the
damndest subversive elements in the country.”

The sign bore no idle boast; across the way he saw Prixie Hamilcar Barkoff smoking a large, subversive and offensive stogie, and arguing
with Muller of Belgrade, who was considered a Kautskyite renegade,
but admitted on the strength of his permit. There were others, ail
facing a raised dais, on which sat Chairman Schwartz, in full dress: his
breast glittered with Gold D's, indicating his long service with the Glum
Club’s Cossack Chorus, being Assistant Undertaker to the Audience
“for at least two and three-quarters shows.’ Other dignitaries also
bore much of the same burden in 10 carat:

The chairman rose, cleared his throat in the customary manner,
glanced at his customary Gold D’s, and opened his mouth. Seabisenit
thinks that he was going to say something, but at that moment something entered. It turned out to be some “Hall Girls’ (according to
authroitative information), who had lost one of their number in the
Bear Trap region surrounding the Hall. Several St. Bernards from
the 8S. C. M., were sent out and the meeting was resumed. The Chairman finally spoke.

jOur year has been a successful one,” he began. “We have lost
six comrades by way of duty; there will be three minutes’ silence in
their memory. (Three minutes silence) We have, by infiltration and
other means, obtained a total of thirty-six Gold D's; we are opening
a mint shortly.” .

The rest of the meeting was largely occupied by an address by one
of the leading agitators in the country. Describing the general state

_ of things in Russia, the speaker emphasized the desirability of bring
ing about the same genera} state of things here. Apparently there's
something in this general state of things. After that Seabiscuit decided that a visit to the Gazette office was in order; he accordingly
left, .

  
   

| fo"

My Friend Stone

 
  

 

In the village of Hatert, a small suburb of Nijmegen in Holland, there js a large cathedral. Behind it
there is an orchard, and in the orchard there are (or at least there were) five little shacks. Right in front
of one of these shacks there is a hole, the farmer's root cellar, eight or nine feet deep and traversed at a
depth of 5 feet by a stout pdle. On a cold and dark n'ght in December of 1944 I, together with a load of
gear, including blankets, big pack, small pack and haversack fell into this hole, straddled the pole, turned
over and ended up in a welter of web equipment, mud and icy water.
in blind rage, a flashlight beam picked me out,’ and a voice calculated to anger an insurance salesman said
“what are you doing down in the hole?” This was my first introduction to Fred Rocky” Stone.

sss

Finally I got settled in the hut
and as the weeks passed the animosity between Stone and I died.
But I waited my chance, and on
New Year’s Eve when I saw Stone
clamber out of his bunk and put
on his beots, inspiration came.
As the clock nudged twelve, Rocky
grabbed his rifle and with a wild
hoot dashed out into the night
in his long underwear to fire a
welcoming shot for the New Year.
He didn't make it. With an almighty roar he fell into the
treacherous hole. Johnny-on-thespot, I was there with the flashlight. I looked down at him in the
‘fsa and. choking back the laughter, I said “what are you doing
down in the hole?’’ —1I still bear
the mark where the bullet creased my forearm.

I shall never forget the time
we went on leave to England together. We went the usual round,
seeing shdws, pub-crawling, dancing at Covent Garden and the
Palais de Dance at Hammersmith
and generally helling around. One
night we had occasion to see a
movie in which there was a certain
element of horror. Throughout the
whole performance a dainty old
latly seated in front of us had displayed considerable agitation at
the more frightening scenes. As
the movie drew to a close, the
heroine was shown standing in a
dark and dreary basement—suddenly a huge pair of hands. came
out through a secret panel behind
her back and atarted to reach
the girl’s throat. The ,old
woman strained forward in her
seat. Suddenly Stone’s hands shot
out and gripped the poor old lady’s
neck. With an ear-piercing shriek
she leaped to her feet. Stone
and I were escorted to the exit
by an usher. As Stone afterwards
stated, “It wasn’t a good show anyway".

We made our way to the
“Queen’s Head” and after a few
rounds Stone got up to go to the
gentlemen's room. Imagining that
this pub was no different than the
others we had visited, Stone went
out the door and down the alley
baside the Inn and coming to a

 
 

ce

i)! '
ri

Ht

.

COCA-COLA LTD.
Halifax

 

door which he thought to be appropriate one, he opened it and
stepped in. He fell twenty feet
and broke both ankles. Heuring
his yell we followed a bobby down
the alley and came to a door in
the remaining wall of a bombed
out house. Stone had fallen into
the cellar. The policeman shone
his flashlight down on Stone and
said “I say, Canada, are
hurt?” In a strained voice Stone
replied “No, I’m just down here
gathering mushrooms”.

you

As I lay there, swearing and roaring

OF ALL PLACES

(From a story by Stanley Altman, in Swank).

When he was in Italy sométimes
George Armstrong would draw a

mental picture of that lake. He

could look straight down to the

bottom, and it was cool there and
a fine place to write.

(New Yorker comment: Wel]

fair place, perhaps.)

“

LaLa

“The purest form in which tobacco can be smoked”

 

BIRKS DIAMONDS ARE
BRILLIANT!

It is often said that Birks
diamonds are more brilliant
but why should this be?

Birks experts grade their
own diamonds and select only
those whose color, purity and
cutting will insure extra brilllancy.

HENRY BIRKS &
LIMITED

SONS

Registered Jeweller,
American Gem Society
Halifax, N. S.

 

“Coca-Cola” and its abbreviation “Coke”
are the registered trade marks which

product of Coca-Cola Led,

.

  

Homework

Fader's Drug Stores

29 COBURG ROAD

135 HOLLIS STREET
Halifax Nowa Scotia

oe ese et

SHANE’S
Shoe Store

HIGH GRADE
SHOES

Fitting A Specialty

397 Barrington Street

HALIFAX, N. S.
Phone 3-6010

 

 

  

 
 

   

 

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

—_

Friday, March 21, 1947

 

On The »
SIDELINES

BY DON HARRIS

   

S22 Sie .. oe er

oe

Due to circumstances and advertising beyond my control, this
column is, shall we say, limited (f think that means you can’t sue me,
I hope.) Well! Its been a long winter, but spring is near, the bird is én

the wing, or vice versa, ete., and whatnot.

To you, dear readers (sounds

like a song), who have patiently (7) undergone the trials and tribulations of an embryo sportswriter, I hand the torch. I hope it burns yours

hands off. .

CASINO

AN ODEON THEATRE

  

 

Starting Sat., Mar. 22nd
Dick Powell
and
Kvelyn Keyes

“Johnny
O’Clock”’

a” " = >

 

“Say Schwartz and be Sure”.

der and Dried Fruit.

=

Tati te

   
        
   
        

“Parting is such sweet sorrow”,
but so sweet for you and for me
(I can now try that ancient practice—studying), therefore I ‘‘will
fold my tent, like the Arabs, and
silently steal away”, Thanks for
listening! | !

30

 

EVANGELINE
TEA ROOM

Commonly known as JOE'S
280 Quinpool Road
. HALIFAX, N. S.

 

      
 
   
   
  
  

<0 4 Sq HWARTZ
ot

aa and be sure!

It was « good slogan in war. It is now a good slogan in peace:
We urge it for your protection
that you may be assured of the incomparable Schwartz quality
in Coffee, Spices, Peanut Butter, Jelly Powder; Baking Pow
W.-H. Schwartz & Sons Ltd.

Canada’s Oldest Coffee and Spice House
Founded in Halifax in 1841

a STD

Intercollegiate
Boxing Team
Strengthened

Dal’s boxing hopes were bolstered yesterday, with the announcement that they would be

represented by St. Michaels’ Last
Hope, flypaper cham, T. O'Neill,
who has a reputation? He is known
from here to Chicago (the Windy
City) a8 a boy who really sticks in
there, and has left an impressive
record well behind him.

O'Neill is an undrthodox stylist,

due to his father’s influence, always trying to hold things in
check (plug: his father manu
factures corsets and accessories)
and trains in an unusual manner.
Chief among his eccentricities is
his habit of racing backwards—
slurp—slurp? My leg muscles are
on the backs of my legs, aren’t
they? If [ run forward I will run
away from them, won’t I ? ” He
is still running backward!

A merciless swatter; O’Neill
should go far, literally and figuratively! Dal may not have a
Hope but as consolation, (?), there
is O'Neill.

 

International Student Service
announced the average daily calorie consumption of students in
Greece is 970, Germany 9001500, Austria 760, compared with
3,000 calories in Canada and the
minimum healthful diet of 2,000
calories.

NOWS «3 #6 's

DAL - CHAMPS; PROTEST UPHELD 
Officials Reverse Ruling

At a special session of the Can
adian Amateur Basketball last
week, in Toronto, the members
present supported the Dalhousie

claim against the use of a player
mamed Service, by Naty, in their

series with Dal for the city title.

Just when it seemed that the
local officials would
form, and again throw out the protest, a telegram was received from
Toronto, informing them that the
playoff schedule was being alterNova Scotia

would not have to be

revert to

ad and the winner
declared until two weeks later than the original date,

added information
disposal, the

Dal’s

Having this
at their

called in

executive

representatives,

 

GRADUATION |. AHEAD

custom—and a
rrad
It’s an old
very nice one—to
uation with a gift.

mark

Your family won't be offended if you mention a Birks
Challenger watch—they probably were thinking of one any- i
way.

BIRKS & SONS

LIMITED

HENRY

Registered Jeweliar,
American Gem Society
Halifax, N. 8.

 

for NYLON SWEATER GIRLS

Light as thistledown, whisk

‘em

through the suds and they’re washed
ina jiffy... perfect for the college

wardrobe.

Shown ina range of

lovely, luscious shades.

16 to 40

 
    

$6.65

  

THIRD FLOOR

 

 

Mingo and Chisholm, and asked
to hear their side of the story,
having thrown away the written
protest. Apparently carried away
by the eloquence of the Dal plea
and the justice of the Dal case,
the meeting unanimously approved the protest, and ordered the
series awarded to Dalhousie.

Although now City Champions,
the Dal team had been inactive
for two weeks, and, feeling that
this layoff would be harmful to
the chances of the City winners,
after a hurried consultation between the Dal officials, they announced that they were satisfied
to have justice done, and
their protest upheld, and, therefore, they would withdraw in
favour of the Navy, who had been
preparing for further competition.

(We should live so long ! ! !)

seen

 

 

 

STUDENTS MEET at

DIANA SWEETS
TEA ROOM
3868 Spring Garden Road
Toasted Hot Dogs, Lunches

and Fountain Service

Oxford Theatre

Mon.

 

 

 

 

and Tues.

“Rebecca”

Joan Fontain, Lawrence Oliver

 

Wed. and Thur.

“Letter From Evie”
“Junior Prom”

Fri. and Sat.

“Bowery Bombshell”’
‘“‘House on 92nd St.”’

 

 

servicemen who have returned
to the University will find their
Clothing

requirements for their

civilian life, at . .

SHANE’S

112 Spring Garden Road

 

Whether sporting, collegiate or
social wear, they can be met from

our full lines of clothing.

CANADA’S FINEST
CIGARETTE

 
   

   
  

  
 
    
   
  
   
    
  
   
   
  
   
   
   
  
    
  
  
   
     
    
 
   
  

 

HE
:
14

j

1

in other

   

SCM Runner Off To USA CAMPUS
To Try For Four Minute Mile

DIL GODDS PUTS FAITH IN LORD
The GAZETTE was fortunate enough the other day in obtaining
an interview with Dil. Godds, the Dalhousie long distance runner who
is one his way to New York to compete in the 1947 Spring Track sea
son.

As a matter of fact Mr, Godds was already on his way when we

spied him trotting down Robie Street on his way out of Halifax. On
his singlet, superimposed over a large “D’’, was the incription “New
York or Bust, or Godd’s sponsored by the S. C. M.” Not willing to delay the athlete we jogged along with him for some way, and discovered
several facts about him that had aot appeared in the local newspapers.

 

Dal Wins
Squash Meet

Dal’s first Squash team (faculty
and students) downed a Navy
squad at Stadacona in an exhibition match last week, winning
8 out of 10 contests.
The results are as follows:
McCormack (D) def. McDonald
(N)—3-0.
McCormack (D) def. Pullen (N)
—3-0.
Adshead (D) def. Pullen (N) —
3-0.
Adshead (D) def. McDonald (Ny
—3-0.
Hont (D) def. Kidd (N) ago,
Hunt (D) def. McEwan (N) —
3-9,

et Creighton (D) def. Corgrave (N)

—J-(),
a (D) def. Kidd (N) —
(D}—

McEas (N) def. Fraser

corms (D) def. Fraser (Ny—

0.

 

DVA NOTICE

Students concerned should note:
(1) A failure in a final examination in the last complete

. year of entitlement will disqualify

a student from an extension of
benefits beyond the normal period
ef month-for-month; since D. V.
A. obtain all final marks, from the
Registrar any recommendation of
4 student with a failure would be
cancelled automatically by D. V.
A. Rumors concerning procedure
colleges or D, V, A.
offices are without foundation.

(2) D, V. A. have asked that

’ students concerned take note that
an extension of benefit will apply

only to training taken in attend
ance at the University; it will not
apply to “training-on-the-job”,

which includes articling for Law

apprenticeship for Pharm
       

acy.
(3) «Extension of entitlement

Dil, who claims that it is the
Lord who enables him to win every
race he comes first in, said that
he keeps in condition running to
classes and-to church. While he is
in the United States he intends
to take part in the Intercollegiate
A. A. A. A. Championships, the
Daily News Carnival in Chicago
and the Kentucky Derby in Kentucky. ‘

While competing in the coming
outdoor track season, Dil’ is confidant he can at last break the
four -minute mile. His secret, he
says, is the Math I dogma of Professor Hebb that a straicht line is
the shortest distance between two
points. Conversely, Godds argues,
the mile is shorter if laps are
eliminated and he runs in a straight
line,

Dal students, and his S. CC. M.
colleagues in particular will view
Dil. Godds activities with interest.

PING-PONG
RESULTS

The Dal Ping Pong Championships have been compléted, and
the awards were made at the annual mé@eting of the D. A. A. C.,
with cups going to Bill Pope, Bob
Blois, and Whitney Truman.

Pope won the Singles Title, defeating George Mosher in the
finals by scores of 21-19, 21-13,
21-19.

In a closely-contested doubles
final, Bob Blois and Whitney
Truman edged out Bill Pope and
Jim Bell: 21-19, 19-21, 21-17,
16-21, 21-19.

 

 

covers only one academic year at
a time; extension for each subsequent year will depend on the
maintenance of the required standard,

Office of the University Veteran
Adviser.

ROU NDU P

(By THOMAS O'NEILL)

Every so often, we get our
faith built up in human kind, only
to have it shattered again by the
actions of some heel, the genus
being well spread through the
race. Last week, a Dal co-ed student laid her year’s typewritten
notes down, for a minute, and afforded a Dalhousie representative
of the above genus its chance. The
book was later found with the
typewritten notes of two subjects
removed. The next time some
type throws his arms in the air,
gets a dazed look in his eye and
says all men are good, I’m going
to crasher right in his eye.

+ + © a

The Dalhousie boxing team held
a tournament on Monday night
and came out with a surprising
array of mitt talent. [If Jack MeKenna stays with us, to coach, ancircles. Like all the. other sporttough to beat in intercollegiate
ing groups on the campus the

- leather pushers are short of equip
mente A felt mat must be purchased to be placed under the
canvas for absorbing the shock
of *he ntimerous falls. Conrod
was knocked out of the tourney
by hitting his head on the floor—
an injury like this, could be ser1Ous,

> oo Lal “

Seeing that this is the last issue
of the Gazette for this year, it is
appropriate that we should dispense a few orchids where maybe too many stinkweeds have been
given. The Dal Student’s Council of this year has certainly done
a good job in bringing back Dal

spirit along .with handling the
student’s affairs. There will be
few more capable presidents than
Clint Havey, who is a cinch to
make a name for himself, as he
embarks on his chosen profession,
this year. The DAAC, ably led by
Dave Doig, has also raised the
Dalhousie stock and spirit. The
two societies have laid the foundations for a banner year in 47.

In case you've forgotten. we
will remind you that Dal won two
intercollegiate championships, this
year, for a net gain (that’s a bad
one, son) by winning both the
hadminton and tennis laurels.

 

OUR SLIP IS SHOWING
With this last issue, The GAZETTE finally realizes that it has
, forgotten something — the name of, Bob Tuck on the Mast Head as
_ Assistant Sports Editor. Pardon us, Bob — And thanks a lot. e

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

junior age limit, and |

Page Five

 

Boxers Chosen

In Gym Meet

A boxing meet was run off
Dal last Monday night in order to
select the Intercollegiate team for
the Meet at Antigonish next weekend. A total of seven bouts were
run off, with four K, O’s and T. RK.
O.’s being registered, welterweight
Kev Miller scoring two technical
knockouts to win his ¢lass,

The first bout was an exhibition
encounter with Bryce Burgess
(136) scoring a 3rd round K. O.
over John Moulasson (135). Although slow to open up, Burgess
made short work of his opponent,
when he started to move in the
third round.

In the second bout of the night.
Don Kerr (144) made a good
showing for two rounds against
Key Miller, (144) who was favoured to win, but in the third, Miller
completed the work he started at
the end of the second, when he
had Kerr down for a 7-connt.
Kerr was knocked down and injured his knee, the Referee stopping
the fight.

The third match was a sluefest between Ace Furlong (156)
and Creighton Baker (160), with
Furlong having the edge, especially in close-in fighting, knocking
his opponent out in the last few

seconds of the second round.

The closest fight of the evening
was between Norm Stewart (172)
and Johnny Lindsay ¢172), who,
for the second time, fought to a
three-round draw. Both boys
roughed it up a little at the first
and both were bleeding at the
end of the fight, from cuts.

In the slowest contest of the
programme, Al Kenty (135) and
Bryce Burgess (136) fought to a
three-round waltz and draw, although the Gazette correspondent
thought that the decision” should
have gone to Kenty

Key Miller (144)
second win of the night over
Warren Conrad (145) in a hardhitting match, knocking Conrad
to the canvas in the second round
with a hard right cross. Conrod
struck his head on the floor and
was further dazed, with the Referee, Jack McKenna stopping the
fight, after Miller had landed a
few more blows.

scored his

In the last encounter of the
evening, Wallace (174) gave
Bert Campbell (195) an artistic
boxing lesson in three short
rounds, with an excellent display
of pugilistic skill,

 

MEDS WIN INTERFAC
HOCKEY PLAYOFF

The Engineers, down nine goals
on the total goal round, defeated
Medicine by a 9-5 score Friday
afternoon but lost the series 1510. The Boilermakers displayed
great fight in their vain endeayvour to overcome the commanding
lead Meds piled up by winning the
first game 10-1,

Meds started strong, but
tallies by Skinner Flynn took the
wind out of their sails and Engineers were holding a 3-1 lead at the
end of the period. Engineers kept
it up in the second and soon took

two

ent story as the Forrestites outplayed the Engineers and outscored them 4-3. This period was
rough, but referee Carson sent
only one offender to the cooler.
Deacon of Meds led his team’s
offensive thrusts fin this period
with three of the four goals put
behind Harvey McKeough. Altogether Deacon scored four goals,
Flynn had two goals and a like

number of assists and Teasdale,
Thorman and Steeves potting
singletons,

Meds: — Moffatt, MacDonald,

 

a 6-1 lead on goals by Graves, Thorpe, MacKay, Cox, Vair, Deac
Blakeney and Lamont. However on, Allen, Miller, Hill, Giffen,

Medicine settled down their shaky Ross, Fox.

defence and held the rampaging Engineers:—MeceRKeouch, Graves,

shacksters scoreless for the rée- Brown, Steeves, Isnor, LaMont,

mainder of the frame. Thornan, Fiynn, Teasdale, BlakThe third period told a differ- eney.

Letter From Hoop Coach

Dear Don: teams in competition, thus ase
Now that the basketball season suring a steady flow of basket
is pretty well over I'd Jike a little
of your valuable space for a few
comments, if possible.

You aré aware of the final playoff situation Navy and the
results of it. To say it is the most
unfair decision I can recall in
basketball is putting it mildly.

You will recall jin a little interview at the first of the season I
told you the vear should be regarded primarily.as a “building”
year for basketball. Only
three of all the men who turné@d
out for basketball w

with

about

ere over the
think the
results achieved this squad
give reason for gratification.

We won the intermediate city
league in which we were entered,
lost the first playoff with the
senior winner by only five points,
won the second by 12 and dropp-,
éd a close third one after the
Navy augmented their team with
a player we claim they had no
right to use,

We brought alone a number of
younger players who I’m sure will
be most valuable assets for future
Dal teams. I think if the proper
procedure is followed next year
Dal should have three or four

with

ball material.

regret we did not compete In
junior basketball this year but we
which T think will
junior teams in future at
Dalhousie,, where an abundance
of material of players in this ate
exists,

covered ground

lead to

category

I would like to add a word reto the conduct of the players, Both on and off the floor I
have never been associated with
a finer group of young men. For
teams it is fashionable to
cut up a bit when on the road,

lative

some

action which sometimes brings
disrepute upon the orgahization
they represent. There was not one

instance or sugestion of this with
the Dal basketball team this year.

The university undoubtedly has
had better teams but I’m sure no
finer group of men ever represented Dalhousie.

The co-operation from team
members and officials has been all
that one could ask and this, my
first association with Dalhousie as
a coach, has been a most happy
one,

Sincerely,
KEN CHISHOLM.

=

    
      
     
     
     
       
      
    
     
     
        
     
     

  

        
 
   
     
        
           
       
         
 
      
    
     
          
      
 
      
 

 

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

OLDEST STUDENT PUBLICATION

 

Atom Blast In
Physics Lab ?

 

Reports from the Department of Physics indicate that Dalhousic's
excursions into the field of neucleur-pbysics are at last bearing fruit.
Professor X. Lacks this week in a syncopated press release exclusive,
stated, “We have at last finished work om our cyclotron—the first constructed East of Montreal, and we will go into action next week. We
have a fairly large supply of atoms om band, and atom-smashing will
begin before long. Anyone interested is welcome to drop over and have

a smal] smash."

Professor Lacks is a graduate
of Dalhousie in the class of 1883.
He studied Physics, and specializjng in Ex-lax. He began his work
in atomic fissure shortly after the
‘Boer War, in which he served as
& Blue Cross hospital Plan nurse.
After many years of experimentation Prof. Lacks has at last
achieved success.

Questioned as to the possibility of serious atom blasts caused
by the complicated workings of
his machine, the Prof. replied—
“Absolutely no danger. There
have been atoms around here for
several years—and none of them
have exploded.”

 

Gazette’s
Farewell

S
2 i a

CE

 

Gazette

Girl...

 

As one of the final activities of the year, the staff of the Dalhousie
GAZETTE this week chose “The Girl We Would Most Like to Share
Our Typewriter With Whether She Can Type Or Not.” Unanimous
choice of the GAZETTERS ie shown in an exclusive shot by our staff

photographer.

She is Miss Mathilda Montmorency, genius student in

the Department of Neuro-Psychology.

 

 

o-eds Quarrel

At Dal Also !

Following close upon manifestations of a definitely distasteful
nature in Upper Canada (one of the regions beyond the Maritimes) a
somewhat similar matter was handled with better taste and in the fine
old tradition so dear to the gentlemen of this Campus.

After a fracas involving the honour of their male escorts at the
Sadie Hawkins Dance, two ladies met behind the Gym, a challenge was

inawed and the gages thrown down.

The challenged party decided
upon French foils withant buttons,
and « svitable time was arranged,
On the following morning the two
parties met for the engagement,
as agreed upon, and the judges
spoke shortly, explaining the rules
and regulations to be in force.

The challenger won the first

decision with a clever counter
thrust to the upper left, and the
second alse. The challenged party
was borne away by her friends
and is reported to be in no danger.

We commend the attitude with
which the matter was approached,
particularly after the Toronto

 

King & Pope
To Visit Dal

Statements made to close as:
sociates this week indicate that
George C. King, Dalhousie Engineer, and William Pope, Graduating in Arts this year, will take
keen delight in visiting Dalhousie
after graduation.

Munro Day Show

Unknown to many Dal students
who saw him at. the Munro Day
Show, Robert Taylor mingled freely in the vast crowd and thoroughly enjoyed himself. It is his opinion that Dalhousie is the finest
university that he ever attended.
Robert is a freshman student from
Joggin Bridge, N. S.. and is al

 

present dwelling at Cathedral
Barracks.

o
Automatistes

(Exchange from Le Quartier
Latin)

Borduas est a former chez-nous
autrement dit,

s’efforcent de

des “automatistes”’,
des peintres qui
creer des sensations nouvelles par
le seul jeu des couleurs sous
Yeffect du sub conscient.
Voulez-vous vous rendre compte
L’exposit ion
rue Sher
de leurs travaux?
se tient av 75 Ouest
brooke, jusqu’au 1 er mars. L’entree est libre.

Dal Men To
Hub, Inspect
Sanitation .

Last week, Dalhousie students
Robert M’dougall, and Gerald
Fuzzter paid a business visit to
the industrial city of Moncton.
These two prominent Dalhousjans, interested in sanitary engineering, completed their journey
on the back end of one of their
trucks, marked: City of Moncton
Garbage Disposal.

In order to inspect their extens
 

ive industrial domain, they ate
lunch in the vicinity of the city
incinerator, where and excellent

view of the hub may be had.

As a final gesture of good-will
the pair left the Railway City on
the back of a load of cement
demonstrating their friendly relations with their competitors.

Ina statement to the GAZETTE
up on his return, Mr. M’dougall
stressed the importance of periodical check-ups on those interests
closest to his heart. He spoke
with pride on the manner in which
tycoon Fuzzter of Ottawa fame
had heen accepted into the city's
society.

 

fiasco. The dictates of the old
schoo! of conduct are not so valueless as to be thrown to the winds
in the heat of a sudden encounter,
but have developed over several
centuries of polite argument.
Toronto should enter itself in a
finishing school for a while.
*

3
a

PHOTO CAPTION

The students in the photo above
research on ImImperial

are continuing
perial Oil Fellowships.
Oil awards four fellowships annually which are open to graduates recommended by any Can;
adian University. The fellowships
are worth $1000 a year and may
be held for three years.

Crackerjack
Objectionable

By T. B. O'NAIL

Otte yesterday de
President

creed that there must he sweeping changes in the various lines
and invendos in the official college
songs. It was stated from unusually reliable sources that the
lines referred to were those contained in that nasty little ditty

entitled “My Girls a Crackerjack”
where it is forcefully stated that
the boys intend to graduate with
and a wife. The most
objectionable lines which unniistakenly have a low purpose
“I go there to ——,” and “How—
did you find that out’’. These expressions are said. positively to be
taken out of Sterno who, along
with Sam Peeps is on the Dalhousie Index. President of the
Student’s Council, Sauint Heavy
says ““We'll have no more of those
blankety blank blanks around
here.”

NOTICE

a degree

are

 

   

Friday, March 21, 1947

 

Robert Taylor At ON CAMPUS

IS IT!" The group of

studente

“THIS
wildly excited geology
babbled in incoherent undertones
as they gazed unbelievingly at the
oil lying before them.

“AT LAST WE'VE FOUND
IT,” said one of the fortunate DalStunned, they paused
minute,*then one of the
students stooped and picked up
the bottle of hair oil that had
dropped from one of the Studley
residence windows, and had
caused a mild pre-dance flurry
among dry-scalped students.

Students Scrap

filthy hands off
the coed, her eyer
she

housians.

tor a

“Take your
shouted

blazing fiercely as

me,’
struggled

with the male student who held
her.

“If I didn’t love you,’ he
said, “I'd break every bone in

your vicious little body." He then
flung her from him into a near
by arm-chair, and strode across

the room, a deep scowl on his
handsome face.
She ran from the chair towards
him. He heard her and turned
to meet the rush. The sound of her
open palm across his cheek
startled her.

“Oh did I hurt you?” she asked tenderly.

“Stop,—that'll do now.”

‘It’s no use, I'm afraid,” said
the coed. “It’s too corny.”
And so the GAZETTE staff

scrapped the play that they had
designed for the Munro Day Shew

NOTICE

 

 

LEON DISPUTIN
The society executive has
M. Leon Disputin
definitely WILL NOT address the

Communist cell on this campus on

ang

nounced that

March 25. Unfortunately, M.
Disputin is serving a term in city
prison for subversive activities.

COL. GEORGE STANDFAST
The executive of the Progressive
Reactionary Society has annownced that Col. George Standfact
definitely WILL address the Anti.
Communist Cell on this Campus
on Friday, March 25.

 
     

 

  

7 7 >»

Friday, Mareh 21, 1947

    

« CANADA'S OLDEST STUDENT PUBLICATION

 

 

Editor-in-Chief _
AL LOMAS (3-4505)

News Features Sports
RED LAMPERT, P-1 JACK LUSHER DON HARRIS
_ Literary News Co-Ed Sports
ART MOREIRA LEW MILLER, P-3 FRAN DOANE

Photographer Proofreader Business Manager
DON MORRISON RALPH MacDONALD DON HARRIS

Office Manager JERRY FOSTER
Vol. 78 Friday, March 21, 1947 No. 20

 

Battered But Unbowed...
ti. Se | «6 6B >

    

 

Seeks
ae

 
    

  

Here they are. Revealed at last—the students who have published thie —** X!3 ° paper for twenty weeks of the year. Now their
job is finished—and they may start some of the studying they have
had to forego. It has been a pleasure (it says here) to publish the
GAZETTE for you. And now — adieu.

THE LAST WORD ...

We have reached the end of our publishing year with this issue
number 20. And it is now the inescapable task of the editor that he
must compose one final editorial to surpass all editorials. At the same
time he must avoid the trite and hackneyed phrases of farewells. This
is difficult.

Locking back — and looking ahead — we see Dalhousie now in
the ‘critical period’. Whether we admit to it or not, the future though
not determined, is on its way, and Dalhousie stands between success
and mediocrity... Still the largest of the Maritimes’ ‘Big Five’ Universities, it now faces the serious competition of the remaining four. A
slip now from the progress of the past several years, and the hand that
forms the writing on the wall may spell — Failure.

This year, there have been many obvious advances, both materia!ly and intellectually. Enrollment has again increased. New buildings have
been purchased or leased. Indicating a fuller realization of the students’ role in Canada of the future — political clubs have been established on this campus. That this has not been accomplished without
some opposition is deplorable — but unfortunately true.

Under an efficient Students’ Council, student affairs have been administered wisely and well. A progressive Glee Club has proven Dalhousie’s best public relations department in demonstrating to the community as a whole, some of the best accomplishments of the students.
The D. A. A. C. has laid the foundations for better athletic teams,
which are probably the best advertising mediums this University could
have. But this is far from enough.

Dalhousie’s position in this city and province must be more widely
recognized, What this University has to offer — that no other University can — must be made known. Dalhousie must gain the leading role
in all phases of University life, against determined competition, or
accept the position of mediocrity.

It has been said that instead of an atmosphere of intellectual stimulation, there is here developed an atmosphere of stolid ‘grind’. Should
this develop, Dalhousie’s position as the foremost University of the
East is lost. Dalhousie must be able to offer not only an education—
but a liberal education—to employ that much used and misconstrued
phrase, In this University, should be centered the culture of the Maritimes, which is already finding refuge in another Nova Scotian University. More, the student leaving Dalhousie should have a realization of the problems confronting the Canadian nation, and sufficient
understanding that he may subjugate sectional interests for the welfare
of hie country. And finally, the process of education should arouse in
him sufficient interest in the world outside his door, that he, as an individual member of society, may make his contribution to mankind.

And s0 we come to write finis to our efforts, and as it is our end,
so it is the beginning for our successors. To the many hard working
and stimulating people who have helped to produce this year’s GAZETTE, we say, “Thank you". To the new Editor, :

‘to the new Council, and to Dalhousie, we say “Congratulations, and
Good Rs u oe : :

 

 
 

MERCHANT
SEAMEN

No doubt you are aware that
veterans’ rehabilitation legislation
does not apply to veterans of
the Merchant Navy. A number of
Merchant Navy Veterans here, at
the University of ‘British Columbia, have formed a group with the
intention of pressing vigorously
for the extension of this legislation to cover Merchant Seamen
who served during the war. We
wish to see similar groups formed
on the various campuses across
Canada.

The immediate support of all
Merchant Navy Veterans, now attending University, is needed to
ensure the success of this campaign. All interested should contact us immediately for full mformation at the following address; Merchant Navy Veterans
Committee, U. B. C. Branch 72.
Canadian Legion, University of
British Columbia, Vancouver.

JOHN R. MUNRO, Secretary.

Merchant Navy Veterans’ Com
mittee, U. B. C. Branch No. 72,

Canadian Legion, University of

B. C,

 

Newman Club
Meetin
eeting

Miss Kay MacLean, Toronto,
will address a combined meeting
of Newman Club, St. Mary’s
College and Mount St. Vincent
students next Sunday evening at
St. Mary’s College. A former
president of the University of
Toronto Newman Club, Miss MacLean represented the National]
Fereration at the 20th World
Congress of Pax Romana held in
Fribourg, Switzerland, last summer. Her visit to Halifax is made
en route to Rome where she will
represent the Newman Club Federation at an international meeting of Catholic student federations.

Mark Yeoman was elected president of the Club for 1947-48
and Jack Boudreau was the popular choice ‘for ithe vice-presidency; Joan Walker, also of Halifax, was elected secretary-treasurer. Other members on the new
executive are Bill Somers, spiritual director; Bill Kelly, socia!
director; Bob MacLellan, intellectual director, and Pat Crosby.
publicity director. Faculty representatives will be named early
next year. ;

After a year’s operations, the
retiring secretary, Jack MacCormack, revealed the financial
status of the Club is secured by
a calculable surplus.

 

PASS MARK
ARTS & SCIENCE

The following notice, has been
received from the Secretary of the
Faculty of Arts and Science.

In order that marks may be
brought into conformity with
those prevailing in other universities, the Faculty has decided that
beginning with the session 194748 the standard required for a
pass shall be represented by a
mark of 50%. ..This regulation
will go into effect for the regular
supplemental examinations in September, 1947.

Other marks and requirements

will be adjusted accordingly.

 

CATHEDRAL

So that a preliminary estimate
may be made of accommodation
desired, those intending to apply
for rooms at Cathedral Residence
sre reauested to submit applications AS SOON AS POSSIBLE.
Office of the University Veteran

Adviser.

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

*
Page Seven

 

Corsages

A “Colonial” Corsage de.
signed by ROSEDALE
speaks eloquent volumes
of tenderness and love.

Dine at

The

Green Lantern
The Sign of a Geod
Meal.

  

38] NURSERIES Limited...
BARRINGTON /T- HALIFAX

 

 

“Heat Merchants Since 1835”

5: Cunard and Company, Limited

HARD COAL * SOFT COAL
COKE * FUEL OIL

OIL BURNING EQUIPMENT

HALIFAX, N. S.

ee

DARTMOUTH, N. S.

FAVORITES SINCE 1906
Moncton, N. B.

Halifax St.John Quebec Montreal

 

Dalhousie University

Halifax, Nova Scotia

 

Largest Staff, Libraries and Laboratories in the Maritimes
The Faculty of Arts and Science
: éujoys international distinction

 

Diplomas in:

Bachelor of Arts Engineering

Bachelor of Science Education

Bachelor of Commerce Music

Bachelor of Music Pharmacy

Master of Arts Hospital Pharmacy

Master of Science Mining Geology
Pre-Professional Courses

Honour and Advanced Courses in many departments

in the B. Sc. course about $210.00 a year

in the B. A. Course average about $160.00 a year

Many valuable scholarships, on entrance and through the courses

Regional Scholarships awarded .on the result of examinations held in

February in any Maritime school. Special $600.00 scholarships for Hon
our courses in Classics, Mathematics, Modern Languages and History.

The Professional Faculties

Law, Medicine, Dentistry, enjoy an unexcelled reputation.

Degrees of:

Inclusive Fees

Residences
Women students five in Shirreff Hall — one of the finestelVomen’s
Residences in the Dominion. Residence is provided for first year men
in the University Men's Residence. Other men students live in either
of two aff#iated institutions or in selected and approved homes.
Special accommodation is provided for married and single exdervice

students,

Meals for all students are available at the University.
For full information write to THE REGISTRAR,

a ‘ 5 ee
Fal , =

a I a 5 a aa Se a a a —
. ; ’ : ‘ “

 

 

 
   

   

 

 

CANADA'S

Vou a8

COUNCIL APPOINTS

 

*

 

OLDEST STUDENT

HALIFAX, N. S., MARCH 21, 1947

PUBLICATION

No, 20%

 

DAAC Meet Vets To Run ‘Ewenrror....

The outgoing DAAC held their
final meeting on Tuesday, when
they distributed the yearly awards

. of major and\ miner felt D's, The

meeting was called upon and
approved the awarding of major
felt D's to those deserving, who
were made ineligible by extenuating circumstances,

Dave Churchill-Smith, captain
of the hockey team, then made a
presentation of an engraved
cigarette lighter to coach Windy
O'Neill, for his ‘excellent work
With the team.

The manecers of the teams
Were then called upon to offer adVice to the incoming executive.
Bill Mingo recommended stands
for the gym and closer cooperation between interfaculty and
varsity teams. Lew Bell suggested
that the Dal rugby be taken out
of the inter-collegiate league and
Placed in the senior city league.

The meeting closed with votes
of thanks given to the outcoing
executive, and to Physical Director John MacCormack for their
outstanding work this year.

DVA

March—Paymient will be made at
the end of the month as
in January and February.
Dates expected are Friday and Saturday, or
Monday and Tuesday.
Please watch the Noticeboards.

April — Payments will be made on
Monday, Tuesday, and
Wednesday, April 28, 29,
and 80. Students whose
examinations end earlier
and who will leave before
April 28 should apply as
soon as possible to D. V.
A. for earlier payment
covering the number of
days actually to be attended. Cheques will not
be mailed.

May — Graduates are expected
to remain for Convocation, and will be paid for
thirteen days in May,
probably on May 10 or
12th.

 

Employment
Organization

“With a capable manager to
guide the Part-time Employment
Bureau there is no reason why 2
monthly gross. of $3000 could
not be realized.” This statement
was made by Vic Wylie, one of the
Burean’s originators, at the final
Vets meeting of the academic
year, when the Vets officially took

over the Bureau .
be continued

The service will
throuchout the summer so that
established groundwork will not

be wasted, and eo that it will be
prepared to function immediately
at the start of the coming term.

Any student may apply for parttime employment. Information
may be obtained from Bob Mitchell, Vie Wylie. Norm Sinclair or
Dave Churchill-Smith.

A manager for the Bureau will
be required for the summer. Applications must be in prior to
March 31st. Apply to Part-time
Employment Bureau, c-o Mr. Bob
Mitchell, Apt. 3, Cornwallis Manor,
Summer Street, City; or Vets
Office in Cathedral Barracks.

 

Constitution

Approved

On Tuesday the new Arts and

' Science executive met for the first

time with the Arts and Science
society for the purpose of adopting a new constitution. A report
Was given concerning the campaign waged for Harry Rhude in
the past Student Council elections,
and as a result, a deficit in the
Arts and Science treasury of
$9.00 was brough to the attention
of the meeting. It was then decided that the dues called for in
the new constitution would be
collected both this year and next
for the purpose of replenishing
the coffers of the society.

Elaborate plans were then
drawn up for the forthcoming
year.

 

_... MILLER

a

THIS WEER: ; <<.

 

Page 8.—Council Appoints New Editor
Page 7.—Battered But Unbowed

Page 6.—Oil Found On Campus

Page 5.—Boxers Chosen

Page 4.—Dal Protest Upheld
Page 3.—The Red Peril (Again)
Page 2.—Boilermakers Bulletin

Page 1.—The Last Word

 

NEW EDITOR

LAST REGULAR MEETING OF OLD COUNCIL
MAKES APPOINTMENTS, WINDS UP BUSINESS

The Dalhousie Council of Students wound up its affairs of administration Wednesday night in the last regular meeting prior *o ex
aminations, with the appointment of

Lew Miller, this year’s news

Editer, to the position of Editor in Chief of the GAZETTE for 1947
48. Selected Business

rently acting as Assistant Business Manager.

Manager for next year was Alan Rubin, cur
Since there were no ap
plications for,;the position, the appointment of an Editor for the Year
hook was deferred until a meeting to be held shortly after the close of
examinations. Jim MacDonald, one time football manager, was given
the post of Business Manager of the yearly.

 

Cadets Only

undergraduates acOfficers

the

University
the Canadian
will

lieutenants but

cepted in
Training
status of

Corps have
second
will ‘not bé commissioned on aceeptance into the Corps, Army H.
Members of

KnOWn as

@.. announced today.
the Corps will now be
officer cadets and
missioned officers. They will, however, be paid as second lieuten
not as com
ants.

 

Pan-Hellenic, Leonard

Award To Fisher, Rogers

This year’s winner of the Marjory
Leonard Award is
Jocelyn Rogers of
Halifax, first year
Music student and
a graduate of Q.
E.H.S. This award,
an engraved silver
spoon, is presented

 

by the former P. E. Il. Marjory
Leonard to the “best all round

good sport and the most helpful
member of the D. G. A. C.

Jocelyn came in with a reputation to uphold, for she has played
for two years on the Senior Q. E.
H. basketball team, and has also
gained recognition as a referee
and a coach. She has upheld this
reputation by becoming one of
the Intermediate basketball team’s
most outstanding players, as well
as a valuable member of the badminton team. Her popularity and
her leadership has proven itself
by the fact that she has been
elected for next year’s basketball
manager.

The Pan - Hellenie award, the
highest honor bestowed on any first
year girl by the
Dalhousie Student
body, goes this
year to Renate
Fisher of St. John. oy #
Rennie left St.

John High at which she
was Secretary of the Athletic Association, to enter Dal last fall on
Registered in Preretained hich

school

a scholarship.
Med she
scholastic record,

Rennie not only participates in
on the In
has her

sports, she is a guard
termediate basketball team, and is
a keen swimmer and skier but is
also a member of the Musical Appreciation Society. Painting is also
one of her many accomplishments.

Having displayed an outstanding Dalhousie spirit and personality Rennie has proven herself a
worthy choice for the Pan-Hellenic award as Dalhousie’s outstanding freshette.

 

S.C.M. MEET HEARS SPEAKER ON COMMUNISM

Believing that students should
have some definite knowledge of a
force that is as strong in the world
today as Communism, the S&S. C.
M. invited Mrs. Ethel Meade to
address their Open Houre meeting.

Following musical selections by
Miss Frances Saulnier, violinist,
and Miss Margaret Conrad, vocalist, Mrs. Meade, in her opening

,remarka, stressed the fact that

* Communism is a living issue to
day. It challenges economic history s i » concluding that
& complete change of the social
order is the only solution to the

7 ’
: rial

proven inadequacy of capitalism.

Seme questions asked, and the
answers given, follows:

1. What are the indications of
faults in the present system,’ and
what do Communists propose to do
about them? —

Mrs. Meade, in answer, presented a concise, scholarly analysis of
the capitalistic economic system
which is featured by periodic depressions. The Communists see the
cause of depressions in the unfair profit distributions. They propose a new system of profit distribution.

,2. What is the difference be
tween Communism and Socialism
as exemplified by the C. C. F. and
L. P. P. Parties?

The original distinction, the
speaker explained, came when
Marx and Engels formulated the
Communist Manifesto. Their ideas
were so different from contemporary concepts that they used the
new name, Communism. It is
recognized that socialism is a stage
in the development toward true
communism. In the oft-quoted
phrases, socialism is “from each
according to his ability, to each
according to his work’, and communism is “from each according

to his ability to each according to
his need.”

3. Mrs. Meade was asked how
she, as a Communist, reconciled
Christianity and Communism.

She replied that there are many
communists who reject Christianity because of its idealism in contrast to their own affirmed materialism; but she believes that
one can be an active Christian
and a Communist in that an active
Christian must seek also to better
the world socially, Weak or passive Christianity cannot be reconciled with the moving force of
of Communism.

 

An interim report on the state
of the Gazette's finances, read by
Don Harris, indicatted that
GAZETTE woud comer through
this year within its budget, Lew
Miller, I. S. S. Chairman,
ei on I. S .S. activity and finances
to date.

Students’ Directory Editor, Bob

t h e

report
Blois, reported on that publication, revealing a net deficit of
$245.54, caused by large increasin printing edsts.

Changing from an administra
tive to a judical body, the Council then gave judgement on the
McGinnes Vs. Campbell,

latter $50.00 and

case of
finding the suspension of his
his part in a recent fracas.

New constitutions for the Arts
and Science and Pre-Medical
Societies were adopted with slight
amendments. The $138.23 Munro
Day budget was approved,

D, A, A, C. expenditures for a
badminton trip to Mt. Allison, and
a boxing trip to St. F. X. were
approved, and a $50.00 increase
yoted to its annual budget.

With that—the Council
home,

Council card for

went

 

Renovation
In Student
Health Care

During the
session a student who is too ill to
attend the clinic, or if taken ill in
the afternoon or evening, may call

remainder of the

any doctor practising in the city,
If the student wishes advice in
the matter of selecting a doctor
he should telephone the Clinic.
2-3363 (at any hour) or Students’
Health Service 3-8438 (9-5 daily).
At the conclusion of the doctor’s
attendance, the student should pay
the doctor, obtain a receipted bill
stating the number of visits made
and the diagnosis of the illness,
and then present this receipt to
the Director of the Students’
Health Service. The student will
be reimbursed by the University
Business Manager at the rate of
two dollars per visit, with a limit
of five dollars for each illness.

The student will be reimbursed
at the rate of three dollars for
each day in hospital to the extent
of five days.

ACKNOWLEDGEMENT

The Editors of the GAZETTE
wish to extend their thanks to
Professor Lamberton for his gen€rous assistance with the awarding of points to Literary Contributions.

 

 
