  
    
      

   
    

 

 

|} MARITIMES |

\

a
nT

 

_ PAPER IN THE

I To

MOCK PARLIAMENT
OPENS WITH POMP

SPLENDOUR AND MAGNIFICENT CEREMONY MARK
OPENING OF HOUSE—MANY SPEECHES

 

 

With pomp, ceremony and solemnity the Senate and the House of Commons
convened to listen to the address of His Excellency Colonel Thompson in the
Senate Chambers at the Law School, last Wednesday evening. The speech from
the Throne outlined a policy of liberty, laughter and litigation.

The members resumed their seats in the House and the Honourable Members
of the Government gave notice of the introduction of various bills during the

sessions.
; ee

—_ —_- —. o

 

erent ieteeenciinessdincieentiimned ities cies se ae eee ee

)

 

In an address to move the Speech
from the Throne, Ben R. Guss, Saint
John, characterized the Speech as
“direct in its diction, most admirable
for its brevity, and like many men,
satisfactorily surprising in all that it
embraces."’ He hoped that the planks
of the Liberal platform would strike
everyone a good deal.

J. J. Fay, member for Middleton seconded the Speech from the Throne in an
address sparkling with gems of wisdom.
With pride he pointed to the bumper
apple and grain crops as vindicating the

 

Leader

 

   

success of the government. Mr. Fay
knows his poetry:

’ mitted in thy name!”

‘welcome Mrs. Chesley Allen,

‘When none were for the party and
all were for the State’, he hoped would
apply here.

Duncan MacLellan Conservative C.
B., arose and exclaimed: ‘The mover
and seconder have done  well—their
government has given them so little to
work on.” Mr. MacLellan characterized the speech as a frivolous, malicious
and iniquitous piece of work. ‘Oh
liberty!’’ he cried, “what sins are com
‘J. Js Lysons Atwood, Nationalist
Leader, delivered a lengthy peroration,
declaring the wonders contemplated by
his party. He gloried in every phase
of Canada’s progress as a nation. He
deprecated the policies of the government.

Conservative Leader
Alban Farmer, Conservative Leader,
took the Liberal platform, plank by
lank, pointing out fallacies, impossibilities and improbabilities with lucid
argument. Mr. Farmer received a

great ovation from his followers.

_ Premier’s Reply

The Right Honorable Andrew Olding
Hebb, leader of the Liberal Government
and amid great cheering essayed to
answer the studied onslaughts upon his
governmental policies. He rose to the
occasion admirably. His arguments
were pointed and on more than one
score disclosed the untenability of the
arguments of the opposition.

Mr. Feaver, Conservative, attacked
the policy of the Marine and Fisheries
department. Portfolio—Hon. Clyde W.
Sperry. Mr. Feaver is familiar with the
various phases of the fish problem. The
Hon. Mr. Sperry answered the opposition attacks unflinchingly.

Mr. M. B. MacKinnon, Conservative,
made a spirited appeal for the free
beers, wine and liquors promised by the
government. ‘The Miners need it.”

Hon. A. H. MacKinnon, Liberal rose
and exclaimed: ‘‘I am the only one here
who has ever seen the insides of a man.
I am competent to judge a miner's
needs.”

Albert J. Walsh, Nationalist member,
arrived late from his constituency,
but in an able address characterized
the “‘Speech"’ as a mere “puff’’ and
stressed the necessity of voting the
government out of office.

On submitting the motion, the Nationalists joined the Conservatives and the
Liberal Government was defeated.

The House adjourned with the Conservatives glorying in their success.
Political thinkers are reserving their
Opinions: it zs difficult to tell what the
next development will be.

Biology Cluh

The Biology Club met Jan. 26th at
8 p.m. in the Dental Theatre of the
Forrest Building.

Dr. Owen S. Gibbs, professor of Pharmacology gave an exceedingly interesting and able talk on the “Social
Uses of Drugs’’. He indicated that
drugs may be divided into two classes,
stimulants and depressants. Cocaine
and caffeine are examples of stimulants;
morphine, nicotine and alcohol are
depressants. Bromo-seltzer is one of
the most harmful of habit forming drugs
on the market, but the speaker thought
that the intelligent use of drugs to give
one pep for a social evening was natural
and not necessarily harmful, although
they do impair accurate judgment
especially where in driving a car,
rift decision is needful.
There was a large attendance at this
meeting and the club was age fe
r. Heth
erton, Dr. A. H. MacKay, Professors
Wilson and Maxwell, Dr. Huntsman,

 
    
  

 

Andrew Olding Hebb, last year's
Editor of the Gazette who was
chosen by the Debating Committee to lead the team that
as to debate against McGill

SKATING NIGHT

A Dalhousie Skating Night will be
held next Wednesday at the Forum if the
weather is favourable.

The Council at a meeting Jan. 24
decided to hold three more skating
nights at the Forum. Acting on the
instructions of the Council Mr. Rankin
arranged with the Forum for Wednesday
night. The Forum granted that night on
the condition that the weather will
permit the City League to play at the
Arena.

This will be the second of the four
Dal Nights at the Forum. Two more
will follow.

 

—P. O. H.

What Price Life

SINNERS IN HEAVEN

 

 

Man comes into this world without
his consent and leaves it against his will.
During his stay on earth, his time is
spent in one continuous round of contravies and misunderstandings by his
fellow beings. In his infancy he is an
angel; in his boyhood he is a devil; in
his manhood he is everything from a
lizard up; in his duties he is a fool; if he
raises a family he is a chump; if he
raises a small cheque he is a thief and
then the law raises blazes with him;
if he is a poor man he is called a poor
manager; if he is rich he is dishonest but
considered smart; if he is in politics he
is crooked, and an undesirable citizen:
if he goes to church he is a hypocrite; if
he stays away from church he is a sinner and damned; if he donates to foreign missions he does it for show; if he
doesn’t, he is stingy and a tightwad.
When he first comes into the world
everybody wants to kiss him; before
he goes out they all want to kick him.

If he dies young there was a great
future ahead of him; if he lives to a ripe
old age he is in the way.

This life is a funny road, but we all
like to travel it just the same, so while
you are here, you will be satisfied and
contented if you wiil join the line of the
cheerful and let such wise cracks as
were made by ‘‘The Majority of Students,” go the way they came—namely
from an empty head back into infinity.

—F,. B.S:

Dr. Leim and Dr. John Dobson.

_ At the close of the address the meeting adjourned to the Biology lab. where
a practical test was made on the use of
caffeine as a stimulant plus the depressing effects of biscuits.

       
 
   
 

—Official Student Publication at Dalhousie University—

> —_ SS == SI =

=

GAZETTE,;PRIZE AWARDS

The prizes in the Gazette
prose and verse competition
have been announced. The
following are winners for the
past four issues—

Prose—J. W. Whalen, ‘‘Tigers and Wanderers are Still
Deadlocked’’.

J. C. Thurrott, ‘‘Not Idle
Prattle,’’ (a letter.)

Verse—Don Murray, ‘‘Advice to a Skeptic.”’

Honourable mention: Gordon Dustan, ‘“‘Christmas.’’

The judges in the competition are Prof. J. W. Gowanloch, Prof. C. L. Bennet and
Arthur L. Murphy.

PROF. GOWANLOCH
AT ST. JOHN

GIVES EVIDENCE BEFORE
ROYAL COMMISSION

Scheduled to appear before the Royal
Commission, of Fisheries to give evidence on a number of important matters,
Prof. J. W. Gowanloch went to Saint
John on Monday. The life histories
of the important food fishes, the formation, character and activities of the
Permanent International Council for
the exploration on the sea, the probable
effects of trawling on sea floor fauna,
the oyster situation in the Maritimes
and a description of fisheries investigation now in progress in the Department of Zoology at Dalhousie University were some of the subjects discussed. On his return trip Professor
Gowanloch spoke at Mount Allison
University on ‘Science and the Fisheries.’

 

 

 

The Council of Students met last
Saturday to make the final arrangements
for Theatre Night.

 

The showing made by the Dal senior
Basketball five in their game with the
Y. M. C. A. last Friday was a revelation
to many and must have given no end of
satisfaction to Manager George MacIntosh who has been hearing anything
but encouraging reports re the future
of the hoop game for the Gold andBlack.
Although the Y aren't as strong as they
were last year, they didn’t suffer at all
compared to the losses sustained by the
Tigers. The slogan: “It’s an evil wind
that blows no good’ may be a consolation to N. S. Technical College
but it isn’t likely to console the Dal
fans any. The breeze that took Ed
Brown from Dal and dropped him in
Tech was about as good to Tech as it
was awful to Dal and that’s saying a lot
for the good fortune of Tech institute.
On paper the Technicians looked like
sure champs. On the floor they look
much more sure. Au Revoir Mr. Basketball Trophy, Looks like Dal’s athletic glory for the current year would
have to rest on the muddy and brilliant
games played by the gridiron stars.
Ah well the fight’s not over yet and
let’s not be Nova Scotians, I mean
pessimists. Anyway we still have Leigh
Miller and Gertrude Phinney carrying
our colors.

The Commerce Basketball five went
barnstorming down south last week.
Had a great time, lost to Yarmouth and
Liverpool. Motite—to advertise Commerce, result—thoroughly convinced they should have trimmed Liverpool, and
so they should have, and that Yarmouth could take the Dal Seniors
easily, and so they might.

 

When the Tiger hockey sextette for
the Acadia game was selected Manager
Eddie Murray received the welcome
news that he would have to drop a
couple of more players. Never mind
Eddie lots can pass exams, lots can
play hockey, and even tho’ few seem
to be able to do both, there's always the
chance that there may be a Santa Claus.

Plenty of Dal faces are seen every
Monday night at the Forum, Hockey
fans sure take their games seriously.
Looks like the theatre night at the
Strand will be minus a few well known
students who like that sort of thing
but, oh well, the lure of the game
maynot prove too much. Too bad it
isn’t some other night. There’s probably a reason, there usually is, so don’t
blame the organizers. Remember last
year when you had to make a choice of
a half a dozen activities which cried
aloud for your College Spirit to send
you there.

HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA, FEBRUARY 3rd, 1928

E

fe

  

id
Ota,

   

THE OLDEST
COLLEGE PAPER
IN AMERICA

  
   
 

gm,

 

ae
—
—
ae
=
ney
4
=

      
  

— === ae SSS

NO. 13

DALHOUSIE PLANNING BIG
DOINGS FOR MONDAY

| “TAKE MY ADVICE”

DALHOUSIE SONGS, SKITS AND SLIDES TO BE FEATURES
OF UNIVERSITY PARTY

\/
2°

| The Committee have bought out the

  

See g —— ke ee

 

  
   
  

Debating Teams
Are Announced

HEBB AND MacLEOD TO
DEBATE WITH McGILL

After long and deliberate consider
 

 

 

Strand for Monday night. The Carroll players are presenting a special pro
Debater

ation the Intercollegiate Debating Committee have announced the Dal. debaters. The committee consists of Prof.
Angus L. MacDonald, Dr. G. E. Wilson
and Dean J. E. Read; and made its
announcement through Roderick MacLeod president of Sodales Debating
Society. The McGill team is to consist of only two debaters, Andrew Olding
Hebb and Roderick MacLeod; three
men were chosen for the Intercollegiate
Team: Roy Lawrence, Don Grant and
Ben Guss. Fortunately or unforfun
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

gram, ““Take My Advice.” Glee Club
has arranged for comedy skits and Dalhousie wise-cracks during intermission.
A committee are busy planning for decorating the theatre. Cartoonists are
working on screen-slides of caricatures
of profs and students. The orchestra
will play Dalhousie songs. The Masonic Hall has been hired for dancing
after the show with Joe Mills and his
Orchestra. These are only a few of the
reasons why the 1928 Dalhousie Theatre
Night under the direction of the Stud
ately however, simultaneously with the
announcement came the resignation of
Ben Guss—member of Intercollegiate

ents Council will go down in history as
the biggest college event in years.
The Students Council at a special

 
 

Team last year.
Andrew Olding Hebb who is to lead

the McGill Team came to Dalhousie

from across the water, from Dartmouth,
in 1921, receiving his B. A., in '24.
“Andy” as he is favoritely known has
received the greatest literary honor the
college can bestow on a student—last
year he was editor-in-chief of the Gazette and as such displayed the keen
mind of a critic as well as the sympathetic sense of the psychologist. At the
trials this year the audience listened
to the reasoned judgments of Andrew
Olding Hebb, as he argued clearly,
convincingly and with the deliberateness
of one learned in the law. Andrew
Olding Hebb! Congratulations!
Roderick MacLeod veteran debater
came to Dal as Valedictorian and Scholarship Winner from the Pictou Academy. While at Dal he has received
his B. A. in 1926; he has been twice on
the Students’ Council; he has debated
against Mount Allison and against the
Imperial Team. At present he is president of Sodales Debating Society.
His record as a debater at Dalhousie
needs no further mention. _ Rod speaks
with ease and every word is chosen; his
manner is one of authority. This is a
great asset to the team.

In all, the McGill Team combines all
the clements that make for good debating and Dalhousie awaits, with a
justified hope, an oratorical victory.

THE INTERCOLLEGIATE TEAM

 

The full intercollegiate team, scheduled to debate against Acadia has not
been chosen yet as the judges find a
second trial necessary. Unless more
material turns out for this second trial
which will be held next Friday night
it will be necessary to forfeit to Acadia.
The call is out for undergraduates with
debating ability and it is hoped that
there will be an adequate response.

 

“‘Duke” MaclIsaac, Dent ’'23, is

practicing in Glace Bay, C. B.

Are Hall Girls
Extravagant?

INTERESTING DEBATE
COMING AT SODALES

It has come at last. A debate between Shirreff Hall and Pine Hill! J
wouldn't miss it for all the honor and
glory in the world! Women always
have the last word, do they? Well this is
their chance to prove it. ‘Do the luxurious surroundings (interior) of Shirreff
Hall foster an extravagant womanhood?” The ‘“Hallers” say ‘No!’
The Hillers say ‘Yes!’ The Hallers
and the Hillers will fight it out on Tuesday Feb. 7, at the Munro Room.

Grace Sutherland president of all
the Hallers—tall, blonde and ‘‘de bon
air’ will give us first hand information
on the subject.

Eileen Cameron her colleague, poetess and sportswoman will wield the
lofty weapons of speech on behalf of the
Hallers.

Watson MacNaught, Grand mogul
of Pine Hill and well suited to be , will
arque for the Hillers.

Wesley Stewart president of class
30 and secretary treasurer of the Engineers will also argue for the hard benchers.

This debate between the Epicureans
and Stoics is age-old and here at Dal
their direct descendants of Shirreff Hall
and Pine Hill respectively will philosophize with as much zeal as their ancestors.

 

  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
   
   
 
 
 
   
  

 

Debating Society who will support Hebb in the debate with
McGill University

 

ANNOUNCEMENT

 

A prize of a book has been
offered by Dr. A. M. MacMechan for the best quatrain description of life at Dalhousie
university. The competition
is open to all students at
the university. The contributions submitted will be printed in The Gazette during the
next four issues and the winner of the competition will be
announced in the following
number of the paper. Any
style except free verse is acceptable.

Basketball

THEOLOGY, LAW AND
ENGINEERS TRIUMPH IN
INTERFACULTY GAMES

Last Saturday’s Interfaculty Basketball produced some exciting games and
the winners, with one exception—Theology—were forced to extend themselves
considerably in order to come out on
top. Theology and Law each won
their second straight game and hold the
leads in their respective sections. The
Lawyers were on the heavy end of a
23—15 score in their tussle ,with the
Dents. Cyril Doyle and Jim Mitchell
collected the majority of their team’s
points. Both worked hard and they
were the pick of the winners. For the
Dents, who lost their second straight
game; Oldfield starred and was responsible for more than half of his
team’s total score. Theology trounced
the Freshmen entry 20—6. MHockin
alone scoring enough baskets to win the
game.

The feature of the Med vs Engineers
game was the durability of the Med.
five who played the entire game without
relief. The Engineers barely nosed
them out 13—11. Currie for the winners and Cheeseman for the losers were
the high scorers of the game.

Linu-ups and results:

Ist game:
2nd game: Law: Gavsie 4; Mitchell 8;
Redmond; C. Doyle 9; Wickwire; Outhit 2. °

Dents: Sullivan; Oldfield 8; D—?—2:

 

 

 

McMullen 3; Harris 2; Lubetski:
clough.
3rd game: Theology: Hockin 10;

McLean 6; Fraser 4; Tupper; Archibald;
Drew.

Freshmen: McDonald; O. Hewitt4;
J. Hewitt; Nickerson; Clarke 2; Laurence; Harriss; McDonald.

4th game: Meds: Hewitt 5; Cheeseman 6; Douglas; Miller; Ross.

Engineers: Currie 6; Beaton; MacKeagen 4; Hamilton 3; Bayne; Fisher;
Keating.

Kod MdcLéod, president of Sodales

meeting on last Saturday afternoon
decided on the date for the party and
appointed the following committee to
manage it: Jessie Gladwin, Aubrey
Tupper, Rae Garber, Bill Winfield,
Ralph Morton (chairman). The whole
Council is behind it and are taking an
active part on the program, ticket selling,
dance and decoration committees.

Tickets went on sale Monday morning
and already the boxes and block seats
for faculties are sold out. As the
theatre is only a small one students are
requested to get their tickets right away
as the S. R. O. sign will soon be hung up,
judging by the way the tickets have
been going the last few days.

Mr. Carroll and Mr. O'Connell, the
managers of the cozy little Sackville
St. theatre are both enthusiastic over
the idea of staging a real ‘‘college’’ night
and are co-operating in every way possible.

The Students Council will sit in the

lower box, but as yet it has not been
arranged definitely what groups will
occupy the other boxes, several societies having made enquiries. The
Arts and Science Society will sit at the
front of the theatre occupying the seats
from the stage back to row K with the
various classes sitting together. Engineering and Commerce will form a part
of this group also. Next will come the
Meds, Dents and Law Societies.
_ All seats on the ground floor and the
front of the balcony are reserved at
75cents with rush seats selling at 50
cents. This is the biggest college event
planned for years and with all the socleties co-operating it ought to be a big
Dal Night with lots of pep and fun.

Herbert Davidson is in charge of the
screen-slides and is drawing cartoons
and creations which will cause a riot
of fun if they are as good as the ones
he put on the screen at Glee Club and
Pine Hill a few years ago.

Graham Allen has charge of the intermission programs and so the audience
is assured of wit. Eddie Murray will
have a few things to say covering prominent men around the campus and Mr.
Allen will keep the crowd in a h
mood with a specially written skit with
himself doing comedy work.

A few contests have been arranged if
time will permit, one of which is a contest amongst the societies to see which
can give the heartiest song and yell.
So there will be something doing every
second of the time and oh boy!—beans!
and pea-shooters!

The dance committee have arranged
with Joe Mills and his orchestra to play
at the Masonic Temple from 11 p.m.
until 1 a. m. This dance ought to
bring to a close a fine night of fun. The
Students Council hope to see a large
representative audience present at
its big party next Monday night.

a. Cio:

On the evening of Tuesday the twentyfourth there was an S. C. A. supper in
the hall of St. Andrew’s Church. The
meeting was called to enable the members of the S. C. A. to be questioned
about conferences in general and the
Detroit conference in particular. After
the supper was served, and eated with
great relish, Bob Ross, the president of
the men’s branch spoke briefly on the
Detroit conference and asked for questions, which request was promptly fulfilled. The friendly attitude of all and
the enthusiasm of the foreign delegates
were stressed by the Dalhousie delegates.
The importance of conference to people
individually was discussed and the
meeting closed.

 

 

 

 
   

 

  
 
 

 
      
   
   
    
     
    
   
   
  
 

a

   

| (Pounded 1869)
. | FRED C. JENNINGS
Exchange Editor Sport Editor
: KATHERINE HANIFEN J. W. WHALEN
Associate Editors
BEN GUSS

| EN GUSS _
- W. GORDON DUSTAN
“MARGARET ELLS

 - Reporters

pO HEBB
R. A. DONAHUE

"C.R. K. ALLEN.

_Circulation Manager
S. W. ARCHIBALD

_ Business Manager
RALPH S. MORTON
52 Quinpool Rd.

Phone Sac. 304
Subscription Rate. $1.00 per year

 

‘Compulsory Physical Training

~~ Elsewhere in this issue will be found opinions of several individuals at Dalhousie University on the subject of compulsory
a fe he in ayaa ee, es hae ee b : - h h
physical training. The opinion seems to be unanimous that suc

-_a course should be inaugurated and that such a system would be of

great benefit to the students. The president of the institution has

-__ expressed himself in favor of physical training. ; Are
~~ ‘There is no doubt that a compulsory course of physical training
___-would be of great benefit to all concerned. Exercise is the antidote
aie to the deleterious effects of such sedeutary work as application to
av ~~ books implies. It is common knowledge, that, unless there is some
‘urge to indulge in physical exercise, it is apt to be greatly, even
‘totally neglected. The football, basketball or hockey player has
_ this urge in the thrills of the game itself, but these students comprise
a minority. The remainder have not sufficient incentive to indulge
__ in physical recreation and consequently they suffer.
With compulsory physical training enforced at Dalhousie the
‘students would obtain the much needed exercise and the health of
the average student would be greatly improved or ensured. In___ dulging in recreation would enhance the desire for healthy exercise
and would encourage students to turn out for athletic honors.
+ This would have its affect on sports at Dalhousie. It would increase the material for the different teams and would greatly im“ prove the condition of the members of the squads. :
pe We have at the university a gymnasium, not the best in the
world, nevertheless a gymnasium. Apparatus for physical exer__* cises is being installed at the present time. The only way in which
te this apparatus can attain the end for which it is installed is to have
regular courses in physical training, in which the students as a whole

me. will take part. Compulsory P. T..seems to be the only method. to

<.

ai
“

  

 
 
 
    
  
  
   
 
 
 

>.

¥

te
a)

 
 

a

Ti
®.

   
  

attain this end. ote
_———s Are the students as a whole of this one mind. The Gazette would
welcome arguments either for or against the system.

i: _ The Trial Debates

J 5
> - oe} E .

When the trial debates took place in the Munro Room on
Monday evening, January 23, there was only a total of eight names
on the slate of aspirants for debating honors. Considering that
- Dalhousie has an enrollment of 840 of which over 500 are male stud
ents the turn out was anything but satisfactory. Where is the
> trouble? Are those in charge of the activity too lax in their adminA istration? It would seem not. Adequate advertisement of the

; event was carried out, including signs, notices and personal inquiry.
Ample time was given for preparation as notices were posted before
the students left for their Christmas vacation.

Perhaps the honor at stake is not great enough to appeal to the
students. To represent Dalhousie University in a debate with
‘4 McGill or Acadia, to lock horns with the ability of two representative Canadian colleges, should be incentive enough to any student
-_ with debating ability to give of his best.

It may be that the students are so heavily laden with courses

of study that they can find no time for outside work. This phase
of the situation would hardly hold water, for if we look over the
list of those who spoke at the trials we find that there is only one
not registered in a professional faculty—a faculty in which the
hours of actual class work exceed those of students in Arts or Science
in the greater number of cases.
aru Of course the law students are to the fore, and rightly so but it
a should not be to the exclusion of the other faculties, especially Arts.
A student registered in Arts has or should have the ambition to
a obtain a liberal general education.
Under this head in capital letters should be included debating,
the art of speaking, rather, the art of speaking with conviction and
clarity. It is a primary essential of the modern young man to be
able to discuss lucidly the ordinary events of the world about him.
That is what education should do for him. If it does not accomplish this end, then his education is incomplete. The mind is a storeise house of ideas; the port of exit for these ideas is the
| mouth. It would be considered utter folly to construct a grain
elevator at a port and then refuse to make port facilities such that
laden ships could not move out of the harbor. In the same way an
education without development of the powers of expression is a
total loss.

More encouragement should be given to debating and public
speaking in the Arts school. Short debates included in the course
of class work would add much to the interest and benefit of the
routine work. History, economics, sociology and english lend themselves ideally to the system. The professors should encourage expression of ideas, instead of considering the students human dicta
ey
;

1

 

 

phones. Speaking from the prestige of their authority they should
encourage the students to take an active part in student organBr izations, expecially those, as Sodales, which will bring great benefits

to them for the years to come.

The students themselves should realize that there are a great

number of benefits to be obtained from debating and also that cer
tain responsibilities are upon them as students of the university.

Interest in an activity spells success for that activity. Lack of

Br _ interest has the opposite affect. The university and the students
of a university are judged by their representatives who visit other

       
  
 

An active interest in the trial debates lead to an increase
_ in the number of candidates for positions on the team and to a truer
resentation of the ability of Dalhousie University.

 

La

SES eT

DALHOUSIE

 

Discriminaton?
To the Editor of the
Dalhousie Gazette.

Dear Sir:

In the last issue of the Gazette I
notice the following two lines: “Ben R.
Guss, member of last eid inter-collegiate team—lI also spoke.” :

I was present at the trial debates
when he spoke, and [I should say he
did ‘‘spoke’’. The report of the trial
debates containing the above two lines
having been written by Ben Guss, he
quite naturally was unable to do justice
to himself. Yet justice Ben Guss deserves, and with your kind permission,
I shall give it to him in plain language—
and perhaps say a few things extra.

Ben Guss spoke like a master orator,
like a judicious thinker with a well
balanced mentality. After the rather
stale and lifeless speeches made by those
who preceded him his address was exceedingly refreshing. He spoke unhesitatingly, in fluent and correct English, leading masterfully to his conclusions, making each point perfectly
clear before proceeding to the next,
building up a splendid edifice of well
seasoned argument to prove his case.

Sir, I was parorchand Faster skeptical
no the Dal side of the McGill issue, but
ajter hearing Ben Guss I went home
convinced that it was indeed most unfortunate, nay, outrageous that Canada
should not have a free hand in amending her constitution. We were very
fortunate, [ thought, in having one like
Ben Gus to lead either the McGill
or the Acadia team to victory.

The teams are now posted. To Ben
Guss the leadership of the McGill team?
Oh no! He is not even acceptable as
the still missing third. Is he leader of
the Acadia team? No such luck—or
judgment. Roy Lawrence is the leader
and Roy Lawrence, having some judgment, would not hesitate to admit that
as a debater he is in no wise equal to
Ben Guss who debated so effectively
against St. F. X. last year; and Roy
Lawrence has, no doubt, also enough;
sense of humour to admit that his
English is, to say the least, somewhat
queer, whereas that of Ben Guss is
exceptionally good.

Why this discrimination against Ben
Guss?—He is a Jew. That is why.
He is of the race of our Lord and Saviour;
of the race that ever sinceHis advent has
led the world in art, in music, in literature, in science, in commerce, in statesmanship—in all lines of human _ endeavour. Ben Guss being one of that
much persecuted race of leaders we, of a
less virile and progressive race, discriminate against him.

All this, dear Editor, flavours of the
dark ages—But of course it is now
well known that one must go to univsesities to find the most ancient trad
| itions.

  

 
  

|The Ten Dollar Fee

To the Editor ‘‘Gazette’’

Sir:—Kindly afford me a little space
to discuss a matter of considerable interest to the student body, even though
I am only a ‘“Med."’, and have not attained to that standard of style and rhetoric
customary in these pages. The Gazette
has just announced that the Council
favors raising its fee to $10. Many are
understood not to be as interested as
they might be, because they are in the
graduating class and will not be here to
carry the burden they are so ready
to place on the rest of their fellow students. The Council no doubt are trying
to meet the financial situation by obviously the easiest way, by asking for
more money. The fact that students
in other colleges pay this amount is
irrelevant. It is purely a question for
local consideration. Dalhousie alone
must be the judge.

Granted that the gate receipts are
not equal to past years, it must be borne
in mind that the weather has been very
unfavorable, there ha& been no hockey
team, and the money is not available.
In former years the fees were $5. and
yet Dalhousie was able to produce
rugby, hockey and _ basketball. teams
second to none, although the student
activities were almost as many and the
student body much smaller. But whether the expenditures of the present
year are justified or not, why raise the
fee? Why not meet the
situation by more economical administration? At least before voting on
this important matter the students
have a right to a detailed statement
in the Gazette of how the money is
expended and an estimate for the coming year.

Medical and Dental students, because of their longer courses, pay from
$42 to $49, where formerly they paid
only $30 to $35. The Council is now
proposing from $60 to $70, while an
affiliated student would pay $80. Arts
and Science are similarly affected. What
compensating benefit will be student
who is not an athlete nor a debater
receive? and there are many such.

This is not written for the mere sake
of writing, but one does not readily
acquiesce in binding heavier burdens
on the student body unless some more
obvious advantage is to be gained thereby.

C. G. MacKinnon

 

In conclusion, allow me to-congratulate you on your recent stand with
regard to the free expression of student
views in the Dalhousie Gazette.

Sincerely yours,
P. L. H. Muschamp,
(Arts ‘28)

KID GLOVES
By Chloride of Mercury

(Continued from last week)

but slow as if he’s doped and Jack slips
aside and staggers across the ring. Jack
just manages to keep away from by
instinctive boxing and after what seems
like a month the bell rings.

We manage to put a little life in him
and he weathers the ninth by taking
things very easy. And then, at last,
we find out what it’s all about. Bud
comes tearing down the aisle, taking the
steps six at a time, looking wilder than
I’ve ever seen him and between gasps
he tells us where he’s been. Jack's
stretched out on his stool and he gets
cold with rage as he listens.

Bud'd been suspicious all along which
didn’t help a bit. But as he was sitting down by the ring before the lights
went out he was gazing away out in the
distance, thinking, and his eyes happened
to fall on this fellow up in the rush seats
and he jumped. It was Tony Galatti
and only a week ago he'd told Bud he
was going to be in Watson's corner.
Bud thinks that Tony may have been
kicked out, and having been handed the
raw, may be willing to talk, if there if
anything to talk about. Long shot, os
course, but up he goes. Tony was in
fine fettle being even more oiled than
usual. He hadn't gotten the boot but
wanted to see the fight with the crows
and place a few little bets.

“IT see,’ says Bud.
Watson money?”

“Wadda ya mean, Watson money?
I’m backin’ Watson.’

“Huh?” says Bud, “I thought you

“Find much

were in with Watson’s crowd? Are
they trying to double cross you?”’
‘‘What tha hell?” ‘yaps Tony.
Bud leans over confidentially. ‘You

know this fight is fixed for the champ
of course?” :

‘“‘Garn!

“All this talk ahout Watson and
Watson money is just a bluff to get the
suckers so the champ’s backers can
make a little coin for a change. I’m
surprised that you........

Tony was impressed but not convinvinced. “Come offit. I wus wid de
Sailor when dey fixed ‘im,’’ and he!
bites his tongue, like he’s said too much.

Bud takes a long shot. -‘“Y'mean
when they doped him?”

“How'd ya know?” gasps Tony.

“That's all around. It’s part of the
story. He's supposed to be fixed that
they can't knock him out. All a fake
to get the money. Trying to double,
cross you, eh?”’

“Gee, I tot dey wus on de level when
dey fixed it. De scientific guy wus
dere. Dey wouden lemme in but dey
sed he jabbed de Sailor all over wid a
needle, like ya do wid coke. Dey sed
it wus a new stunt—fixed his noives
so ya couden K. QO. 'im."’

““Uhah,”” says Bud.’ They did that

to make the story sound better. Watch
out for your coin,’’ and he comes tearing
down with the news to us.

Of course we didn't get the whole
story just then but Bud squeezes as
much as he can into a minute.

“So that’s why he didn't mind when
I banged his elbow against the corner
post in the clinch,’’ mutters Jack and
he comes up for th,tenth cursing something terrible but not able to do a thing
about it. We persuade him to save up
for a few rounds for one Jast crack at the
damned crook but we feel it’s no use.
He's done and it'll be mostly good luck
if the Sailor doesn’t get him with another smack and finish things. But
Jack keeps going and when the bell ends
the fourteenth he's feeling a whole lot
peppier but glum as a grave We all
are. We don’t know of any rules
against doping a guy. We may ride
him out of the country for it after but
that won't save the dough.

We're as good as clean busted and not
feeling much like making the best of it.
And then there are Jack’s backers with
all kinds of odds to pay.

The Sailor is grinning in his corner.
He’s pretty well doped but he’s enough
sense to know the way things lie.
“Oh gad,” groans Jack. ‘The dirty
cur!"’ ;

There’s a big scuffle behind us, a cop
yells, and who but Iggy leaps into the
ring and comes jumping over Jack. He
wasn't used to waiting that long for
Jack so I guess he decided to come out
and investigage for himself. There’s
half a length of chain hanging from his
collar. We all grab at him but nothing
doing. He's licking Jack’s knees and

with a couple of growls he informs us| |

that he’s quite content to stay there.
And then the bell goes.

“Out boy,” says Jack as he jumps to
his feet, ‘“Go way, Iggy?”

Now Iggy is usually a pretty obedient
pup but I guess the excitement of the
crowd went to his head as it sometimes
does with people who are supposed to
have a lot more sense than dogs. He
chases right after Jack, his chain clanking. .Watson comes hoeing in and takes
a swipe at Jack and Iggy nips him right
on the ankle. Khe ref steps in to hold
the fighters apart and hollers at me to
take the this that and the other thing dog
away. But doped or not Watson feels
that nip and he saves me the trouble by
giving poor Iggy a boot that hurls him
through the ropes.

“That's it,” yells someone. ‘Throw
the cur out of the ring.”’

Iggy’s wreathing and yelping on the
aig and Jack looks at me. He's seeing
red.

“Did you hear that?” he hollers, and
there's a light in his eye like Columbus |
must have had when he sighted land,

   
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
  
 

  

>

‘eae

{| Che First Book of Bunce

 

CHAPTER 6

1. Now in the land of Dal there
were many who beat on their breasts
and cried out: “Oh woe! Lamentions!"’
for they were fed up.

2. And they said unto each other:
“Lo, there is no excitement whatsoever
in the land of Dal. Where is the Kolij
Spirit?”

3. And it came to pass that these
remours came to the ears of the high
priest, whose name was Ran Kin, and
he was a man blessed with foresight and
ingenuity.

4. And Ran Kin laid the news hefore the great god So with a supplication.
that something might be done to enlighten the people and make them gay
of heart.

5. And the god So gave a message
unto Ran Kin saying, ‘‘Call ye together
some of the council and other people of
the land of Dal, and say unto them that
we will have an orgy of paegeantry and
dancing.

6. And this was done and the people
saw that it was good.

7. And it was decided that the people
of Dal should have an orgy, the like of
which had never been heard of in that
country.

8. Now the plans kad not gone far
when Bill Win spoke forth saying: ‘Let
us make it a really big evening. Let us
go to the Temple of the Stone-Workers
and dance to the drums and the saks.”’

9. And the Council said: ‘Yea,
verily, it is good.”

10. -And it was decided.

12. But the cry arose, ‘‘Where shall
we see the paegeantry!"’ and many were
sore confounded.

13. Now there were in the wilds of
Haligonia a band of strolling players
whose leader was James who is surnamed Kharel.

14. And the council said, ‘Verily
let us journey forth, yea all the people
of Dal and see these mummers.

15. And it was decided.

16. And the news was conveyed to
the people and they rejoiced and their
hearts were light.

17. And they said: ‘‘This is So's
doing. All praise to the great god So.

 

Med Dance A
Huge Success

VOTED BEST IN YEARS BY
THOSE IN ATTENDANCE

To Art Ross and his committee must
go the credit of staging the best Dal
dance in years. From start to finish
the Medical dance was a _ complete
success and bigger and better than ever.

The decorations were the most tasteful and elaborate that we have seen for
some time, the music was hot and the
punch cool. But it was the attention
to. detail that we admired: non-spillable
refreshments, courteous bell-hops, durable programs AND enough punch to
last to the end of the evening.

The guests of honour were: Dr. and
Mrs. MacDougal, Dr. and Mrs. Cameron, Dr. and Mrs. Kenneth Mackenzie, Dr. and Mrs. MacLaren, Dr. and
Mrs. Jameison, Dr. Lessel.

only a whole lot wilder.

I don’t get his drift but Bud catches
on. ‘‘The ropes seem a bit slack on
the far side,”” he cries back. ‘Go it,
Jack, oh go it, boy!”

Just then the ref steps aside and Jack
goes it. I thought I’d seen him fighting
mad often but he was never like this.
He tears in like a cyclone and sweeps
the Sailor right across the ring. Fixing
the fight was bad enough, losing all his
roll was worse, but to kick his dog!
Jack’s got Watson against the ropes
on the far side. He doubles him up with
a left to the stomach that would have
killed an ordinary man. And hve
I get onto the idea. He steps back and
charges, both arms swinging, and Watson |
crashes through the ropes.
terrible scramble down
notice that the Sailor’s backers are
occupying that section. They lift him
to his feet and push him back as the ref
gets to eight.

‘The other side,”’ I scream, ‘‘the other
side, Jack!”

Everybody's gone crazy. The stands
are one mad roar. I'm pointing and
yelling frantically and Jack looks at me
and nods. In he goes. At this moment Iggy comes to his senses and starts

There's a
below and I

February 3rd, 1928

 

Professor Gowanloch left here last
Tuesday to attend a conventon in St.
John. He will return tonight.

*

Many Dal students are wondering
why a technical college such as N. S.
Tech., find it necessary to use Halifax
kittens in their research work.

* *

Black and gold—‘Glory for Dalhousie."". Not an American College
“pep’’ meeting but just a jolly college
get-to-gether. Be at the Strand next
Monday night. The Students’ Council
are going to throw a party.

Dalhousie has a divided student body.
Very seldom do we get an opportunity
of coming together in one great body.
Next Monday night Forrest Building,
Studley and Shirreff Hall will gather at
the Strand—let it be a grand gathering
of the Dalhousie family.

“Sim” Gass, Med ‘25, is with the
Rockefeller Institute, Montgomery, Alabama. With him is his wife, nee Mary
Mactntyre, who graduated in Law in
oe * * *

Seymour Gordon, B. A. '26, is acting
as vice-principal of the Bridgewater
school.

* * *

Homer Norton, B. A. '24, M. A. ’25,
is pursuing his studies at Oxford. Mr.
Norton was P. E. Island Rhodes Scholar
for the year 1925.

* * *

Gordon Frame, is doing laboratory
work with the Eastern Hat Company in
Truro.

* * *

The Maritime Debating Team, of
which Ernest Howse of this university
is a member, defeated Bishop’s College
Lennoxville, in the first debate of the
schedule.

* * *

It is interesting to note that Prof.
Angus. L. MacDonald, professor of
law at Dalhousie has drafted a bill to be
submitted to the Nova Scotia Legislature; this bill will clear up the present
situation with regard to transfer of land
by married women. Prof. MacDonald
is working under the auspices of the
Nova Scotia Bar Association. It is
gratifying to see that our professors are
doing well for themselves.

* *

FEW FAILURES HERE

 

The report of the mid-season examinations of the College of New York
City should be of interest to Dalhousie
students, especially at this season of the
year. It states that out of a total
enrollment of 4,228 students only thirtyone failed in their studies. Does this
mean that 99.25% of the student body '
were able to satisfy the professors that ,
they belonged to the “intelligeritia’” |
in all their subjects? One of three things
must be the explanation. The standard
of the students must be exceptionally
high; the standard of the college must
be exceptionally low; or the professors
must be exceptionally easy to please.
How would Dalhousie compare with the
figures contained in this report?

 

 

for the ring again. I dive for his chain
and wind it round my wrist. He’s up
on his hind !egs and pulling so hard I can
feel the metal cutting through my arm.
But I don’t carea bit. I'm shouting my
head off, though you couldn’t have
heard me three feet away with the racket
there is. The crowd in the rush seats
are beginning to sweep down and close
in. The whole stadium is mad.

But wilder than the worst of the
crowd, fiercer than the dog who’s drawing the blood from my arm every time
he jerks or pulls, is Jack. He isn’t
like a human being at all but some
animal out for gore. The Sailor backs
away, trying to cover up but he might
as well resist the spring of a lion. Against
the ropes again, Jack charges him and
through he goes. A crashing of seats
rises above the din and there’s an awful
tangle of arms and legs which don’t
help the Sailor a bit. There all for
Jack on that side of the ring. He's still
to get untangled when the ref barks ten
and pushes up Jack’s hand as the crowd
swamps in upon us.

As I| tell the young fellows here when
I put them through their paces, it took
more than fists to win a fight, in the old
davs.

 

ae |

Our aim is to give a Musical Service so
complete that when you think of music
you naturally think of Phinneys.
Sheet Music Department we specialize in
music for teachers and students.
orders will,
ful attention.

  
   
 

In our

Your
at all times, receive our care
  

 
  
    

T e largest and best equipped Beauty Parlors east of

  
 

Montreal—and only then out- done i in size! All our operators
are graduates — experts — in
pont ase of Beauty Culture,

| equipment is modern
‘to the smallest detail.

Your patronage is solicited,
and we warrant complete satfl isfaction from a manicure to
oe) ae cea aes a wave.

 
       
       
 

a

=

      
   
 
    

‘The WOOD BROS Co.
Limited .

~~

what
they want it.

they

ed

  

 

always delivered when
promised at the

“NOVA PRINT Ltd |

227-229 Hollis Street

eg he hn Se eae
rail ee ,

As Usual

The best in Ice Creams, Confectionery and Meals, as well
as courtesy, efficent service and
attractive surroundings are to
be had at

The Green Lantern

‘PIANOS, VICTROLAS,

Small Musical  Instruments and Victor Records

We invite you to join our

FICTION LENDING LIBRARY

2 cents per day

McDonald Music Co.

93 Barrington St. Halifax

   
 
 
 
   
  
    

Say it with Flowers, Say ti with ours
THE HOME OF

is Pie Cut Flowers & Potted Plants
; We make up Funeral Designs,
also Wedding Bouquets. We also
do Table Decorating. We are the
only members of the T. F. D.
Florists. We can wire Flowers
to all parts of the world.

| The Roserp

oh 8 BLOWERS ST.
a Phone Sac. 3321-3322
Night Phone Sac. 1934

 
 

COLLEGE COLORS

We have a good supply of our
ae distinctive DAL Stationery.
ie Neat size crest, die stamped in
os yellow and black on high class
Bec: parchment paper, club size, with
: envelopes stamped to match, suitable for ladies or gentlemen.

ce Sold in bulk only, buy any quan”
PY tity you require.

Faulkner’s Book Store
16 Spring Garden Road

 

      

YELLOW CAB

LIMITED

SAC. 4444

Halifax’s Only Metered
Service

    
       
      
        
       
      
 

Same Rates 24 Hours.
Two travel for same as one.
More than two, 2Ucentsextra,

        
        
  
   
     
    
  
  
   
   
 
  
  
  

Dalhousie Stationery |

24 Sheets Writing Paper
stamped with the Dal; housie Crest and 24 En| -  velopes to match.

EP Special 50c a Box

—_ #f Connolly’s Book Shop |
Re _ 487 BARRINGTON ST. i
Opposite St. Paul's Church

     

    

  

: SEE WALLACE

OPTOMETRIST AND OPTICIAN
@ Y.M.C. A. BLDG. HALIFAX, N. 8

- |
at

            
   
 

| cussed for some time.
system with success, others have found it a failure.
Dalhousie among them, have not yet adopted the system. Below |:
will be found a number of ideas on thesubject expressed by different
individuals about the university. All seem to agree that compulsory P. T. would be a benefit to the students and the university.
The Gazette invites the students and also the professors to submit
It is a question of importance and, as

  

  
  

iness is to give customers
want—when |

   

| JOB AND. SOCIETY. PRINTING |

 
         
 
     
     
     
   
 
    
   
  
 

their ideas on the subject.

Are You in Favour of Compulsory P.T.?

The matter. of Compulsory Physical Training has been disA number of universities have adopted the
A number,

such, should be treated with seriousness and thought.

| PRESIDENT
A. STANLEY MacKENZIE

 

I am very glad that the Gazette is
taking an interest in the question of
The
examination of recruits during the war
showed. conclusively that many seemingly well young men were suffering
from defects remediable by proper
forms of exercise, and many men owe
their present state of physical fitness
to the compulsory training which they

whi In order
#| to see the need for its adoption at Dal|| housie one has only to think of the
| number of students who drop out of college life on account of tubercular or
other organic troubles which could
have been detected and perhaps forefended by proper attention to whole
physical training for all students.

received ile on service.

some physical exercise.
A. Stanley MacKenzie,
President.

Dalhousie Uoiverity:

W. E. STIRLING, Physical Instruct
or

 

There are several reasons for comi | pulsory physical training for first and
| second year students at Dalhousie Uniy| | ersity.

Ist. Dal

Judging from the many comments
}| overheard recently among the senior

students, who seem fully convinced that
compulsory physical training for their
younger sisters and brothers, would be
very beneficial, both for the student as
well as the University.

2nd. Keeping Fit.

Many young students entering Dalhousie, from shyness or lack of ambition, fail to register in any of the gymnasium classes which are available at the
Studley Gym. and thus neglect their

physical training.
ord. Corrective Physical Culture.

Many of the incoming students have
minor physical defects and if corrected
in time would have no injurious effect
on the student, but if neglected, may
lead to something serious.
4th. Successful Treatment.

Many physical defects can be success
| fully treated in the gym. Compulsory

Physical Training, would enable the
Instructor to get in touch with students
having physical defects; exercises could
be prescribed to correct the fault and
give the student an opportunity to
develop a splendid physique.

5th. eer Teams Would Ben
efit

This early training for young students
would no doubt, uncover splendid material for our University Teams. Often a
student is too late in finding out what
line of athletics, he should take up to be
of much use to the University while at
school.
6th. College Spirit.

This compulsory get-to-gether for
two hours a week during the first two
years at college, would certainly go a
long way toward inspiring the student
to co-operate in the interest of their
University.

PRESIDENT OF CLASS ’31

 

The first year student at’ Dalhousie
soon becomes acquainted with the fact
that the University lacks an adequate
program of physical training. True it is
that Dalhousie is well represented by
those on the rugby, basketball and hockey teams, but only a comparatively
small number of students turn out for
these teams. The great majority of
students are never seen on the Gym
floor except when a dance is being held.

The idea that the Gym is for the sole
use of those athletically inclined is all
too prevalent and the introduction of
Compulsory Physical Training would
soon dispel this notion. No doubt

many would object to its being compulsory but this would seem to be the
only way of reaching those who are too
self-conscious or indolent to turn out
for physical recreation under an optional
system. All authorities agree on the
advantages of a physical education and
the inauguration of such a system would
certainly round out “‘the life of a little

college.”
A. E. NICKERSON,

 

HELEN G. ROBERTSON

 

It would solve a large number of the
difficulties of a manager, if physical
training were made compulsory. As a
result, the teams would be a great deal
better, due to having more material
and a larger attendance at the practices.
If such a rule applied to new students
coming into the University latent
ability would be found which otherwise
might not have been discovered, and
would benefit both the student and the
teams. Also, a great many people who
have had no opportunity of participating
in sports would then be able to enjoy

trem on an equal basis with other begin-!

nehs.

—Helen G. Robertson.
EE

Congratulations to Prof. James M,
MacDonald who was married to Miss
Marie Lorette LeBlanc in Cambridge,
Mass., on January 5. ‘‘Big Jim,’’ who
was professor of Commerce at Dalhousie
for two years now holds that position
at St. Francis Xavier's University.

   
 
   
   
  
   
 
   
   
   
  
   
 
 

Seniors Students strong for
Ti

MANAGER, DAL TRACK TEAM

——

against compulsory physical training.

training for its students.

I do not
physical training should apply to all
students but rather to all first and
second year students, for, after that I
think they will.realize the benefit of it
and turn out on their own accord.
the hours in the gym are made inter
esting, the students will be sure to come
back; the main thing is to get them to do

something they like to do.

The students should be divided off
into sections according to their physique, because’ the amount of physical
student

training required for one
would often be injurious to another.

adopted in

certain amount of exercise clears the

more would not only make the brain

foggy but would also wear the student

down.

System is the keynote of success, but
better have no system at all than to be

the victims of an unhappy system.
In this the advantage of a good phy
sical instructor who is interested in his
Many hours are

work’ is a great aid.
wasted in the gym under the present
system but, if a proper system of compulsory physical training were adopted,
time could be saved and used to much
greater advantage.

Leigh Miller.

a
PRESIDENT OF CLASS ’29

 

To have good health is to possess
nature’s greater gift to mankind. Without our health our education is not
worth anything. Since we are compelled to take certain subjects to increase our knowledge and to develop
our brain, why are we not compelled
to take exercise to better our health
and to develop our bodies?

There are now a series of lectures on
Personal Hygiene given to the Freshmen that are considered of no value to
anyone. Let compulsory physical training take the place of these lectures and
the authorities will accomplish a real
good.

Physical training does not mean only
gymnasium classes, but includes participation in any sport.

not be known. We need new material for our teams at Dalhousie and
something must be done. Why not

‘give compulsory physical training a try

anyway?

Rae McCunn.
i
E. A. CAVVICCHI.

The question of Compulsory Physical

 

Training which has been raised at Dal-|]

housie seems to me to be of great importance to our College.

Bodies as well as minds need constant care and training to keep them
fit, and in seven months of hard brain

work the bodies of the majority are} |

absolutely neglected. Of course those
students who try to, and who make the
College teams, in any sport are keeping
their bodies in pace with their minds.
But one sport covers only a small portion of the year. After that the tendency is to let the body rest. If physical
training were compulsory students wouId be prepared to undertake any sport,
at any time. There would be no question of not being in trim. There would
be no need, either, to blame the weather
for set-backs in the out door sports.

For those who take no interest in
athletics at all, such a course in physical
training would surely be a benefit. In
this age—when the activities, as walking,
riding and the general work, which kept
our ancestors fit, have been replaced by
mechanical devices, to such an extent
that, the only exercise the non-athletic
student gets is dancing—healthy, supervised exercise would be nothing short
of an unrecognized blessing.

Jn my opinion a compulsory course

in physical training at Dalhousie, with } }

the proper amount of facilities and in
structors and with the proper medical |}
attention, would raise the calibre of the |}

students in every way.
E. A. Cavvicchi.
—_—_—_—_—_—_—_—_—_—————A-<-__.0

FRESHMEN FAVOUR RAISE IN|/|

STUDENTS FEE

 

The Freshmen Class placed itself on
record as favouring a raise in the Stud
ent Fee. At a representative meeting ||

of twenty persons held last Tuesday

class 31 voted unanimously in favor of | }

a ten dollar fee.

The Council of Students wished to
hear the voice of the Student Body
before changing the fee. Class 31 is the
first to give its opinion.

The Students’ Council will meet in
the near future to deal with the entire

matter.
=—P, O. H.

   
 
   
   
  
   
   
   
     
    
  
   
 
   
   

There is much to be said both for and

It is my opinion that a college will
have a higher standing if it recognises
the value and the necessity of physical

think that compulsory

If

Thus if compulsory physical training is
Dalhousie each student
should be studied carefully and be put
into the proper section; for, while a

brain and builds up the body; a little

In this way] }
material for our college teams might] |
be brought out which otherwise would] |

 

_DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

The Rise of the

Skirt

 

In the beginning was the fig leaf, and
with this inauspicious origin Carlyle’s
statement may readily be corroborated,

“that the first purpose of clothes was
not warmth or decency but ornament.’
On several million occasions the conclusion has been drawn that women are
fickle! This decision is undoubtedly
associated with an astounding degree of
veracity inthe vicissitudes of fashions
which have characterised the development of the skirt from its leafy progenitor to its present limited proportions.

Human nature has undergone but a
slight metamorphosis and as no particular style now remains in vogue for
any extended period, so no fashion remained long unchanged among our
early ancestors. They soon became
dissatisfied with arborial trimmings
and sought refuse from the prying
glances of the stone age men by arraying themselves in skirts of fur. The
mode of envelopment provided a discreet and decorous concealment, but
naturally enough, failed to satisfy all the
famale whimsicalities. The society
moduls then decreed that the element of
concealment in these gowns was too
emphatically stressed and should be
tempered with an appropriate degree of
revelation. (Really the modern flapper
is not nearly so modern as some people
whould have us believe!) Not a dissenting voice was heard and our delighted
gaze next rested on the grass skirt.
But we cannot linger on this didactical
phase of the shirt’s development—
neither space nor words are available
to do it justice.

For a long time no radical changes
were introduced and a review of all the
intervening types of skirts up to and
including the nineteenth century, would
reveal nothing of an original or startling
nature. During the Victorian regime
the sight of a woman's ankle was sufficient cause for a poem, but in modern
times even the next joint fails to arouse
the poetical inspiration. Since the
advent of the twentieth century the
upcreep of the skirt progressed slowly
but surely, and though the half way
mark has long since been reached and
passed, yet there is no noticable hesitancy in the upward movement. Mankind
is now asking itself, ‘will history be repeated’?

—J. M. B. '29.
———$<$<$§$<———_____—_.
Animal Spirits.

 

The Montreal tramway service is
suing McGill University for $1,000
damages done by students who painted
steet-cars during various periods of
celebrations. The McGill Daily believe
it possible that some of its present or
former students may paint cars fora
living, if the Montreal cars ever are
painted—‘‘which we doubt’’—but it
adds that on the whole McGill graduates
are not fortunate enough to get jobs
as skilled painters, usually resorting to
professorships, or employment in in
surance offices.
The New Student.

MODERN

PRINTING

MODERATE
CosT

TG, allen, & Co

124 & abe Granville —.

WINNERS mth

For 60 years the REACH Trade
Mark on Sporting Goods has been
a mark of perfection. No matter
what your favorite sport may be, we
can supply you with equipment that
will help you play the game with
the best that’s in you.

CRAGG BROS., CO.,LTD.

Hardware and Sporting Goods
HALIFAX, N.S

 

Our High oi Standard |

makes our Low Price
Doubly Attractive

SUITS, OVERCOATS |
FULL DRESS and |
TUXEDO, at one

price

MADE-TO-MEASURE |
Tip Top Tailors |
THE STUDENTS’ TAILORS

TRAMWAY BUILDING
Barrington and Sackville Sts

 

  

asec Nee earner eee elec Ti nach oon nineteen eee eee ee ee 7 = E aa ne
—— = * ms i a a
Go a ic = x _—* 3
» =

~a party may be a bore — the lady of

one’s choice may be dancing with another

-yet there's still a morsel of satisfaction in
the aaa festivities for the man

 

CLASS
JEWELLERY

We enjoy the distinction of
making practically all Dalhousie
Class Jewellery.

We appreciate the trust placed
in us by the Dalhousie students
and in turn always assure them
of our very best service.

HENRY BIRKS & SONS
LIMITED

Balifax Chronicle

AND

The
Halifax Daily Star
The

Diamond Merchants HALIFAX

 

fastest growing

CES PASTEL
NOTICE!

Special Students’ Discount
a

CONDONS

Mien’s Store

newspapers in
Nova Scotia

 

 

 

 

| NOVA SCOTIA
NURSERY

1088to 1090 Barrington St.
—THREE PHONES-—

Cut Flowers, Bouquets and all
Floral Work.

(ieorge F. Power

Cigars, Cigarettes, Tobacco
SMOKERS’ REQUISITES

of every Description

    
    

—Also—

  
 

Cards, Souvenirs of Halifax
Majestic Bldg.
HALIFAX, 
      
 
   
   
 
     

 

 

 

 

  

Bob Johnson’s

TWO BOBBER SHOPS
FIRST CLASS SERVICE

The Home of the Shingle
MAJESTIC THEATRE

BUILDING
and
Corner GEORGE and
BARRINGTON STS,
Don’t Neglect Your Appearance

~

   
   
 
  
  
  
    

To readers of

The Dalhousie Gazette

Kinley's

THE REXAL
DRUG STORE

For everything in

 

Winter-Burns Ltd

Exclusive Agents for

 

Drug Store Needs Society Brand Clothes

 

499 Barrington Street
Phone Sack. 61

Now Showing New Fall Styles
oe
Correct Dress for Students

BARRINGTON STREET

  

437

 

HE PRINTING DE- |
PARTMENT of the
Imperial Publishing Co.,
Limited, is famous for the
quality of its
on Booklets, Catalogues,
f and all kinds of Job Print+ ing,

All DalhousieStudents

especially the Book Lovers
are cordially invited to make

THE BOOK ROOM

114 Granville Street
their Headquarters

press work,

Come in and browse and
make yourself at home.

EsVICKERY, Manager. Telephone Sackville 1017

 

 

  

 

   

| YOUR BARBER!

| CENTRAL—The nearest Bar
   
  
 
  
 

NOTICE!

Now is the time to get your
Tuxedo when dances, etc., are in

    
 

full swing. ber Shop to the College.
“THE NONCHALANT” SERVICE—Always four exper- |
SILK LINED ienced barbers in attendance |

     

AT MY NEW PRICE

$24.50
Robinson’s Clothes Ltd.

444 Barrington St.
Roy Building
“Walk ux

Satisfaction Guaranteed

Special Bobbing Parlors

For Ladies

A.PUBLICOVER

23 Spring Garden Road

       
          

Stairs and Save Ten"

  

tig”.

 
   
     

 

Goes to Y.M.C.A
; sg PS The Dalhousie Senior Basketball five
F iffered a heart-breaking 31-29 defeat
at the hands of the Y. M. C. A. ball
___tossers last Friday in the last game of a
___ long evening’s program. Generally confee ceded to be very weak the Tigers showed

basketball fans that they will have to be

  
   
  
    
   
    
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
  

   

(
ie

—

drawn to a close. George was the
ft. most outstanding man on_ the floor
a ad his contribution of 19 points to the

_~ Dal score shows the brand of ball he
pees better than any words can.
The Dal team were every bit as good
as their opponents except in that all

‘| -—s important phase of the game, namely
| ——s combination. “Com” and lack of
“com"’ wins and loses more basketball
games than anything else that plays a
part in the winning of a game. Not
that the Tigers deserve criticism for
their playing, far from it, they played
a much better game than we expected of
them and their losing out on two free
throws was more hard luck than anything else. They would do well, however, to strive for more and better com
I bination. That done they will hold
a their own with any team in the league.
a The game started off well and showed
____ every indication of being the best game

of the evening. Subsequent events

proved this to be true and the remainder

of the game earned much well deserved
- applause from the gallery. George

Murphy had a night on and_ his

shots were poems of accuracy, seldom
did the hard working Dal forward miss
the basket. As is usually the case the
game see-sawed back and forth quite
regularily with each team alternatly
in the lead. The first stanza ended
18—16 in favour of Dalhousie.

_ The second period was a repetition of
the first. The Y started well and rolled
- in several baskets to the good before

the Tigers got going. George Langs_troth wasn’t long in making up for lost
time however and his shots were soon
rooling over and in the hoop. Two
free throws near the end of the game
gave Dal a scanty two point lead but a
basket and two free throws for the Y
os evened up matters and won the game
for the Red and White five, the final
score was 31—29.
Dal lined up as follows:
McLeod, 2; Davidson; Murphy 19;
Stewart; Ross 5; Smith 1; Jones; Spe
rry. ,
Satire

There's no machine suggested by
Inventors great or lesser

That I can own to equal my
Mechanical professor.

 

I give to Thomas Edison

For this device one half
The credit; it is modelled on
His famous phonograph.

It works quite well if you but wind
It every now and then—
Efficiency you'll fail to find
Among the ranks of men!

 

It need not lack the dignity
These garnishings afford:
The gown, the Ph. D. degree,
The stately mortarboard.

One fault of which I sigh to tell
Remains to my invention—
I'll never make it pluck so well
As some profs I could mention!
—Don Murray

—$$ $$$ —___—.
“TAKE MYgADVICE” A GOOD
SHOW

 

Every Student in Dalhousie is heir
to a lot of fun and many good laughs
when he goes to see the new comedy
syccess “Take My Advice,” which will
be the theatre night show Monday night
at the Strand Theatre with the Carroll
Players.

Bud Weaver's good friend, Professor
Bradley Clement, dropping in to see
what might be done to keep the boy
from quitting college in order to marry
his designing lady love, finds the whole
family in need of assistance, and promptly sets about to rescue them from
their various pursuers. Bud's father
admits that he can't resist a stock salesman if he gives the latter a chance to
talk, so the professor devises a plan for
escaping high-powered salesmen by
encouraging and agreeing with them
from the first. The promoter, he reasons, Hrives on opposition because he ist
used to it and prepared for it. He has
readymade answers for the best of your
Objections. The thing to do is to accept
gladly and agree with all his claims, and
then just as he is reaching for the subscription blank and pointing to the
dotted line you suddenly hear your wife
calling you. You excuse yourself to
answer the call, and by the time you
return the psychological instant has
passed and the promoter must begin
all over again. He can only stand this

ag unexpected treatment for a_ limited
length of time—time enough, that is to
say, for the rabbit victim to catch his
| breath and escape the boa's coils. The
scene in which this method being duly
_. explained to Mr. Weaver is tried on,
‘- and the eloquent but non-plussed highpressure salesman gradually reduced to
oe is really very funny.
heats 1is play is now running at the Copley
Square Theatre, Boston and this will be
its Canadian premier presentation Monday night at the Dalhousie Theatre
Party.

are _ STUDENTS’ ELECTRIC |
| | LAMPS AND SUPPLIES
| FARQUHAR BROS. LTD. |

|  § Barrington Street

|
Vs

oe
S

 

 

reckoned with before the season has

With Scissors

A Football Note.

    
   
   
   
 
   
  
   
   
   
 
   
  

 

DAL. HOCKEYISTS
BEATEN BYSAINTS

YELLOW AND BLACK SQUAD
OUTCLASSED BY ST. MARY’S

“International Sporting

 

opinions.

 

Dalhousie one, St. Marys seven, and
the sad tale is told. Shades of Fabie
Bates, Roe McKennaand Duke MclIsaac
“What's the matter?” you query,
didn’t the Dal players play the game?"’
Yes the Dal players played the game
all right, they played for all they were
worth and we don’t mean maybe!
It’s not the half dozen Dal puck-chasers
who played against St. Mary’s College
a week ago last night who make us
lament. They are all playing under
difficulties, and they’re all giving their
best, nuff said, nobody wants any more.
BUT, and here again we don’t mean
maybe, the score last Thursday night
SHOULD have been doubled and then
reversed! That is if we are to reflect
a little and compare the two competing
colleges. Let us do that, it couldn't
be any worse than trying to relate how
the Windsor St. kids tallied seven
goals while the Gold and Black fought
might and main for one lone marker. |

A few short years ago Dalhousie
University was represented by a hockey
team in the Halifax Amateur Hockey
League. Those Gold and Black puckchasers were often the best and the
most popular players in this little City
by the big drink. ;

Well let’s leave the immediate past
for the immediate present, or perhaps
the sublime for the ridiculous, it's the
same thing. Last Thursday the 26th,
(sad day we have it marked in black on
our calendar) a squad of willing—and
here willing is no mean qualification—
sons of Dalhousie engaged in a regular
hockey match with St. Mary’s College
and lost out by the score of seven goals
to one. These players are the willing
servers of the same fair college that once
had the privilege of seeing men like
Fabie Bates, ‘‘Duke’’ Mclsaac, Jack I.
McNeil, Leon Fluke, Roe McKenna,
“Monte” Haslam, Allan Dunlop,
“Nutty” Wilson, and others that I
can't recall offhand, carry the colours
to equally brilliant victory or defeat
against the Maritime’s best. Considering all of which we ask the great
question—WHY ?

All the shouts, yells, action mad
screams of the 7000 people who jammed
the Halifax Forum recently, all the
milder exclamations of the ‘‘listeners-in”’
all the opinions of the thousand who
discussed the burning question of the
day can be boiled down to the one,
gigantic, as it is, question. And that
question is—WHY—. Why should the
best Nova Scotia can offer suffer a
14—1 humiliation at the hands of the
best of Upper Canada? Was it bad?
We doubt if many teamsin hockeyless
Europe will do worse. And yet let's
return home and we can find a worse,
yes, and the score was 7—1.

There are about 600 male students at
Dalhousie, there are about 100
men at St. Mary’s College (a hundred
children make up the 200 or so that
answer the attendance roll and YELL
their team on to repeated victories,
repeated championships, and repeated,
unexcelled advertising). With one exception the team that, well you know
what they did, is made up entirely of
High School Students! Drop that man
and they have another, equally as good,
to step right into his shoes. Alas!
(dramatic conclusion) we were humiliated by a bunch of high school lads.
They won because they were better,
very, very much better.

teams, was something of a huge flop,
and poor judgment was shown in bringthe the Easterners here at this season
of the year.

There is not a howling interest in
English rugby, as was shown when
U. B. C. students refused to support

here, the money should be spent in
furthering star soccer clubs, or representative CANADIAN RUGBY teams,
and not spent on a comparatively
‘lack of interest’’ sport.

The press gave the Eastern team a
big ballyhoo, but this was slashed considerably when the receipts and attendance at the first game were made
public.

True, the sport has its select following in Vancouver, but the Rugby Union
lost a cool $2,300 on the venture. Aggregate attendance for three games was
3100 with gate receipts of only $1473.

A mighty poor showing when an
Eastern team plays here.

—The Ubyssey.

io
Exemplary Honesty.

 

“One college professor told me that
the only good thing he had done during
his career as a teacher was to induce
two per cent of his students to leave
college.""—A Mr. Green (a skeptic) to
student group at University of Washington.

—_—_———$—$—$—$————

‘THE SOMME” IS GREATER BY

FAR THAN ANY PREVIOUS

GREAT WAR PICTURE

“The Somme,” mightiest of all war
pictures, greater by far than that memorable epic ‘‘Mons’’ and excelling the
big British motion picture ‘‘Ypres,”’ in
such a degree that words fail to describe
its immensity will be presented by the
Canadian Legion in conjunction with
the Orpheus Theatre.

“The Somme” will be given to the
people of Halifax direct from the greatest triumph ever accorded a motion picture, at the Marble Arch Pavilion,
London, England, where thousands

 

performances of the sensational war
epic has to be shown, even running
into the wee small hours of the morning.

“The Somme” is indeed greater by
far than either ‘Ypres’ or ‘‘Mons”
in that it is not merely a story, but
deals with the memorable campaign
from beginning to end, in such a way
that one feels he is taking part in the
whole campaign, which lasted from
that first great offensive on July 1,
1916, through that memorable day
when the first Canadian soldier went
into action in the greatest battle of all
history.

Phone Sack. 195

 

The RossPrint Ltd

Printers, Publishers, Bookbinders

We Specialize in Society Printing of all kinds, such as

sare Ore you have it. But not all INVITATIONS

of it. All the hockey players attending AEN]
Dal today couldn't present a line-up ANNOUNCEMENTS
like “‘there used to was’’. Something DANCE PROGRAMS
far more difficult would have to be Etc. Etc.

overcome for that to come about. (It
would of course, take about two years,
that’s all). To get back to the more
immediate possibilities: Dal could have
a much, a very much better team this
year IF it wasn’t for the iron decrees of
the faculty. We have a goalie who is
capable of filling the shoes left vacant
by Jack Lewis, and that’s no mild qualification. We have a first class defense
man, plays senior hockey, I mean played. We have others. Pardon me, |
mean we SHOULD have, we had, we
haven't NOW, but they are HERE!

All of which reminds me the score was
7—1 and Dal lined up as follows:
_ Goal Gerguson, defense McCunn and
Godsoe, forwards Taylor, Foley, and
Sangster.

__ OO
S. Archibald Morton, Med. 26, is

taking a special course in the Mayo
Clinic, Baltimore.

Always first in quality
Very moderate prices
Publishers of
Cameron’s ‘‘Regional Anatomy”
Cameron’s‘‘Osteology & Arthology’

 

 

 

 

SA ee

 

Globe Laundry Ltd |

50 Buckingham Street

 

G.W.SPRAGUE, Vice-Pres.
C. W. SPRAGUE, Pres.

 

The College Students’
Laundry

Telephone Sac. 714

“ This is Dalhousie’s Night!”
MONDAY FEBRUARY 6th,

THEATRE PARTY AND DANCE

AT THE STRAND

A Big Show —“Take My Advice” with Dal. Songs, Skits, and Music
GET YOUR TICKETS NOW !

A DALHOUSIE NIGHT FROM
START TO FINISH!

__ DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

el ae

 

This editorial was published in the
News.”” We
print it without comment, hoping that
our readers will see fit to express their

Poor Judgment in English Rugby.
Generally speaking, the intersection
al series in which Dalhousie ruggers
met representative- British Columbia

their own team in the first game. If
we must bring a hig squad of players

were turned away daily and _ special |}

 

—E = — -_

February 3rd, 1928

 

—————— —

“‘AFTER MIDNIGHT” PRESENTS
_A NEW NORMA SHEARER

gee

“After Midnight,’’ Norma Shearer’s
new starring vehicle which opens next
Monday at the Casino Theatre is a
dramatically human play of a life which COMING
begins in poverty and ends in poverty, | ff

and presents the star in a new character- | LAST COMMAND

ization. The episodes between the WITH
beginni nd end are set in the trap-|
beginning and en e trap-| | EMIL JANNINGS

pings of wealth, filled with the tinsel
and glitter of the night clubs of a great | ff
FRENCH
DRESSING

city and portray a young girl's struggle] §
ALL STAR CAST

and Padis Pot

Growing Up.

Princeton, N. J. (IP).—Bill Stonaker, veteran engineer on the Junction
branch of the Pennsylvania Railroad,
when asked by a reporter to comment
on modern developments in the college
man, readily waxed reminiscent.

“Tt is 25 years,” said Mr. Stonaker,
“since I’ve been on the Princeton to
Princeton Junction branch of the Pennsylvania Railroad, and college boys
have changed a lot since I started. They
ain't so kiddish as they used to be—
now they’re grown-up like and act
like old men.

“Why, I remember when the seniors
used to come down here to the station after graduation and throw each
other through the car windows; it
would get down to where only two or
three were left, then the others would
come out of the cars and throw the
last ones in—and they got a lot of fun
out of it; catch any senior now-a-days

 

   

  
   
      
   
    
  
   
  
  
   
   
   
   
 
 
  
   
   
    
  
   
   
  
  
  
   
 
   
  
  
  
   
  
 
   
   
   
   
 

 

to combat life. The enemy is not some
silk-hat villain, as is usually the case] ff
on the screen, but that much more bru-|}
tal thing, Life, itself.

The story tells the love of a cigarette
girl for a thief. In the end the thief |
reforms and becoms a taxi driver and] ff CARROLL PLAYERS
their youth and romance triumphs over | # IN
Wer evil about ere: It is so nee. i NEW PLAYS
realistic that it dares to present life as it | ff
is and yet finds a place for the homely, | | POPULAR PRICES
simple virtues to shine. Lawrence|
Gray plays opposite Miss Shearer. Gwen
Lee appears in an important supporting
role.

STRAND THEATRE }

 

CS

CASINO

 

ees or being thrown throggh aa) (Qo THIS FRI-SAT

window. . THE S ;

“Then sometimes they would get SONG SHOP +". BUCK JONES
in

for ANYTHING in

MUSIC

22 Spring Garden Rd.
Halifax, 3 $ Canada

real prankish and trim my engine with
flowers—buttercups, and daisies on a
locomotive! Oh, they were cards!"
Asked about hazing, the veteran
railroad man replied, ‘‘There ain’t no
hazing no more at all, but they sure
used to make it hard for the freshman
when they did. Many's the time I’ve
seen freshmen rolling peanuts down,

Blair steps with their noses. There ®
again the boys are too old now, too] | Dalhousie
grown up—and ‘fastiddyus!’ Why the| |
Crested
S ¢
tationery

boys all look like President Hibben now.
“They never used to wear anything
but old clothes and slouch hats except
Linen or Kid Finished
Note-Paper with Crested {
Envelopes to match.

‘“‘Whispering Sage’’

Ringside Pictures
of the

JARVIS- BERLANGER

Championship Flyweight
FIGHT

 

 

BILLY DOOLEY COMEDY
‘The Trail of the Tiger’’

NEXT MON-TUE-WED.
when they were going to see their girls
or on Sunday—now those are the times
they don’t dress up, I can’t make them
out. They sure are cards.”

_ And as the Princeton Junction Limited got up steam for her last run of the
night, he added, ‘‘Yep, they sure are
cards!”’

NORMA SHEARER
in
“After Midnight”’

 

—The Hatchet.

ORPHEUS

MON. & TUE.

“A RENO DIVORCE”

With May McAvoy

  

FARRELL’S

391 Barrington St.

  
   
  
  
   
  
   

HUBLEY’S

DRY CLEANING, DYING AND
PRESSING
VALETERIA

4 Tickets - - - $2.00
52 Sackville Street, Phone S$ io9

 

A Complete Book—Stationery ;

and Gift Shop Service LAST FOUR DAYS

“The Canadian Legion Presents”

THE
SOMME

GREATEST WAR
PICTURE EVER
SHOWN

See our own Canadian
Troops in action

 

 

College
Offers
ENGINEERING COURSES

In
CIVIL, ELECTRICAL, MECHANICAL AND MINING
To Dalhousie Students with Engineering Diploma
MODERN EQUIPMENT

a Instructing Staff with Industrial Experience
Tuition Fee $75.00 per year. Twenty-five scholarships of $75.00 each

Write or call for Calendar or advice.

F. H. SEXTON, Pres.

  

  

res

 

COLWELL BROTHERS

Limited

1928 Style Caps

for
Young Men
¢2.00 each

Frank Colwell Ltd.

New Address

417 Barrington Street
Opp. Church of England Institute

453-457 Barrington Street

MEN’S HATS, CLOTHING, FURNISHINGS
AND LUGGAGE

HIGH CLASS GOODS AT MODERATE PRICES

 

 

ACROSS CANADA
With the Dalhousie Party——

the Dalhousie Tigers recently took their

wre
long trip across Canada, THE HALIFAX

 

|Freeman’s Pharmacy

‘The Collegian’s

'
HERALD'S readers were kept in touch with daily
happening all along the way from Halifax to Van- Dr St :
. A Herald representative travelled over 8.000 | y 8 sda |
| me to ae this service to HALIFAX HERALD | Use Wampoles Cod Liver |
readers. Are you getting this service? Do you Oil, and kee in sha
Sie meh Ste fe IS: | PER Cis Oy OM 2 p shape
olow the Sporting columns of the HALIFAX | during the cold season

HERALD and get the LATEST in Sport news?

 

_COBURG ROAD
Near the College

20% off all Rubber Goods
this week

THE HALIFAX HERALD

AND

THE EVENING MAIL

ai ey a

|

couver, B. C.

BUTTONS ON
RENTS MENDED
HOLES DARNED

That’s the service you get

free when you send YOUR
Laundry to Ungar’s.

VALETERIA

A new pressing Service:
Your Suit or Overcoat
Steam Cleaned and Pressed, for 75c or 4 Tickets
for $2.00.

NECKTIES cleaned 10c.

UNGAR’S

Barrington St.,
Sack 428

LAUNDERING
CLEANING

AT THE MASONIC TEMPLE

Halifax, N. S.
Har. 127

FIVE HOURS OF
CONTINUAL FUN!

DYEING
VALETERIA

 

 

>

  

 

 

 
