    
  
 
 

    
 

«position now and cannot do justice to

a, tackler and tackled would stage a

oi

Ri

f

 
  
 
   
      
    

F Py
e \ ,

‘

 

Ly [ .
; h “T came, I saw, I conquered.” Once
again Caesar's famous saying was
> _ exemplified and this time the Dal- housie Tigers were the active party
| ‘gad. the Acadia Rugby fifteen the
victims.
It was a fair rugby game but a poor
_ referee and a field in very bad coniY Triton reduced it to one of a very
_ mediocre character. Many questionable
plays and petty squabbles spoiled the
., contest from the spectator's point of
view.» Several players were injured in
ss the second half and it was a common
thing to see several piace sprawled
G Wa: t on the ground alter a scrimmage
Nee Ney eland, of Acadia, received the
--——s- worst injuries and was taken from the
field ~with a badly battered nose and
. mouth.
_ Once again the Dal forwards showed
__ it’s willingness to work and time after
‘time they crushed Acadia attacks before
they had time to become effective.
- But there was something wrong in the
Dal scrum formation and the ball
didn't come out as cleanly as in the
Wanderers game. Wickwire, had he
Ee the ball more frequently, would
have been one of the stars of the game.
But he didn’t and many golden opportunities were missed by Dal when he was
downed by the Acadians. In past
years Bill has shown us that he can
play rugby but he is not in his right

9

is

himself or to the team.

_ And the _tackling—one spectator
; it would make a lovely necking
. arty and that was just about the
truth. With a few exceptions every
MEY Te

 
 
 
  
  
  
   
  
 

tackle was above the waist and then the
_. Charleston and perhaps fall down ex_~- hausted from their efforts. At times
it was amusing but in football it is
A aes not so good.
athena ail ah ran telah ess Br eae
pane gas The Game _

~~

A oie

     
 

ay started with Dal having the
wind behind them and Acadia kicked
'__ off, Dal punted a couple ot times and
ae yr pper picked up a loose ball, passed
Par # sig gf ape gar who made a good run
to place the ball squarely behind the
posts. Ab Smith converted and the
score stood 5—0 in favor of Dal with
the game less than two minutes old.
It was a good start and things looked
good for the Tigers but Acadia came
back strong and forced through to
touch for safety. Play then shifted
to center field where both teams battled
for ground. The Tigers retreated but
when they reached their ten yard line
they stopped and Acadia could not
cross the line. Wickwire gained a
lot of ground by his kicking and Acadia
was on the defensive but Bill spoiled

- golden chances when he held the ball
too long. Dunlop, Tupper and Smith

were breaking fast to down the Acad
‘ians. ‘Kelly’ was watching Ryan

and blocking every play he tried.
Wickwire again put his team in scoring
position but the final punch was lacking

and no score was made. Tupper
followed up a kick to nab MacOdrum
before he could clear, and Acadia
touched for safety in the next play.
A scrum followed; and it was Dal’s
ball and Bunker tried a drop, he failed
but captured the returned ball and
_ plunged through to go over the line
right in the corner. It was a hard
convert and ‘‘Ab” missed. The half
ended with the ball in Acadia’s territory
_ and Dal on the long end of an 8—O

», 2 genre,
la Second Half.

kicked off and Acadia with the
on their backs pressed hard.

7.

hong et
wind
‘Two free kicks took them to Dal's
ten yard line but there they stopped.
f

)

Ryan, the Acadian side quarter was
playing a great game and fought all
the time. Play was very tight in this

yalf and the ball moved up and down
4 o. gut but no scores were pede.
Acadia supporters were given a thri
when Ryan broke away for a fifty yard
2 ba run but Geo. MacLeod dashed their
= _ hopes when he made a perfect tackle
and downed his man on the twenty-five

d line. It was good playing on

 
 

saw the score unchanged and Dal’s
_ line still uncrossed this year.

The lineups.— ’

_ Acadia—MacOdrum, Mathews, Wil
son (Capt.), Noble, Davis, Dugan,
yan, Hatfield, Cleveland, Price, Titus,

White, Hubley, Kierstead, Fetterley, |

Black, es pees , ‘

_ Dalhousie—MacLeod, Murphy, Lanpetro h, MacDonald, Hewatt, A. Suth: » MacLean, Wickwire, Townsend,

‘Campbell, Irving, Dunlop, Smith,
(Capt.), H. Sutherland, Jones,

  

 
 

  
   

  

   
  

es

AZETTE REPRESENTATIVE ARRESTED ON TUESDAY

=| Ben R. Guss Charged With

ta

ing Saturday's game, we realize

Tae

|
ty

WUT)

Hi

4 ‘Tigers Swamp Acadians
Before Huge Throng

ma NO SCORE YET MADE AGAINST DAL.
 — ________

 
 
  
 
  
 
   
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
   
  

J. H. L. Jonnstone

Prominent Dalhousie Professor who receed recent honours in sctence
and sport

i Brosh and Law
Are Winners

Last week saw the beginning of
Interfaculty Rugby, two games being
played on the Studley Campus. The
first one was a struggle between the
Freshmen and the Engineers, and the
verdant ones emerged from the fray
to find themselves on the right end of
3—0 score. Their week of practice
under the guiding hand of George
Langstroth was quite apparent and
they will make the other teams step
lively before they will give up the

 

laurel wreath of victory.

The second game, played on Tuesday,
Oct. 11, brought forth the warriors
from Law and Dentistry. The Dents
pulled hard but the Lawyers, largely
through the efforts of Doyle, won the
case and a 3—0 verdict was awarded
to them.

NEWMAN CLUB
MET ON FRIDAY

Society Makes Plans
Successful Year

 

 

For

 

The Newman Club bean supper has
now become an annual event, and that
held last Friday was the most successful
beth from the point of view of attendance and of general enjoyment. Though
the weather played false, and it rained
cats and dogs (with the result that
lecture attendance suffered somewhat
in the afternoon), few of the ninetyfour members were absent from the
K. of C. Hall at six-thirty. Prof.
Gautheron and Mr. Henry  Godsoe
spoke briefly of the history and aims
of the Newman Club. A _ point of
extreme interest to one onlooker was
the expression of extreme comprehension on all faces while Prof. Gautheron was speaking. Indeed (the source
of this is not reliable) it was remarked
that somebody knew when to laugh.
It was then announced that there would
be a dance on Tuesday night, which
Mr. Godsoe promised would come up
to any expectations. And he was
right. A most efficient committee,
consisting of Claire Murphy, Henry
Godsoe and Alban Farmer, was in
charge of the preparations. Mr. and
Mrs. W. Godsoe were the chaperones.
The Newman Club has entered upon,
what promises to be a most successful

year.
K .H.

COUNCIL MEETING

The Council of Students will hold a
meeting next Tuesday night in the

 

Munro Room. The budgets of the

different student organizations of the
university will be considered and the
matter of union with the National
Federation of Canadian University
Students will be discussed. As announced by the president of the council
at the bee 5 ning of the year, the
meeting will be open to the general
student body and it is expected that a
large number of students will be in
attendance.
CO

After nearly freezing to death watch
why

so many Acadia students wear sweaters.

t ta f
7

hs | i.
Ve Se eae eee ee %

 

———O——

 

  
 
  
 
 
   

     
    

ier
4
wv
aBrg 1
i

 
 

nnn ey ale
are Te ae ae rw
PR Une

‘
r
ae ore
SS
a : ery 
Y ae : “i 5

;

    

—Official Student Publication at Dalhousie University—

HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA, OCTOBER 21st, 1927

DR. JOHNSTONE
IN THE LIMELIGHT

Wins Golf Championship
—Re-elected President
Science Institute

 

On Wednesday evening Oct. 12th
Dr. J. H. L. Johnstone, Professor of
Physics at Dalhousie was elected
President of the Nova Scotia  Institute of Science at the regular meeting
of that society which took place in the
Medical Science Building, College St.
Not content with that however Dr.
Johnstone captured the Ashburn Golf
Championship the following day and
by so doing hung up his second win on
the trophy. His prowess at golf is
also well known to his many friends,
he having won the Club Championship
and title in 1924, His win Thursday
is especially worthy both because of the
competition and his splendid 74 on the
last eighteen holes. Local golfing circles are looking for a play-off match
between the champions of the three
local clubs. Should this. match take
place the showing of Dr. Johnstone
will be watched with interest by his
many friends and pupils at Dalhousie.
The Gazette staff, both for themselves
and for the general student body, offer
their congratulations to Dr. Johnstone
for his recent achievements and wish
him every success in the future.

—J. W..W.

Ground Hockey

 

 

Girls—you have not quite
three weeks to play before the
Edgehill match.

Everybody needs the practice
So Everybody Come Out.
Mon. Wed. Fri. at 4.30 p.m.

  

DAL vs SERVICES
TOMORROW

 

The United Service Rugby
Team will clash with the Dalhousie squad on the Studley
Campus tomorrow afternoon. The
Service Team gave the Wanderers a hard struggle last week
and are out to beat the Tigers,
if they can.

Dal defeated Acadia a week
ago and since then the team has
been practicing faithfully. The
coaches are making changes every
day and the team that lines up
tomorrow will be worthy of all
the support our student body is
able to give.

 

That Pass In The Night

By A. L. Murphy

 

The night was sultry. Clouds of
threatening mien, hanging low in the
heavens, cast one great black shadow
upon the earth. Even John Mannering on his airy sleeping porch was hot,
uncomfortable. He ran_ his fingers
through his iron grey hair and rolled
over for what he calculated to be the
nineteeth time. He kicked off the
sole remaining cover and turning his
pillow about caressed it to passing
smoothness. Muttered imprecations. It
was just as hot, and damp. If it would
only rain—nice, cool rain!

He reached vaguely toward a ball.
His valet could get him a cold drink.
No, perhaps the poor devil was asleep. .
Lucky devil if he were. He'd speak
to him in the morning about his thoughtlessness. There was consolation in
that..... If morning ever came. He
had grave doubts. The poor eskimos
with their long northern nights. He
must send a check to their relief fund
tomorrow. But it was at least cool up
there. Hell! Let them suffer!

He rolled over for the twentieth
time. Somewhere a screen door began
to squeak mournfully. In a_neighboring back yard a cat adeptly picked
up the air. The duet went on in soulful
harmony while John Manning pondered
on the dullness of eternity.. He had
retired early and it would, he thought
have been about midnight had not time
come to an end. He listened disinterestedly to another sound which
seemed to have a disconcerting effect
on the cat. The door, however, kept
nobly on. A low, purring sound. It
was a car and the meshing of gears
could now be heard. He sprang from
his bed and ran anxiously to the rail.
The garage doors were open and his pet
roadster was slipping quietly down the

drive. The chauffeur had forgotten to
lock the garage doors or else.... There
was no time for theories, he must
arouse the house. » But no. The car

was already approaching the street.
John Mannering had once been a
daring youth and his spirit had not
faded with his hair. His firm mouth
softened in an excited smile. It was
tco late to procure help.... He
swung himself lightly over the railing
of the verandah and dropped to the
grass below. His ankle turned under
him and began to pulsate with pain.
but he hobbled gamely on swearing
softly with each broken stride. And

as the car turned onto the main road a
barefooted, pyjama clad figure swung
itself into a precarious position on the

 

 

 

rear tire carrier.

John Mannering’s home was on the
outskirts of the city and the hope he had
entertained of hailing a policeman
became remote as the car turned into a
sequestered country road. He was no
longer overheated and the wind pierced
his silk garments like a host of pricking
sword points. His arm, wound around
the spare tire, was beginning to ache
and his feet were benumbed against
its metal rim. His ankle was swollen
and throbbing madly, his eyes bulging
in their sockets as he clasped his free
hand over his mouth to suppress his
coughing from the asphyxiating fumes
of the exhaust which blew fairly into
his face. To clamber up on the sloping
back of the roadster would have meant
discovery by the two persons within.
One, he thought was a woman. Meiories of bobbed-hair bandits came to
his mind. That these were no common
sneak-thieves on a joy ride he felt sure.
The car was simply a necessary adjunct
to some greater scheme, perhaps a
daring holdup. They would have no
compunctions about putting. him out
of the way. He hung on, grim determination in his heart. If he could only
last a little longer. They must stop
soon and then would come his opportunity....He smiled as he thought of
the headlines in the morning paper.
—‘Prominent Citizen Foils Ruthless
Bandits,""—"‘ John Mannering Plays the
Hero In—"’, a deep hole in the road
brought him back to cruel reality,
nearly wrenching his arm from. its
socket. Rain was at last falling. Down
it came, harder and_ harder. His
heroic role became suddenly less desirable. He was cold, wet, dishevelled,
miserable and aching all over. At the
speed they were travelling, to jump
would have meant death. He would
fall off soon enough he ruminated morosely. They were on another road,
—rough and muddy. He thought of
his sleeping porch where he had been
comfortable and warm, yes, actually
warm! All about him was inky blackness and all idea of direction had fled.
A car approached and faded in the night
before he could summon energy to hail
it.

And sO on and on,—and on. He
sank into a stupor, almost unsciously
holding on.

‘At last the speed lessened. They
were On yet another road and John
Mannering felt himself bumping over
the threshold of a garage. He slipped

(Continued on Page 3.)

 

 

Slickers

 

Dappled black with queer designs

or simply, dignifiedly plain,

i RS Yellow glossy slickers gleaming in

the teeming, streaming rain—

In the dark and windy wetness,

happy flashing beacons, they,

Shining for the hidden sun and

laughing at the rainy day
—Don Murray, Arts ‘29.

 

  
    
  

Pt
RT ae

'

i

 

 
 

 
 
   
  
  
  
   
  
 

LARGEST
CIRCULATION
OF ANY COLLEGE

PAPER IN THE
MARITIMES

 

NO. 3

 

 

Contempt

Of Court

BUSY DAY AT MOOT COURT

 

| Arrested |. |

s
o ‘
S
Ss
nS
oe
‘ ——_———

Ben R. Guss who was arrested, Tuesday,
for contempt of court.

S. C. A. Holds
First Meeting

The men's branch of the S. C. A.
enjoyed a very successful supper at
St. Matthew’s Church Hall, last Friday
evening. Although the weatherman
was a little unkind, there was a splendid
attendance, a great number of new

 

 

 

 

 

+

Charged with contempt of ¥Fcourt,
if not libel, Ben R. Guss was arrested
and brought before the Moot Court
for trial, last Tuesday afternoon. Mr.
Guss is a representative of the Gazette
and, in reporting a session of the
court, stated that the cases ranged
‘from the sublime to the ridiculous.”’

This was brought to the attention
of the court by Chief Justice Walsh,
who emphasized the seriousness of the
offence and ordered Sheriff Atwood
to arrest the offender. Mr. Guss was
placed under arrest late in the afternoon and pleaded “Guilty”. This was
refused by the bench, however, and he
was forced to plead “Not Guilty.”
Bail was granted and the case will be
tried next Tuesday.

The Moot Court of Dalhousie held a
session last Tuesday afternoon. . Several cases were tried before Chief Justice
Walsh assisted by Judges Godsoe and
Mackenzie.

The first case was that of Sharper vs
Dolittle and was opened by the junior
counsels. Keyes for the appellant
and Smith for the respondent. Both
counsels stood up well under a fire of
technical questions from the learned
Chief Justice.

Senior Counsel, Mr. Gavsie then
arose for the appellant. Mr. Gavsie
congratulated the junior counsels on
their work and the Chief Justice on
being the first alien to have a place on
the bench. Chief Justice wanted to
know when Mr. Gavsie had ever heard
of an alien arguing in a court of law.

Mr. Gavsie, (continuing) “He (the
Chief Justice) came to us, three short
years ago, from a land of wilderness and
summer fishing. He soon adapted himself to our high state of civilization.”

Judge Mackenzie ‘‘Contempt of
Court!”

Judge Godsoe. ‘‘What do you mean
by ‘Summer fishing?”’

Chief Justice Walsh, “Get on with

students being present, which is very the casel’’

encouraging to the association. President Bob Ross presided.

The speakers of the evening were
Dr. A. S. Mackenzie, President of the
University, Dr. H. L. Stewart, and
Herbert A Davison.

The company were favoured with
an excellent solo by Mr. Fred Guildford,
accompanied by Johany Thurrott, S. H.
Baird, the Sec.-Treas. introduced the
group leaders who are, Dr. Bronson,
Prof. Mercer and Dr. Jackson.

Although the dinner was a great
success and we look for great things
from the S. C. A. this year.

VISITOR MAKES
SPORT SURVEY

Agent
Dalhousie

 

Carnegie Scans

 

J. T. Bentley, a representative of the
Carnegie Foundation Institute visited
Dalhousie. last week to ascertain the
athletic conditions here. The Carnegie Institute has just completed a
survey of the athletics in all the U.S. A.
colleges. The purpose is to sponsor
sport for sport’s sake. Dalhousie is
the first Canadian College to be visited
in a similar survey.

In a lengthly discussion with J.
Gerald Godsoe President of the Students’ Council, Mr. Beritley stated that
it was important to have bona fide
amateur sportsmen in college; porfessionalism must be kept out by all
means. For this purpose Mr. Bentley
is making a scrutiny of the system of
financial control with regard to athletics.

He was interested in all problems
incidental to student life and college
government. He received from Gerald
Godsoe specimens of stationery, handbook, gazette, year-book, etc.

Mr. Bentley was duly impressed by
the high standard maintained in our
athletics and by the _ co-operation
existing between the student body and
the Faculty. The Committee of Nine
which has made athletics its chief care
received Special praise as a forward
step and as an admirable institution.
It may be mentioned that president
Mackenzie is chairman of this committee.

Nearly every person familiar with the
life of colleges on the North American
Continent knows of the services rendered in education and educational research by the Carnegie Institute. The
fact that Carnegie is now making this
new survey augurs well for college
athletics. General satisfaction is being
expressed on the campus.

ee

Don’t forget the Freshie-Soph
Dance next Monday night. The
Biggest College Event in years.

Bring HER!!!

Mr. Gavsie then stated his case
during which several lengthy discussions
nea place between himself and the
ench.

Senior Counsel, Mr. Coffin, stated his
case for the respondent. He was interrupted shortly after starting by
Sheriff Atwood arousing three gentlemen who had gone to sleep.

As the case hinged on some technical
points, judgment was reserved for a
week,

A_ serious criminal charge against
J. Powell was then announced and he
was promptly summoned. At this
juncture Chief Justice Walsh drew the
attention of the court to an article in the
Dathousie Gazette of October 14, referring to a session of the moot court and
signed B. R. G.—presumably Ben
Guss. It was pointed out that the
article stated that ‘the cases ranged
from the ridiculous to the sublime:"
this, the Chief Justice stated was
clearly contempt of court and ordered
the Sheriff to seize Mr. Guss for trial
as soon as he found him.

The case of Rex vs Powell was then
taken up. Prisoner was asked if he
wished to be tried by jury. Prisoner
replied that after looking around the
court-room and seeing who were present, he thought not. Atwood, for the
prosecution pointed out that, owing to
certain technicalities jury was necessary.

Sheriff Hebb was ordered to empanel
a jury. Matheson, MacNaught, Farmer and Fay had been called when Mr.
Guss entered the room. He was
immediately arrested and put in the
prisoners’ box. Mr. Atwood asked that
a guard be placed over him. Prisoner
was told charge and questioned whether
guilty or no. Prisoner appeared shaken. Pleaded guilty. Bench declared
plea illegal, trial suspended.

Powell’s trial was then resumed and
proved extremely interesting. Due to
the seriousness of the charge many
objections were made to various witnesses. Kelloway, and Keyes were
summoned by the prosecution and
cross-examined, although Ryan, counsel
for the defence objected on the grounds
that they were of low moral character.
Both witnesses gave evidence both as to
the low moral standards of the prisoner
and as to having seen him commit the
crime in question. Mr. Ryan put up
a very strong plea for the defence and
attempted fo free his client on the
grounds of insanity. Mr. Atwood, in
addressing the jury, emphasized the
value of the evidence submitted and the
reliability of his witnesses. The Chief
Justice then instructed the jury to
consider the case and pointed out that
was there any doubt, the prisoner was
not to get the benefit of it. The jury,
after a few minutes deliberation returned a verdict of guilty. Prisoner
was given suspended sentence.

The case against Mr. Guss was
postponed until the next session.

   
  
  
   
  
    
  
 
  
     
  
   
   
   
    
     
   
  
 
  
   
      
   
 
  
   
  
   
   
 
   
   
  
   
 
     
  
   
      
    
 
   
 
   
     
      
 
     
      
   
   
     
  
       
 
   
   
      
   
        
   
     
    
      
    
   
    
   
    
 
 
 
  
  
 
  

—— a) =

 

(Founded 1869)

FRED C. JENNINGS

Sports Editor
J. A, C. LEWIS

Exchange Editor.
KATHERINE HANIFEN

, Associate Editors.
BEN GUSS
. W. GORDON DUSTAN

Business Manager.

RALPH S. MORTON
52 Quinpool Rd.
Phone Sac. 304

Subscription Rate : $1.00 per year

 

Federation of Canadian Students

The Council of Students of Dalhousie is at present considering the matter of union with the National Federation of Canadian Universities. The secretary of the Council during the summer received a number of communications from the Federation
- inviting the local body to join the organization. It would be well

if the student body in general understood the nature of the Federation before the Council has passed upon the subject for such
a union should bring about many and far-reaching results.

The idea of the federation of students in Canada came from
England through the efforts of Ralph Nunn, member of the Imperial Debating Team which toured Canada in 1926. Mr. Nunn
is a past president of the National Union of Students of England
and Wales and, during the tour of the debaters, he placed before
‘many of the presidents of University Councils the possibilities
of forming a similar union in Canada.

That the idea fell on fertile ground was evidenced in December
1926, when a convention of representatives from a large number
of Canadian Universities convened in Montreal at McGill University to consider the pros and cons of the movement. It is worthy
_of note that Prof. N. A. Mackenzie, assistant legal adviser to the
International Labor Bureau, League of Nations, was a guest of the
convention and one of the chief speakers. Prof. Mackenzie is a

graduate of Dalhousie and is at present professor of International
law at the University of Toronto. Professor Mackenzie spoke
on the history of the National Students’ Union Movement, its
operation in England, South Africa, Australia and the continent;
and the purpose it serves.

The benefits and scope of the federation as put forward by the

convention were:

(1) Promotion of understanding between eastern,
western and central University sections of Canada.

(2) Interprovincial scholarships with exchange of
students among universities.

(3) Arrangement of debates and athletic events
among universities and the systematising of the tours
of universities from without Canada.

(4). The securing of special privileges, such as reduced railway fares, for students.

(5) The value of the Federation as a clearing house
of ideas among the different universities on matters of
student government, student publications and student
activities in general was discussed by the convention.

_ A constitution was drafted by a special committee during the
convention last December and a temporary executive was nominated to further the plans of the newly formed body. Since the
convention the executive has been busily engaged in interesting
the student heads of the different Canadian universities in an
effort to obtain their cooperation. A great number of these universities have signified their willingness to enter the union. Among
these are: McGill, Bishop’s, Montreal, Toronto, Universities of
British Columbia, Alberta and Saskatechewan, University of
Western Ontario, Acadia and U. N. B. The assent or refusal of
Dalhousie will soon be decided.

There is no doubt that a Union of the student bodies of Canadian Universities would be a right step in the march of progress
if carefully planned. To bring about the union of institutions so
widely spread throughout Canada will mean the clashing of diverse
thoughts, ideas and ideals. Will this clashing smooth and round
out the ideas of the different university bodies involved or will
there be a crashing and crushing result due to collisin of opinions
too directly opposed? That is the question. The Federation
can never hope to have legislative powers. To bind institutions,
separated as widely by geographical and racial influences, as the
universities of Canada, to regulations made by a central governing
body would bring unjust pressure to bear on some sections and
would undoubtedly cause friction. The central body could be
nothing more than an advisory board or, as was suggested at the
convention, a clearing house of ideas.

The exchange of scholarships, if wisely controlled, would be
an important work of the federation. This exchange of students
among the different universities would do as much towards interchanging ideas as the work of the federation itself. But supervision
of the exchange it would be found, would have to be carried on
by the university authorities.

Probably the main field of activity of the Federation is the
arrangement of debates, and athletic events among the Canadian
colleges and between Canadian colleges and those of England,
United States and other countries. Here, the wide extent of
Canada would have to be considered as the distance between universities is detrimental to united effort. A central committee to
formulate plans for such events would be difficult to make representative. The only solution would be a permanent secretary,
who could, under supervision, arrange such matters. This official
_ could visit all institutions in the federation and keep the members in touch with the doings of the organization. The matter of
supervision of the secretary might add to the difficulties of the

organization. |
There are a number of opportunities for the Federation to
function in securing special privileges for students in travelling,
hotel accomodation and similar matters. The uniting of interests
of the student-body along this line should bring results.
| The foregoing is an outline of the scope and aims of the new
‘university union. The Federation is still in its infancy and its

 
  

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Little Grains Of Sand

HE sun shone with a pleasin

warmth through the open fla
of my tent. Lying prone on my cot, t
watched a hornet perform with incredible technique a surgical operation
upon a fly. As he neatly clipped the
wings and head from his victim and
flew away with his dressed meal, I
exhaled a lazy puff towards the ridge
pole and complimented myself on my
good fortune in choosing work for the
summer,

This indeed was a man’s work.

Far away from the noisome turmoil of

the city, in the heart of the forest of
a Canadian province, my soul could
expand, my mind function untrammelled by petty incidents, and my body
could repair the ravages that
application at my books had wrought.

My thoughts continued to dwell
on my present fortunate location.
Here one saw life in the raw, the subjugation of nature by man, the turning
of mighty powers to the use of the
human race by the utilization of the
accumulated scientific inheritance of
the ages. Manis indeed a powerful
entity—each one of us a being to be
reckoned with—a virtual Atlas, controlling powers as weighty as small
planets.

How long I would have ruminated
on the wonders of man is a mystery,
for, at the thought “weighty’’, I remembered that | had to carry some
material to the summit of a steep hill
where construction of a concrete monument was underway. This monument was for the purpose of locating
definitely, a point of land for survey
work.

With eagerness I jumped from the
cot and fastened the load upon the
packboard. Carrying a fifty pound
pack of sand is merely pleasant recreation, | thought, as I strapped the
packboard to my back. The air seemed
so buoyant and life-giving that I
felt I could easily have carried fifty
more pounds.

Here, thought I, stepping out easily
with my burden, is a concrete example
of man’s progress, a recapitulation of the
evolution of civilization; and we are
the pioneers, hewing our way through
the untamed forests, planting here and
there the sign of our presence, overcoming difficulties and easing the
path of those who follow us in the
march of progress.

By this time I had reached the foot
of the hill I was to climb, the distance
to the summit of which was approximately one-half mile. The buoyant
air had begun to feel a little less buoyant and the pleasant beams of sun
were causing perspiration to dampen
my forehead. Nevertheless I began
the ascent with great vigour. The
steep incline basked in *he afternoon

sunshine showing many difficulties.
Boulders, allen trees and clinging
vines impeded my progress. After

the first hundred yards of ascent my
breath came in great gasps that stretched my lungs to the limit.

Perspiration was running from every
pore in my body, while the fifty pounds
was rapidly changing from a pleasant
recreation to a real nuisance. I heartened myself by reciting snatches of
poetry as, “‘I climbed the dark brow of
the mighty Helvellyn” and ‘Excelsior’.
The hill seemed to become steeper, the
rocks and windfalls more numerous,
and the slightly slanting rays of the
sun most vindictive. My jaunty step
was subdued to a slow, heavy tread;
but I strove mightily upward.

At last human nature could stand
no. more and I sat down. How cool
the damp earth felt! How sweet the
light breeze blowing across my moist
brow! I sighed with contentment as
| leaned back in the straps of the
pack which was propped up against
a tree. A few minutes rest greatly
heartened me and, with a determined
effort, I performed the acrobatic stunt
of arising to my feet with my burden
on my back.

Once more I began the difficult
ascent. Once more the perspiration
flowed and the straps bit into my
tired shoulders.

Oh, for the level pavement of civilization; for the refreshing coolness of
the soda fountain to remove a thirst
that was beginning to resemble that of
the fiery pit!

By this time I was pulling myself
up by means of the trees on either
side of the trail, which meandered up
the hill with no seeming end. Frequent
rests brought small relief, for the effort
of getting to an erect posture more
than counter balanced the relaxation.
“This is not a man’s work,” I considered, ‘‘It would be more appropriate
for a horse”’.

I began what I thought was the
ascent of the last incline, only to find
the trail stretching before me aggravatingly.

What a life! What a pile of bunk
has been written about the ‘Forest
primaeval”’, ‘‘The stately pines", ‘“‘the
magnificent works of nature’! Give
me the city with its comforts and
conveniences. Take me far from this
raw, wild life, where nature delights
in conquering and subduing impotent
man. Give m@.........6:

But, at that moment, as my thoughts
were reaching out to the great intangible for alms, to soothe my labouring
body and sorely wrought spirit,

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
   
  
   
   
   
  
  
  
 
   
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  

long

   

I arose from
my hands and knees, a mode of travel
I had found it necessary to affect for
some five minutes past, and, with re
espied my destination.

newed vigour finished the ascent.

Life isn’t so bad after all. A few
difficulties present themselves but a
strong body and a keen mind will
always overcome life’s trials. With a
little perservance we can always reach
the goal, no matter how rough the road
or how steep the ascent.

The head of the engineering party
stood on the site of construction and
frowned at me. ‘How much time do
you require to carry up a small bag
of cement’’, he inquired as I dropped
my load and fell over totally exhausted.

“Cement?” I managed to wheeze
from my bursting lungs, “I've got here
a ton of sand, more or less."

“Of all the numbskulls.”” was the
soothing reply. “We have already
twice as much sand as we need. Throw
that away and go down for that bag
of cement and make it snappy’.

What a life!

 

 

In my travels today I went through
one of the most interesting museums
I have ever had the good fortune to
visit. It was a printing house preserved in Antwerp since the latter part
of the sixteenth century. My interest
was probably aroused by the fact that
for one year I edited a paper and was
therefore quite charmed in examining
this old printing house, for which
reason I have persuaded myself that
the following account might be of
interest to you.

Plantim, a Frenchman, came _ to
Antwerp in 1549. He became a bookbinder and later a printer. He printed
one fine work after another until
finally he took it into his head to publish a polyglot bible. This was such an
excellent work that the Emperor
Charles V, gave him a monopoly of all
ecclesiastical printing in the. Empire.
Plantim became immensely rich. He
built a house which is now the museum
and most of his time ‘was given to the
production of plates which rival the
masterpieces of the illuminators. This
house of Plantim’s still stands. His
son-in-law, Moretius carried on the
business and from generation to generation there was a Maretius to watch the
original home and keep it as he left it.
Finally in 1875 the family sold the house
to the city of Antwerp which keeps it
as it was in Plantim’s time, even dressing the guards in imperial dress for
festive occasions.

The house is a great rectangle with
heavily barred windows and _ thick
walls towards the street, but with a
beautiful court inside, which is surrounded by a fine old Flemish arcade.
The house, office, shops etc. form a
continuous building around the court.
One enters into the parlours where
still are to be seen the family portraits
and where the original tapestries adorn
the walls. All these rooms have high
oak wainscoting and the timber ceilings
are black with time. At the far end is
a series of offices and Plantim’s daybook is still upon his desk, his bills and
receipts are still in the pigeon holes.
One of these office rooms is now used
as a display room for valuable prints.
Among them is a copy of the [first
printed bible. It is in a heavy. black
print and each letter is clearly cut.
[t is, perhaps, one of the most valuable
books in existence. In the room was
also some of Plantim’s own work.
Each volume is now worth a king’s
ransom, and well they may be for there
is no such printing done now.

Along a third side was the printing
work. First the room for the proof
readers, then the room for paper and
finally came the printing room. On
one side were the composers’ tables
with the various letters still in their
slots. On the other side were the
hand presses. While I was there a
guard ran off a couple of copies of a
sonnet by Plantim from the original type
which is still kept in the case.

Upstairs are the rooms which contain
the most valuable of all, Plantim’s
plates. Many of these are wood cuts.
There are examples of wood cuts in all
stages of completion. There are also
many copper plates and these are
perhaps the most valuable things in
the plate collection, for many of them
are from the hand of Rubens.

Finally there is the room where the
lead was melted and where the various
blocks were prepared for the type.

This museum is indeed a wonderful
thing because it gives an accurate
idea how a wealthy artisan of the
sixteenth century worked and what he
would call home.

—E. V.

(Ed. Note—The above ts an extract
from a letter written by a traveller on the
continent and edited by one of the university students.)

Speaking of Acadia....Can anyone
tell us who was the boy-friend Nalda

[| Fillmore was displaying?

 

 

 

News From Abroad

long period of time. The average time of a student stay in a
university is four years and it can be readily seen that there would
not be a great deal of continuity between two conventions.

The Gazette puts these facts before the students of Dalhousie
in order that they may understand the new union and in order
that they may consider the advisability of joining such a federation.

SOPHOMORES WIN
FIRST DEBATE
OE SEASON

Co-education Is Good Is
Decision Of Assembly

On Wednesday night the Munro room
was the battle ground of the eternal
forensic feud between Sophomore and
Freshman.

Don Finlayson, Freshman, opened
attack against coeducation, declaring
Girls come to college to catch a husband,—
Girls are lacking conspicuously in
common sense.'’ He now thinks that
the library is not a library but the place
where coeds judiciously display silk
stockings.

‘Frankie’ Elkin, Sophomore, opened
fire for doeducation declaring “‘Before
long every institution will have coeducation.”” Miss Elkin referred to
classical antiquity. “‘Coeducation was in
vogue in Theos in Capua."’ Coeducation
she believed had the home for model.
‘“‘Why"’ cried she, ‘‘the girls are inspired
by the presence of the ‘eds’ at our games.’
Her speech had substance.

Eleanor Foster, Freshette, retaliated
by contending that coeducation forced
boys and girls on each other. Girls
should go in for Household Science,
is her idea. The co-ed is losing her
charm. She is becoming hardened.
She should go in for Household Science.
Miss Foster is somewhat shy.

George Mahon, Sophomore, supporting coeducation claimed that the much
sought-for college spirit is brought
into college by the girls. ‘‘Woman is a
great cultural influence in College,’’
maintained Mhaon. He held Dalhousie up as an example where colducation is sending forth men and women
who are receiving recognition in every
branch of life. Mahon spoke clearly.

Herbie Davidson ex-pres. Sodales
honoured the meeting with a few pointed
remarks on the value of debating.

Mr. Dubinsky, rose to support the
“cause of his brethren”, the Freshmen.

Prof. Horace Read using several apt
fables, delivered an interesting clique.
_ Rod MacLeod, pres. of-Sodales very
interestingly outlined the program for
the year. He hopes to draw greatly and
quality to Sodales Debating. Teams
will be chosen to debate McGill, Acadia
and Kings.

The audience was very representative
and appreciative. The judges. Elizabeth Frame, Tom Coffin and Ben
Guss, returned a verdict for Co-education.

nr eeeieenpeeeipeemmarmans

THE DAL .CREDO

By Karl Kampus
and Sam Studley

 

 

 

_ Author's Note—George Jean Nathan
the foremost dramatic critic on this side
of the Atlantic published recently his
“New American Credo'' being «a
collection of the ideas,.conceipts and
beliefs, erroneous and otherwise current
among the citizens of the great republic
to the south of us. Following in his
ead the compi ers of this short ist have
endeavored to enumerate some of the
dogma more or less prevaent among
Dalhousians. These are set down in no
spirit of levity or exaggeration and
with no regard as to their correctness
or tncorrectness.

1. That college spirit at Dal is at
a greater level than ever before.
2. That Dalhousie has no .college

spirit.
3. That Ritchie McCoy is the

only thing that stops Dal from winning

the City Football League, and as he
will be here no longer Dal is practically
certain to win.

4. That Prof. Bennet has ‘‘It’’.

5. That Dalhousie is patterned
after and is closely similar to, the
University of Edinburgh.

6. That if one takes a girl to the
Junior-Senior one is practically certain
of a “‘bid”’ to the Delta Gamma Dance.
7. That the wearing of a sweater to
lectures lowers one’s social standing
but it is permissible to wear one to lab.

8. That male students boarding in

town are ‘booted out” at least three
times a year.
_ 9. That an Engineer’s chief desire
is to wear high boots and riding breeches.
_10. That the meetings of the Delta
Gamma Society are wholly occupied in
discussing men.

npn
Prof. Hunt is back with us, after a

leave of absence.

as

   

 

ay
ae

 

   

THE LIFE OF A
LITTLE COLLEGE

SSS

The Commerce Society started its
activities for the year last Thursday,
when it met for the first meeting of the
term. Prof. Hunt, who was _ elected
Honorary President, gave a brief address, which was greatly appreciated
by the financiers. A social committee
was appointed to make arrangements
for a Commerce Party. S. H. Baird,
the president of the society was in the
chair.

*_* *&

The Biology club made a very promising start Tor the year when it held
its first meeting last Thursday night in
the Physiology Theatre. A_ record
crowd attended and a general air of
enthusiasm prevailed. Mabel Borden,
the vice-president, was in the chair in
the absence of the president, James
Fraser. Dr. Boris Babkin delivered
an exceedingly interesting lecture which
was greatly enjoyed by the students.
After the business part of the meeting
a social period was enjoyed, during
which refreshments were served.

The formal opening of the Commerce House was held on the evening
of Wednesday the eighteenth. Distinguished visitors included include
Dr. A. S. Mackenzie, and Prof. Hunt,
Honorary President, of the Society.

Both the men’s and women's branches
of the S. C. A. are looking forward
with pleasure to a visit from the General
S. C. A. Secretary for Canada, Mr.
Murray Brooks, who is coming here
about the first of November.

+

The members of the law school were
perplexed, for a whole day by the
problem. ‘Can a man marry his widow’s sister?’ Hebb said there was
nothing against it in the Bible. Walsh
maintained it was permissable in New
foundland. Several members are still
perplexed. They can find no LAW
against it.

x * *
One of the freshettes taking biology

has stated that the anatomy professor
is the only member of the medical

faculty wearing a beard. Page Wm.
Fry.
*~* *
Professor Sydney D. Pierce, who

taught Political Science here last year,
is now holding a responsible position
with the Associated Press in New
York City.

* a @

According to the seating arrangements in English 9, some of the lads
will be sitting in the girls’ laps. And
who more pleased than I?

*x

Sherriff Hall

O.—What are you doing tonight?

QO.—The same.

O.—I'll ring you.
x * *

Who was the Freshette who thought
that she was going to sing ‘Yield not
to temptation’’?

* * *

Prof. Horace Read is still being congratulated on his new title—Father.
It's a girl. Can we anticipate a new
lady student in the Law School?

INFIRMARY BULLETIN

Dr. Daldent, D.
further announce that the clinic
mentioned in the last bulletin, will
take the form of the Dalhousie Dental
Dance which will be held on Nov.
l4th, in the Dal gym. This will be a
sure cure for all human ailments and
a large attendance is expected.

Futility

Bound with the thongs of dreams
Falling from star to star,

Seeking always the deathless things
That perfect are—

My soul, with broken wings,

Cries that it cannot see,

And beats against the door of life
Eternally.

 

D. S., wishes to

 

My heart can hear the jeers

Of restless joy that binds

My hands, stilling their pot’s lay,
And mockery finds

The beauty hidden away

Behind my dreaming eyes,

While laughter clings to fragile
) dreams
With scornful cries.

—Eileen Cameron, °29

OO

vt

GREGIRON

af
Dalhousie Students

and athletics

including fine quality sweaters
Colors.

in our Sporting Goods Department

in Dalhousie

i _ i)

ny Lay z e * .
_ from such a federation of colleges. The wide separation of the

_ universities seems to be the greatest stumbling block. The ex
Dalhousie should not be behind other universities in the matter
if the new movement will benefit this university or Canadian
universities as a whole. At the same time, it must be remembered
that the Federation is only in its formative stage, an uncertain
stage from which may emerge a success or a failure. Considering
the unions in Great Britain and on the continent success of the
movement would appear to be fairly certain.

ats! er is not yet complete nor are its aims assured. However,
| __ it can be seen that there are a great many benefits which can accrue
baa
pA penses of conventions would be too great to hold such meetings
@ fo ok Mike uently. The present plans of the organization are to hold
_-—s«@:‘representative meeting every four years, which seems a rather

or a

will find all equipment needed for their games

      
 
i ‘See us before the Annual Dance.

.
,

4
——
~~ 2

Parlors east of
—and only then out
All our operators
uates — experts —in

'y phase of Beauty Culture
all equipment is modern

Y Your patronage is solicited,
_ and we warrant complete sat
_ isfaction from a manicure to
| @ permanent wave.

BY
i

| Sack. 3850 for appointment.

‘
x

| THE WOOD BROS Co., }\i

| singularly easy, to others singularly

Limited

| “say iT WITH

t
i

ral
4
3

hy
o

A te
- Se

of
a

oy
.
:
_
Th

| CHINA, CUT GLASS

_ Gifts selected from our showing of high-class China, Cut
Glass, Hollow Silverware, and
Community Plate make useful
and appreciative gifts, for the
Bride, the Home or for the
; | Anniversary.
|

Webster, Smith Co.

LIMITED
Direct Importers

174-176 Granville Street, at
Buckingham Street

Halifax, N. S.

+

The Greatest Asset of a busimess is to give customers
what they want—when they
want tt,

JOB AND SOCIETY PRINTING

always delivered when
promised at the

Nova Print Limited

227-229 Hollis Street
One Block North of Post Office

}|| student as he passes throu

i|his fellow. The interests,

|The Rotlo Boys

Among the honours coveted by t

university is a “IT”, honour

}|™may be won in foot-ball, basket-ball

or hockey in the line of sport. A
‘special honour, a literary “‘D", may

||| be won by contributing to the Gazette.

It is not everyone. who can acquire

}}a “D” in sport for everyone has not

the n ualities to make him

t q
|) or her an athlete of first class calibre.

In senior sports, for which the emblem
is granted the sphere is restricted to a

. vada of the members of the student

yIt is not so with the literary ‘‘D’’.
Everyone with a college education or
who is engaged in acquiring a college
education should be able to express
is ideas on paper. To some it is

hard; but every student can, with a
little diligence and patience, express in
readable form his or her thoughts and
ideas. Thus, it can be clearly seen,
that, although a student may not
be able to reach the heights of athletic
fame, he can, with diligence, acquire
literary distinction to a certain degree.
_ The literary ‘“‘D” came into existence in 1920 as a reward to those
students who had made worthy contributions to the university paper. The
prized emblem is presented to the
successful students in the form of a
gold “‘D” suitably engraved. It is
awarded on points, twenty-five being
the number that makes the contributor
eligible for the honor. Points are
awarded on the basis of merit and
amount of contributions. The eligible
contributions include the full scope of
university life. Prose and poetry, storles, articles, and accounts of college
activities are all considered. By contributing to the Gazette you not only
place yourself on the list of those eligible
for literary honors but you also help
to mould student thought and cultivate
your Own mind and intelligence.

Thoughts and ideas are the “animus,”
the soul of a university. Must these
thoughts be breathed into us from the
faculty, until we stand as _ bloated
balloons to be swayed by every breeze
that blows, or shall we build up and expand the ‘‘animus’ ourselves? It is
better that we carefully cultivate our
own minds under supervision than
that we allow supervision to change
to a wholesale cultivation by the
“powers that be’’.

Consider a comparison between two

|| gardens; first, a large strip of land laid

off in straight but monotonous rows
with depressing regularity—a_ useful
unornamental entity, and, second, a
small home garden with its variegated
vegetable life and unceasing change.
The first has been cultivated ‘‘en masse”,
each Sit a sterotyped reproduction of
economic
in nature and the guiding hand are
from without. The second is a mixture
of the useful and the ornamental,
delighting the eye with its riot of colors

Hi] and? changing possibilities. The in
iA NAIA ANNAN none recor
jf FOUNTAIN PENS

_ |) stRENGTH

"TEXT BOOKS
_ Special orders promptly executed

| FARRELL’S

391 Barrington St.

The BEST

_ | SPORT NEWS

will be found
in

The

|| Balitax Chroniele

AND
«The
Balifax Daily Star

;

Y | Globe Laundry Ltd.

50 Buckingham Street

|| G. W. SPRAGUE, Vice-Pres.
C. W. SPRAGUE, Pres.

|The College Students’

:
an
7
_
of

Telephone S 714

STABILITY

terests here are from within. For its

beauty and intrinsic worth was it

cultivated—not sterotyped.

. The exchange of ideas cultivates the
mind but these ideas must be put
forward in such a way that the mind
may be susceptible to them.

In the spoken word we have a vehicle
for transmitting ideas but sociologists
tell us that emotions are more easily
conveyed by words than are ideas.
Emotions are not of the lasting timber
of true ideas, yet in the spoken word the
influence of the former may overcome
the salutary effects of the latter.

Is it so with the written word? It
would appear not, for the reader can
digest and weigh the subject written
and blow the froth from the underlying
liquid. Thus we can see that the
written word is, indeed, a powerful
vehicle. Use it in the columns of your
paper—The Garette.

i
Gi. V. V. Nichols Writes
for Historical Review

The September number of The
Canadian Historical Review contains
an article by George V. V. Nichols,
‘“‘A Forerunner of Joseph Howe.” It is
a careful study of the Wilkie case.
In 1820 William Wilkie published a
pamphlet attacking the wealthy clique
who mismanaged the affairs of Halifax.
He was indicted for criminal libel,
found guilty and sentenced to two
years in the House of Correction, with
hard labor.

Dathousie Stationery

24 Sheets Writing Paper
stamped with the Dalhousie Crest and 24 Envelopes to match.

Special 50c Box
Connolly's Book Shop

487 BARRINGTON ST.
Opposite St. Paul’s Church

SERVICE

Institutions like Individuals are judged by results.

| THE SUN LIFE ASSURANCE CO OF CANADA

Th t of its kind in the BRITISH EMPIRE offers to intending
pete ees Piecrese tie best in the field of Life Insurance.

Direct an inquiry for information as to “How to make your future

Income

Secure.’

to W. W. BARRY,

Dalhousie

r Ba
ie a
‘ i 23 , tet
re bs apt, 1 Pe o a fi : “ ‘
Ly eae eet oa aT : Fi
pari % I a 7" 7 ‘, ‘
' /

re y

. (a The A) ep
= 8) ys
- 4 . F _

Pees? vig” oes ae ee ae es Be oe eee

=

or How Tom
No, 47921

CHAPTER I.

‘Are you there, Tom?”

“Yes, are you, Dick?"

“Here I am,” replied Dick, seriously.
“Alright”, said Tom, with a sly
i “but you mustn’t

“Why not?” asked poor Dick, falling
into the trap, and emerging with torn
clothes.

“‘Because,'’ chuckled Tom, merrily,
“Tt’s not aloud.” Tom was a_ funloving Rollo and was well known for his
jokes and pranks so that people often
sought him out—sometimes with bloodhounds. He wasacurly-eyed, laughinghaired youth of nineteen and had an
uncle who thought that Acadia was the
best college in the Maritimes.

“Well”, said the fun-loving Rollo,
“we'll have to hurry boys, I promised
Dr. Merriwell that we'd have a look
at the bottom of the Atlantic this
morning.”

“Yes,” said Dick, ‘‘but how are we
going to get down?”

“Off a goose's back,"’ came back Tom
like a steel trap, and even Dick had to
laugh in spite of himself.

‘“Let’s see about getting some equipment,’ said Harry.

Accordingly the three boys set out
for town; they had not gone far when a
sign caught Tom's eye, making a hasty
jagged tear,

“SUITS IN DIVERS PATTERNS”

CHAPTER 4}

“These suits should be just the thing
for us,’ cried Tom, “we have a heavy
day of deep-sea diving ahead of us.”

The three boys rushed into the shop
and came out vested in some natty
Kampus Kut Kollejit Klothes, all set
for their stirring adventure. They
rushed along the road towards their
goal, which was at the east end of the
field. Suddenly Harry cried out ‘‘Look
what's that ahead?”

“I think it’s the next chapter,” said
Dick slowly.

CHAPTER 65c.

“So it is,’ agreed Tom, ‘‘and there’s
the sea Just beyond.”

Giggling with suppressed excitement
the boys lined up along the cliff and gazed at the water. Suddenly the bank gave
gave way under them and they went
sliding down the cliff into the water.

‘“‘Down to the sea in slips,’’ cried Tom,
laughingly as the boys disappeared
under the waves.

Down, down and down sank the
Rollos. At last, after a diligent search
they found themselves at the bottom
of the sea. Strange fish swam past
them, gazing with dull, expressionless
eyes at our heroes. A hulk loomed up
before them in the greeny darkness.

“Look,” cried Harry, ‘‘an old wreck."

“Sure enough,” agreed Tom, slyly,
“Jack Atwood.”

“No it’s a wrecked ship,” said Dick,
seriously, “‘let’s see if we can find any
treasure.”

“Wait!” screamed Harry excitedly,
“someone's fooling with our air-line;
IT’S DAN BAXTER!”

« Spey oul ‘ey YY,, screamed the
villain, for as he was above them, his

words came to the boys upside down,
S381 Jo yord & axl] NOA uUMOIP J], |

‘9UNI} STY} Sayo NS aur apnya 7,uoM 34,,

“Curse you,” screamed Harry, ‘‘we
are powerless, but at least we can comto
our death like American gentlemen."’
The boys then acted out alittle pageant
of the signing of the Declaration of
Independence, followed by two choruses of The Star Spangled Banner.
Dan meanwhile was hacking away at
the air-line.

Just as the boys had given up all
hope, the faithful battleship Oregon
came steaming across the bay. ‘‘Boomboom’’. The guns boomed. ‘“Crackcrack” the rapid fire guns cracked, and
had to be discarded. With a howl of
rage Dan Baxter dropped his knive and
rowed hurriedly away.

The strong arms of the sailors pulled
the boys up by the side of the ship.
“Three cheers for the Rollo Boys!”
shouted the Captain.

“Three cheers for the Rollo Boys!’
shouted the sailors tossing their little
white caps in the air and cheering
lustily.

“What have you got there, Dick?’’
asked Harry to the other Rollo, who

Gauvin & Gentzel
Photographers
&

18 Spring Garden Road
Phone Sac. 692

PARTMENT of the
Imperial Publishing Co.,
Limited, is famous for
the quality of its press
work, on Booklets, Catalogues, and all kinds of
Job Printing.

Telephone Sackville 1017

Get in Deep,

5 t oo ¢ ve
ee ae, A ’
=a ee ic = al
a te

a

was Absolutely Sunk

= dragging a heavy chest across the
eck,
“T found it on the old wrec.”’ replied
Dick.

“Open it, open it,” cried all the
sailors, jumping up and down excitedly.

With feverish haste, the boys pried
open the lid. ‘‘What is it? What is
it?” asked the sailors.

“It is the next volume of the Rollo
Boys Series,"’ said Harry,”’ to be entitled The Rollo Boys at the Infirmary,
or How Tom Taught His Chums to
Play Foot-ball.”’

“ And here let us say Good-bye,

““Good-bye”’
—W. G. A. '29

That Wayward
Bell.

This is the story of a wayward bell.
A wayward chapel bell at that!

Last year Mt. A. defeated U. N. B.
in a game that was predicted as a win
for U. N. B. As a result the Mt. A.
boys en masse turned out to paint
the town red. And, as the town in
question was only “two by twice,”’
this painting didn’t take very long.

In the absence of something to do,
the boys began to think. They thought
that they were entitled to a holiday!
Their superiors thought otherwise, and
that’s where the trouble started.

The young men in a college are
something to be reckoned with. Haven't
they been told time and time again
that they would be the statesmen, the
poets, the scientists..... As petty as
college life may appear from College
Humor, there 1s yet on the campus
great importance attached to all college
activities. There is an animus, a
spirit that can move mountains. And
when your college is victorious this
“animus” receives a great inflation;
and so it happened at Mt. A. But the
inflation clashed violently with the
refusal for a holiday.

This refusal was absolutely the
greatest violation of justice! Hadn't
they won the game? Hadn't they
earned a holiday? Oh what has become
of justice?

Now came a silence. A calm as
before a storm. Then a leader of men
cried: ‘‘No Sir! we will not go to class!
We will have a holiday tomorrow!
Come on boys! Down with the Chapel
Bell whose hateful clang breaks our
morning slumbers.

And so it happened they didn't
hear the Chapel Bell next morning.
And they haven’t heard it from that
day to this. Why? Well that’s just
what this story’s about: A Wayward
Chape Bell!

They hid the Chapel bell in a freight
car. But freight cars these days have
a peculiar habit of moving on; they are
subject to change of address without
notice. 5

When the boys showed u
morning, gone was the freight
Gone was the Chapel Bell!

After several months the bell was
reported as having been seen in Saint
John, Halifax, Montreal But
strange as it may seem the bell is now
in Fredericton. What? Notat U. N. B?
Yes sir! Mt. A's. Chapel Bell is at
U.N.B.

How it ever got there is part of the
secret history of college life. It is
one of those inexplicable acts of fate that
savours very much of retribution.

—B. R. G.
Oo

next
car!

HINTS FOR DANCE COMMITTEES

(1) Have the Gym. temperature 80
degrees F. This is to prevent a
dance being slow. Heat being
conducive to motion—also to comfort.

Provide identification tags, to
be worn around the neck. This
should prove a great boon to those
seeking partners to whom they
have just been introduced.
Non-spilling punch glasses—or packages of Rex.

Director to handle traffic jam
between dances.

Dictagraphs to prevent delay
when saying goodnight to chaperones.

Somebody to write up dance
who knows a synonym for “best
yet”.

George F. Power
Cigars Cigarettes, Tobaccos
SMOKERS’ REQUISITES

of every Description.

—Also—

Cards, Souvenirs of Halifax

Majestic Bldg.
HALIFAX $3

YOUR BARBER!

CENTRAL—The nearest Barber
Shop to the College.

SERVICE—Always four experianced barbers in attendance.

SATISFACTION GUARANTEED

Special Bobbing Parlors
For Ladies

A. PUBLICOVER

23 Spring Garden Road

fe. SE at ee to af Fs ate.
. . y . ve ‘i " woe 6 } re a fx 2
eA PEP iAT tad). raks
A “id Th

rel at

1
»

Something for Sed ales

Whatever art may interest a man,
whatever profession a man may follow,
in whatever business a man may
engaged, occasions will arise when on
his ability to convince an audience of
‘the plausibility of his arguments will
depend perhaps his own success, perhaps vital issues involving the interests
he represents.

Does not every successful doctor
sometime in his career, wish to introduce new methods to his profession?
—lIs not every lawyer constantly faced
with the problem of convincing the
court that his contentions are correct.
—Does not every financier, in the
interest of economic progress, find it
necessary to sway director's meetings?

Everyone, almost without exception,
whether in public or private life will
at sometime or another be called upon
to address an audience and to convey
to them his thoughts, ideas, opinions.
The most expedient method is by speech.
To support this contention we have
but to read our histories.

The recognition by the students of
the need for the development of the
oratorical ability has given rise to the
birth and development of the Dalhousie Debating Society. Sodales meets
every other Wednesday evening in the
Munro Room.

Notice of these meetings are posted
in the main hall of the various buildings. These notices constitute a cordial invitation to you to come and
enjoy an evening's entertainment, and
to put forth vour views on the subject
under discussion. In his earnest desire
to have these subjects of personal
interest the president Rod. McLeod
invites your suggestions as to what
these subjects shall be.

Every year Dalhousie debates with
other colleges. Oxford and Cambridge,
McGill, Mt. Alltson, St. Francis Xavier;
these teams are composed of the men
and women whose debating prowess
has been developed by Sodales. It is
up to you to see that the personnel
of the team is composed of Dalhousie's
best.

oo

THAT PASS IN THE NIGHT

A. L. Murphy

(Continued from Page 1)
weakly to the floor seeking shelter
under the rear end of the car. His
chance had come! He could hear them
speaking in low tones. The voices
sounded vaguely familiar! Then the
lights snapped off and two figures
passed out beside him and shut the
doors.

A new light shone in John Mannering’s eyes. He felt his way about for
a few moments and then ran to the
doors. They were locked. He cried
aloud and beat it with hie fists, but all
in vain. It was fully fifteen minutes
before he gave in and _ exhausted,
drenched with rain and cold, clammy
mud, he subsided on the concrete
floor. And there nursing his swollen
ankle between his two bruised hands

he wailed, ‘‘The next time my chauffeur |

goes to my garage for my car to take
my maid on a midnight drive without
asking my permission [’ll—I'Il—’’

He paused inarticulate; the cat was
asleep; so the screen door strove on

alone.
So

23rd PSALM—a la Freshman

The Soph. is my keeper. I shallnot want another. He maketh me an
initiation: he causeth me to sit down in
wet places. He troubleth my _ soul.

He guideth me in the tracks of foolish- ||

ness, for my namesake. Yea though
I walk on open campus, I fear much
evil. For his wiles and his rods discomfort me. He prepareth trouble
for me in the presence of mine co-eds.
He anointeth my head with shoe polish;
my tears runneth over. Surely
goodness if this thing follow me all the
days of my life I will dwell in the bughouse forever. —B. R. G.

Winters-Burns Ltd

Exclusive Agents for

Society Brand Clothes

Now Showing New Fall Styles
Correct Dress for Students

437 BARRINGTON STREET

to | |

STUDENTS’
Leather Portfolios
Made by
‘*KELLYS-HALIFAX”

are very superior and low
priced

KELLYS

LIMITED

116-118 Granville Street
*““LUGGAGE THAT LASTS”

YELLOW CAB

LIMITED
SAC. 4444

Halifax’s Only Metered
Service

Same Rates 24 Hours.
Two travel for same as one.
More than two, 20 cents extra.

SAVE MONEY!

ON YOUR LOOSELEAF
SUPPLIES—SEE

FRANK M. O?NEILL

& CO., LTD.
152 Granville Street

Complete stock of Loose Leaf
Books, Refills, Pencils Pens, ete.

The Ross Print Ltd
95 ARGYLE STREET
Printers 
Bookbinders

We specialize in SOCIETY WORK

PUBLISHERS OF CAMERON'S

“ Regional Anatomy ”
“ Osteology and Arthrology ”’

Orders delivered same day rece‘ved.

Phone S. 1958

Say it with Flowers, Say it with ours
THE HOME OF

Cut Flowers XK Potted Plants

We make up Funeral Designs,
also Wedding Bouquets. We also
do Table Decorating. We are the
only members of the T. F. D. Florists. We can wire Flowers to
all parts of the world.

The Roserp

8 BLOWERS ST.
Phone Sac. 3321-3322
Night Phone Sac. 1934

SEE WALLACE

Y.M. Cc. A. BLOG. HALIFAX, N.S

 -Paphiehee te”

,
i

|

I
OPTOMETRIST AND OPTICIAN §

|

Nova Scotia Technical College

Offers
ENGINEERING COURSES

in
CIVIL, ELECTRICAL, MECHANICAL AND MINING
To Dalhousie Students with Engineering Diploma
MODERN EQUIPMENT

Instructing Staff with
Tuition Fee $75.00 per year.

Industrial il
Twenty-five scholarships of $75.00 each

Experience

Write or call for Calendar or advice.

F. H. SEXTON, Pres.

COLLEGIANS!!!

Where do you go Saturday Night?
SATURDAY NIGHT DANCE

MASONIC HALL, 9 to 12 p.m.

Joe Mills and his Orchestra

Irresistable Rhythm— Harmony Galore

Ladies 35c.

Gentlemen 50c.

———.

a

 
     
 
  
   
   
   
  
  
 
   

were chosen from the bravest
most skillful of all the men in the
land and they rode forth, not so much
to save as to aid the fair. |
These were learned men, renown

‘i | fe - skill lin the most difficult of crafts— 5 : of his friends and relatives,
ag _ of healing. They were taught J. ee germane revailed as at the Kindergarten.| generation in a most unusual manner
F lead by one, St. Joho of Jerusalem, Sec'y.-Treas., i. he orders, the commissions, the| provides a startling climax.

the ‘most skillful in this art, at that

ed | detail upon application. .

"Students? Counci
1926
Report

Zi.

 

Students for the scholastic year 1926-27.

DALHOUSIE GARETTE

To permit of publication this report needs be, to an extent, concise—and

it is perhaps unintelligible to a number of the students.

However, if there are

any students sufficiently interested they may investigate the finances more in

Yours very truly,

 

ae oS

Three chubby little fellows played at
toy soldiers in kindergarten. How

 

Ah this was their day....the day of
make-believe .... Realty? Wait till
they grow older

A group of boys aged seven or eight
played war about the cannons in an
old deserted fort. The same seriousness

despatches, the wounded, the doctors.
The warfare itself: the uneven ground

Captain Salvation

A vividly dramatic sea story that
will bring to the screen one of the

 

    
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 

Lay
days when knighthood serious they were One would think] greatest cases ever seen in one fea: y were in yogue an brave that in truth the lives of a thousand fe roduction is what is offered Alias The Lone Wolf
nde forth on fiery steeds to aid men were in their hands. Their lips} by ‘‘Captain Salvation,’ which will be With Bert Lytel
‘rescue fair maidens, there was Rilitor Gasette.-—’ were set, their foreheads wrinkled as} on view at the Casino Theatre for three ANOTHER-LYTEL-MILESTONE
the Order, ights of St. John re ae = . : 2 ‘ 4 Bi Ge ah. € + aw heal they manoeuvered their little soldiers} days beginning Monday, October 24th.
salem. The ights of this ear Sir —Enclosed please find financial report 0 e Council oO ©! back and forth on the floor. Among the noted cast are Lars Hanson, THU. FRI. SAT.

Ernest Torrence, Pauline Starke, Marceline Day, George Fawcett and Flora
Finch. The story deals with the life
of a divinity student, who forsakes
his calling because of the ean

is re
|ORPHEUS

Old San Francisco

THE PICTURE OF THE YEAR

= =e

MON, TUE. WED.

  

WITH
Delores Costello

 

NOTICE!

   
 
 
   

 

       
     
   
     
   
      

 

  

 

 

 

 

 

     

 

pa em oe # sr a any a eee ee ee Recei E di affording trenches; the huge rock
 -knowledge of the work done by eceipts xpenditure ies - Special Students’ Di t
‘Rim’ and his brave follower: "THY patance 1925-26...........4:000vscccsseseese go 4.16 afording camps, hiding places. This 1 COT | RGE roe See tag
were trained in the use of sp it ; Ms
ey ages, in the knowledge of herbs Student DRMNEN ET yt eam et nD :5 ns ee algo WM AR ACH 4704.00 This was their day. . _ the day of co Pe DO hi 8
and in all manner of healing. ; make-believe’.... Reality? Wait till ;
ae ie hae 3 ad al ny | Students’ Council they grow older. Men’s Store
Meee got Bappened alter MANY) © Dances... ... 6 1c. bese eee be cece scent teeters $ 146.45 221.55
-—-years the art of ‘first aid'’ became Salary (Sec.-éreas) 100.00 ube = ee — aged fifteen
ay aon ‘ MAMET. Odie ainhd eV ie ong Od deal= Smee a OMaa iAgaAta two. evoupe—
etre porn and terre ae] Yeeros a ole ease es, gm. ||| -AND OVERCOATS- fe
efi “irons order, the St. John Ambulance a ry postage, stationery, printing......... 47.37 166.35 Each group feared the other and also at C ASINO
ee Aaslonce Austiation| OS once WASH. IL 7) ean ait satis whe wer )
rr ie ‘ ia represented in the Maritime ree g 193.82 827.79 ane Berar Ad loigaees yale Popular Prices THIS THUR. FRI. SAT.
een Ba ; } ‘ , e packs on their backs.’ e exBie oe eet ea ie held several rc 598 65 1341.72 | Pression of expectancy, ne suppressed GARY COOPER
Remrepereant pumice postions ta 1712) ge II 162.85 598.31] OES eee 2 ericiors of fortune. You dont have 8 ee OU
7 Be jae, appointed Medical Advisor) paseethall 0000001000000. rr it ge ee reece wee Deuter col fnktons uci ee
~" ee ik the Red Cross Se neue 1856 Riera aie ey ee teal believe. .. Reality? Wait till they fe By See tatee ea ONE
t him to France as Overseas Com- ; Rorasne Wa Ay ares a Ray seins Se4 ““* | grow older! ake of Scotland Yard’’
ge as which post he retained until $ 908.95 2578.43] At college eight hundred young men we offer you the s :
the end of the war. Since then he has| , “““ {and women hustle and bustle to and igaht Ge oranutiel tarring Hayden Stevenson
devoted his time and ability to the re. i 730.71 fro from buildings. Serious browed, pEeY »&
--_--« §t. John Ambulance Association. Beet ee ace ie eee yk 310 47 Sacre eal youths, with voluminuos balance and dis- SNOOKUMS COMEDY
a Mipsad sovoungon fare. Col. Hodgetts n.GUk.C 1041.18 “The Natta the tarksdenein with tnetive cut) -that NEXT MON. TUE. WED.
. when he addresses the Dalhousie Stud-|~* “Goad De Seem MN Seis. Tat foe tae bd 27.61 eae they are conducted These are marks good custom Oct. 24, 25, 26,
rons, Oar | Basketball. cessed nceee eee BARS ANAS SON yes gree at re a a al tailoring—for prices “Captain Salvation”
pee Greet SAatern On anoneay) f CSORGTAE Bice aie reid: chee sim ele hig hed ele places 27.27). , ‘7 < , aplain Salvation
24th, at 6.15 p.m. Medical Students of ices, counsel for defence, counsel for that make ready
Dalhousie, the days of chivalry are $ 61.75 236.38 | Prosecution, all robed, serious young ed ce a A Great Sea Film
not yet past; come and learn your Seidont's tint men. This is a trial. A man's fate w
craft. ' Wages : 134.00] 35 pone per nes & sours of riser pee ‘ ith an all Star Cast
; . ae P TOS RMS eh Oe VOSA Kian eee Cee wee toe Oe ee ! this is ay. Si t e ay ea uring a ine
| Lent, Pet AIRY WATER cess. whe Tele Melee es une eye ayes of make-believe) Reality? ‘Wait till tition po x.
° rection and removal, ......00)sfe ene beeen 7.80 ae ndigo Serge, for Si eee ae ea ne nee cn
A S d Mind Coriecnt 3 81.33 87.17] We grow older!
é oun REO Fe ct thea vials ¥ dle pa tia dlale «buns ove Yesterday, we made believe. C 0 LL RE G E C 0 LO R S
In A Health Bod $ 81.33 421.52 Today, we make believe.
y y Sodalos : Tomorrow? Reality? ; We have a good supply of any
i ie : Lh Feet arid Telterco, ps hi iicis cailevvSee le bd: 225.42 376.89 And so we grow older!—B. R.G. distinctive Dalhousie stationery,
very comprehensive phrase whic MRRP Sha) so oO ali.c Dlardgtcse sree rae ale Hetie t'eblale ae 29.67 For stvle and quality with- Neat size crest, die stamped in
should be the aim of every Dalhousian ee : IAN V R out ee ey high price yellow and black on high class
ec peeetoneae eee cae nates ed $ 225.42 436.56 P OS, VICTROLAS, ‘ : parchment paper, clnb size, with
; 1 S e elta Gamma Small Musical Instru- Ty ee envelopes stamped to match, suiton side ce ie a in seats to ae Cee al eae ha ple Wnne. P88 Pee cates Aah 150.00 ments and Victor Records , : able for ladies or gentlemen.
bate goas forth into the world and who TG eitiemiat NOMENON, Ad Biloba tsBibd whic dn cer cee’ SAAB hee tea cues va Sana: ous Scotia Tailors Lid. srg ac da Rega a
have ei poet ens ct poplars BR! OR Ola te AI wikis whe erage d a's (31-88 y J you require.
among the leaders in Canada and the Reet Od dat al al aun eai nas weet ee 4.0 :
United State. Pee uate ht er cnk, i tealec ver aio6.99 2211.84] 1 FICTION LENDING LIBRARY 479 Barrington St. Faulkner’s Book Store
4 ee — Sige a this bgp ob’ ONS) Aocounta ESSE WON IN dey felonies eedlaues 22.50 2 cents per day (Opp. St. Paul's Ch.) 16 Spring Garden Road
evelo rain if we must carry 1 ie
around in m Body, broken and wesrenied $ 2196.99 2590.60
by hours of study and toi t is o ;
‘ little use and so the body too must be $ 8377.02 8282.46 McDonald Music [io
developed. aie SOMITE i Gh esvtaalenids deder ts 94.56 - sar bagaiis : :
! Syne ea thie) badly, ‘develonmacs aaa ea aN ee las If it will help Nova Scotia The
‘students here know the Studley Gym- : 1+”?
eyes re aes we many | Accounts payable O|S N. S. Tram P Power (Rink). . .$ 26.92 From the FE TALIFAX HERALD if for it
__- horrible hours are spent wri g exam-} WINNERS
inations. Allow me to present it as a J. GERALD GODSOE, St t ‘ ‘
: Sec.-Treas. 1926-27. ar new hotel for Halifax—tourist trade

Pez pace where just as many hours can} ARTHUR E. JUBIEN,
_-—sébe«s spent in the enjoyment that can] H.C. MORTON

[ come only from tompetitive games and] Audztors 1926-27. doubled—increased coal production—

agricultural development—Nova Scotia is
forging ahead. Keep in touch with daily
happenings—read

THE HALIFAX HERALD

AND

THE EVENING MAIL

“They Cover Nova Scotia’’

For 60 years the REACH Trade
Mark on Sporting Goods has been
a mark of perfection. No matter
what your favorite sport may be, we
can supply you with equipment that
will help you play the game with
the best that’s in you.

CRAGG BROS. CO. LTD.

Hardware and Sporting Goods
HALIFAX, N. S.

: MACLEOD, BALCOM,
—DRUGGISTS—

contests. It is open to you every day

and Mr. Stirling is very willing to help | ——
you. There you will find opportunities
‘to indulge in all sorts of sports and no
matter how particular you are, some; thing will appeal to you.
Start now, forget studies for an hour
and play. Even though you have
passed through many summers, play| merce House. Although the weather
f and play as you have done in years} was bad in the extreme, a large crowd
one sii Then a shower, a rub down, | attended and the evening was a decided
orget play and Sr up the psc success. Morton Kataief, Charles Maca eee. a difference you will) Kenzie and Gordon Dustan furnished
ind. Problems which before had been| the music. The chaperones were Miss

impossible will assume negligible pro-|] owe and Dr. Wilson. The party was

 

Class ’29 Party

BUTTONS ON
RENTS MENDED
HOLES DARNED

That's the service you get
free when you send YOUR

 

Class '29 held its first party for this
year last Friday evening at the Com
  

Laundry to Ungar’s.

        
   
 
    

Follow this procedure during your

college days and graduation day will HALIFAX, N.S.

portions to your brain so refreshed ; cinta 5 STORES
by a different form of exercise and the in ey Aaa abe an a A A | 34 Morris St. 174Spr. Garden Rd.
keen pleasure derived from it Jessie Gladwin, Graham ea ae VALETERI 103 Young St. _139 Agricola St.
. Forrest Musgrave. | Cor. Quinpool Rd. and Oxford St.
{
’

PROGRAMMES

 

A new pressing Service:

|| STUDENTS’ ELECTRIC

   
 
  
    
       
     
   
   
   

  
  

mind in a sound body.” | for $2.00,

| find you a person well able to mix Your Suit or Overcoat LAM
: E : ; PS AND SUPPLIES d other JOB PRINTING
play and work in the right proportio T T T i Cleanest . and oO

| and above all the possessor of ta. sane ip op ailors 68 oe te oe t Tickets Bob J ohnson’s FARQUHAR BROS. LI D. roo

 
  

The latest styles ROYAL PRINT & LITHO Limited

TWO BOBBER SHOPS

Barrington Street

 

| ie tetatepacle aaa eg areas IN
| ; ‘ | SUITS—_OVER COATS NECKTIES cleaned 10c. FIRST CLASS =
Ab. Smith Leading DRESS SUITS AND UN CG AR’S The Home of the Shingle
TUXEDOS MAJESTIC THEATRE

Next Week - Seats Now

BEN-HUR

POPULAR COLLEGE ATHLETE CONTEST

In conjunction with the “THE COLLEGIANS” at the

MAJESTIC THEATRE
EVERY SECOND MONDAY

Popularity Contest

In the popularity contest to dis- ||
cover the most popular college athlete | }
in Halifax, Ab. Smith, Dalhousie football and basketball hero is well in the|}
lead with Gerald Godsoe second. The
i Majestic Theatre is conducting this
contest and a beautiful cup will be
given to the winner. Clip your coupon
from the Dalhousie Gazette and hand

BUILDING
AND
Cor. GEORGE & BARRINGTON
STREETS

Barrington St.,
Sack 428

LAUNDERING
CLEANING

Halifax, N. S.
Har. 127

DYEING
VALETERIA

 

$24.00

All one price

Every Garment made to
your individual measurement

Don’t Neglect Your Appearance

 

 

Satisfaction Guaranteed or

As Usual

    
 
  
 
     
      
    

 

ay itin atany performance. The following |
| _ ig the standing of the leading candid: || coed Tetaael -e B H To readers of ave |
ey ates. ‘ 422 Barrington St. e best in Ice Creams, Con- Be aR 2 i ie eee hd ee ae ee Rha Sal
fi. Albert Smith | Dako ++. pal : fectionmry ‘aud: Meal as well The Dalhousie Gazette |
ibe ift Et Brown, Tech an: omy as courtesy, efficent service and we recommend COLLEGE iy pect ed ee tne trees ert cece ea a |
MB i aT ugnie By BJA. Seas ss ° .
pe Socrae pecestenth, Dal. .::. nm attractive Sg are to GOOD FOR FIFTY VOTES (50)
7 a, Orton Hewatt, Dal........ 100 D AL-HOU -SIE! ner When Presented at the Door of the Theatre at any performance. |
é :
Dunlop, Kings............ 100 ALL Male Co!lege Students Eligible. )
Tupper, Dal... 5... 100 The Green Lantern CONTEST CLOSES DEC., 14th, 1927 |
Ralkburn McCunn, Dal.... |
Jack Atwood... oo ees Text Books, Note Books,
<ul Waterman’s Fountain Pens, THE REXALL
CLASS
Loose Leaf Books and Refills, DRUG STORE
il especially the Book Lovers JEWELLERY
. pe

     

   
   

Biology Pads, Stationery, etc. We enjoy the distinction of
making practically all Dalhousie
Class Jewellery.

We appreciate the trust placed
in us by the Dalhousie students
and in turn always assure them
of our very best service.

HENRY BIRKS & SONS
LIMITED
Diamond Merchants

a td | arcordially invited tomake |
| THE BOOK ROOM |
| 141 Granville Street

| “w their Headquarters

wu Cx
pa
me

For everything in

 

High Class Dining Room for Ladies and

Gentlemen
Best Service and Food in the City
Come in and try us—You’ll be Satisfied!

Drug Store Needs

   

499 Barrington Street
Phone Sack. 61

T. C. Allen & Co.

124-126 Granville Street

Be. - Come in and browse and
| make yourself at home.
ff EE. VICKERY, Manager. }

HALIFAX ORCHESTRA PLAYS 12 A.M.—2 P.M. 6-7 P.M. 10.30-——12 P.M.

 
