  

)

it
mr

mm |

   

Students’ Council
Favour $10 Fee

__

  
   
   
  
  
 
    
  
  
  
   
  
  

 
   

it Lh

 

CS ‘an vy i
Pea!
: sf ora, ak

   

_ MUCH BUSINESS HANDLED
_ AT COUNCIL MEETING
ah ew TUESDAY

Wy th a .

 

   
  
  
 
  
  
   
  

eine raise in the Student Fee from seven
to ten dollars, the Council of the Students at its meeting Tuesday night in the
Munro Room decided to obtain the
oe opinion of the student body before proa ay Ae ceeding further. The, Council's decisaro fon to hold a Dalhousie Theatre Night
_-———s was the second big decision of the
a _ evening. ; |
A great deal of business came before
-—~—s the:=someeting. The Council approved

  

t . oe , -e . 4 .
‘Feb. 13 for the Junior-Senior dance, gave
- its consent tothe proposed Commerce
a

“4 Bo basket-ball trip, heard reports on the
Vancouver trip, the skating arrange--_- ments, and the Dalhousie-Kings student
- relations situation. The Council also

ic oe ‘made grants to the basketball and hockey
WS teem.

__- The meeting opened with Mr. Godsoe
in the chair. The minutes were read
and approved. The meeting began

swith a discussion of skating nights.
es Mr. Rankin informed the meeting that

he had arranged for four skating nights| collegiate debating team who spoke

 

Res ru _at the Forum at the total cost of $450, at the trials last. Monday evening
of which last Friday might was one.
ay This expenditure was debated keenly

_ but it was finally decided that it should
be left to the Skating Committee, and
_ that they should,arrange for the other
three nights at the above rate. _

Leigh Miller on behalf of the Com
KINGS WINS

by he merce Society made an application .

_ which was granted, asking that a Com- FERGUSON, McCUNN AND
merce basketball team be allowed to GODSOE SHINE FOR
_ ss make a trip to Yarmouth. Four games . DAL

the team will play in all. They have

Wa tats ; i _ been given good guarantees. Mr. Miller

| | hoa : Playing their first game in the Cit
in making the application pointed out | aying their tirst game in y

Intercollegiate League and the second
on the evening's program the Dal senior
puck-chasers were defeated 3—2 by the
Kingsmen a week ago Thursday night.
The game was exciting at times but

bi a at that this trip would be a good adverfo >). tisement for Commerce.

f she Secretary-Treasurer reported that
an offer of $150 had been received for

Pha the open-air rink equipment and was| neither team produced any really good
instructed by the Council to accept. hockey. A decided inclination on the
Rite 4 Mr. Godsoe’s suggestion that a letter | part of the Blue and White sextette to
is of appreciation be written to Dr. Rankin} roughen things up served to interject
R.? for his services as football coach was|Some. excitement into the play but it

wasn't hockey and petty displays of
temper never did a team any good. On
the whole Kings had an edge on the
Tigers and deserved to win although
Dal held the lead on two occasions and
showed fair signs of being determined to
hold it.

The game opened fast and both teams
played with a vim. Neither squad
loafed and the initial session as well as
the whole game was bitterly fought.
There was no score in the opener.

Near the end of the Second stanza
Tom Foley let drive with a long shot
from the right wing and the puck glanced
off a King’s stick into the net. It was
first blood for the Gold and Black and
the Dal supporters (such as they were)
hailed the score. The Blue and White
tried hard to tally but Ferguson, in the
Dal net, took no chances and turned
everything aside.

The third and final period produced
the most scoring and the best hockey
of the game. About half way through
Jeff Andrews scored from close in and
evened up the count. Nothing daunted
the Tigers staged a rush which netted
them another. Their second goal came
from a mixup in front of the goal.
Unfortunately their lead was short lived
as Kings pressed and tied the score again
when Zwicker’s shot ripped behind
Ferguson. All these goals were scored

_ adopted.

Mr. Winfield submitted.a financial
report for the Vancouver trip. The
President complimented the team manager on his clear and comprehensive
report and on the way he had managed
the trip.

Mr. Godsoe stated that he had not
yet anything to report from the committee appointed to deal with the relations between the student bodies of
Kings and Dalhousie. He expected to
. make a definite report at the next meeting of the Council.

ee The Secretary read an application

from Arts ’29 to hold the Junior-Senior
Dance on February 13. This was
granted. A similar application from
the Medical Society asking for the
approval of the date set for its dance
was also granted.

The biggest question of the evening
was the Students’ Council Fee. Every
member of the Council favoured raising

the fee to $10. Strong reasons were
advanced for this change. It was
pointed out that the Council has not at
ay present sufficient funds at its disposal
and incidentally that the student fees
at other universities are higher than at
Dalhousie. Mr. Winfield expressed him
self as strongly in favour of a $10 fee,
and pointed out how much easier it

_ would be ro arrange trips and other in quick succession. Heartened by their
a activities. ‘‘I sincerely think that seven | Tecent success the Kingsmen attacked
- dollars is not sufficient,” said Mr.|furiously and a few minutes before the
Pi -  Godsoe. He felt that the matter should| game ended Cole rushed prettily to
et, be brought before the students. Mr. | score the winning goal.
a Merritt moved that the Council go on| Greatly weakened by the loss of
¥ record as in favour of the raise. Motion| several of their stars via the ‘‘conditioni _earried. ing’ route the Tigers fought against

odds and gave a creditable exhibition
for their College. Stepping in the shoes
of Jack Lewis, whose place Os LeFurgey
was to fill but cannot, “Scotty Ferguson”’ played a stellar game between
the uprights for the Gold and Black.
A little more experience and Ferguson
will be well equipped for the net custodian’s position. On the defence Ray
McCunn and Henry Godsoe played
hard throughout. The forward line

A verbal application from the Girls’
S. C. M. for permission to hold a Dalhousie Theatre Night on Feb. 16 opened
a discussion which resulted in a decision
of the Cotincil to hold a Theatre Night
a ats | itself in accordance with a motion passed
before Christmas. The proceeds are
to be used to entertain the football boys
at a banquet in appreciation of the
credit they did the college on the trip

 
   
 
   
 
 
  
  
  
   
     
 
  
    
  
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
  
   

ty + west. :

— y composed of Foley, Sangster and Taylor,

_-___ Partial grants of $100 to basketball} played a steady although not brilliant
Meek and $200 to hockey were made after game. Power, Doyle, and Sullivan,

short discussions. A committee con__ sisting of Messrs. Tupper, Smith and
~~ _ Rankin was appointed to look into the
question of turning in of athletic gear.
_ After a session of nearly three hours
the Council adjourned. The following
_ members were present: Miss Gladwin,
Messrs. Godsoe, Rankin, Curry, Garber,

were the subs.

The first game between St. Mary's
College and Tech wasa walkaway for the
Maroon and White team from Windsor
St. Displaying all the class that they
showed last year the Saints look good
to cop the league.

e's ‘Merritt, McCunn, Scott, Smith, Tupper —_————
bee and Winfield. , i a would like a copy of your Year
ook,

—P.0O. H.

 

 

  
 

B. R.Guss, a member of last year's Inter
OPENING GAME

  
 

— Official Student Publication at Dalhousie University—

HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA, JANUARY 27th, 1928

—————————e

‘AMS TO MEET McGILL and

©
(ee ee ee
9

SS Ee

 

Debat Liberals Have
sate | Strong Cabinet

‘MINISTERS OF MOCK PAR
LIAMENT ANNOUNCED

The walls of the Law School have

once again re-echoed to the cheers of
the Liberals, Conservatives and Nationalists. Last week after very heavy
ballotting the Liberals were-voted into
power. Party feeling is very strong;
both the Conservatives and Liberals
have issued manifestos outlining very
comprehensive platforms. The planks
in these platforms naturally deal with
problems that are vital to student life:
old age pensions, free beer, hard liquor
and wine, prohibition, of summer fishing
in Newfoundland, petting problems and
the like.
_. The personnel of the Liberal Administration is viewed by shrewd political
observers as one of the strongest Cabinets Canada has ever had, exhibiting
both debating strength and administrative ability.

The Cabinet is as follows:

Prime Minister and Secretary of
State—Rt. Hon. Andrew Olding Hebb.

Minister of Labour: Hon. A. H.
MacKinnon.

Minister of Justice and AttorneyGeneral: Hon. J. E. Mitchell.

Minister of Finance: Hon. J. T.
MacQuarrie. ‘
Minister of National Defence: Hon.

J. F. Shaw.

Minister of Trade and Commerce:
Hon. W. D. Outhit.

Minister of Marine
Hon. C. W. Sperry.

Minister of Railways and Canals:
Hon. Wm. N. Wickwire. .

Minister of the Interior: Hon. J.
Gerald Godsoe.

Postmaster-General: Hon. J. Henry
MacDonald.

Solicitor-General: Hon. T. C. Doyle.

Minister of Agriculture: Hon. F, M.
Covert.

Minister of Health: Hon. Alex MacDonald.

and Fisheries:

Minister of National Revenue: Hon. |.

J.S. Dresner.

It is rumoured that the Government
at an early date will introduce bills
creating two new departments: Aviation
and Foreign Affairs, the names of J. J.
Fay and Ben R. Guss are associated
with these two new portfolios.

Hon. H. E. Read has again accepted
the position of Speaker. His Excellency Colonel Thompson will deliver the

Dalhousie Authors

By A. M. M.

Perhaps it is not generally known that
there is in the Library, a ‘‘Dalhousie
Bookshelf,’’ which is devoted to the
publications, on all subjects, of Dalhousie graduates. The expression is
figurative rather than literal, for no
single shelf in the stack could contain
the collected works of our own authors.
Gordon MacGregor’s ‘‘Memoirs’”’ number fifty. De Mille had some thirty
titles to his credit, before he died at the
age of forty-six. This book-shelf is one
of our most valuable assets, for, after
all, in the last analysis, a college exists
as an institution of learning, for the
diffusion and, as Bacon would say, the
augmentation of learning.

Amongst the latest accessions to
this shelf is a work de longue haleine by
Rudolf A. Clemen,”’ ‘‘By-Products in
the Packing dndustry’’ (University of
Chicago Press). Mr. Clemen is well
remembered about Dalhousie. After
graduation and some experience of the
academic life, he devote himself to a
study of the great American industry,
‘“‘nacking’’ which has its centr in
Chicago. He “treated its origin and
development, from the establishment
of the great cattle-ranges of the south
and west to the building of the enormous slaughter-houses in Chicago, with
all the accompaniments set forth so
drastically in ‘‘The Jungle’.

This second book of Mr. Clemen’s
follows necessarily from the first. Apart
from the meat of the animals the hides,
bones, viscera, etc., etc., are turned into
useful products. The joke about utilizing everything about the pig, except
the squeal is hardly a joke. A glance
at the very informative plates showing
the steer, the sheep the pig in states of
progressive disintegration with what
they are turned into stacked alongside
are stories without words and make the
letter-press almost superfluous.

The illustrations are many and useful.
Results are tabulated and represented
by graphs. And there is a full index
In a word, it represents long and exhaustive research and forms a mine of
surprising information on a most important subject. Ten thou sand
copies have been distributed by the

a

    

SS x =r ———S

NEWMAN CLUB

The Newman Club held their second

on Sunday the 22nd.

Rev. Father Burns, the new chaplain,
was introduced to the members.
an ex-member of the Newman Club and
was appointed to succeed Rey. Fr.

MacCarthy who has been transferred to

Bermuda.

The speaker of the day L’abbe Casgrain gave a most entertaining talk on
“Communism and Immigration in Canada". Father Casgrain who is an interesting talker and a talented linguist
was at one time interpreter to the League
of Nations. He has for many years,
studied conditions both in Europe and
Western Canada and could therefore
illustrate from his own experiences how
the immigrants had lived in Europe and
their chances of improving their state in
the New World.

Following this address a hearty vote
of thanks was moved by Fred Jennings
and seconded by Muriel Donahoe. It
passed unanimously.

A business meeting was then
held. Plans for a dance were left in
the hands of the Executive. The new
pins were distributed.

The next meeting will be on the
third Sunday of next month.

speech from the throne. Ben R. Guss
member from Saint John will move the
resolution that an address be drawn up
in reply to the speech from the Throne.
J. J. Fay, member for Bridgetown, will
second the resolution: A general debate will then follow giving all members
an opportunity to express themselves
on the general policy of the Government.
It may be said that all three parties
have drawn to their ranks men of great
ability.. It is interesting to note that
the Liberal Cabinet has in its personnel
a lady member—Hon. J. S. Dresner.
The Conservatives have men like
Alban Farmer, Rod MacLeod and M. B.
MacKinnon; the Nationalists pride
themselves in their men: J. J. Lysons
Atwood, A. J. Walsh and B. M. Kelloway.
Many fiery speeches are anticipated
and every move of the government will
be watched by the keen-minded men of
the Opposition and Nationalist parties.
However The Rt. Hon. A. O. Hebb is
prepared to meet all onslaughts.
FLASH—Session opened Wednesday
evening, Jan. 25, 1928 at 8 o'clock. Full
details will be published in next edition
of this paper. ;

 

  

Armour firm amongst their employees.
Mr. Clemen has presented a copy to the
Library.

But Dalhousians are idealistic as well

as practical. The Little College is
producing poets. ‘‘John Hanlon” has
been contributing to New York magazines for years and his two ‘“‘chapbooks” published recently by the
Runsan Press have been eagerly bought
up by the discerning public. We can
also claim Guy Mason. Though he did
not complete his course at Dalhousie
because he was engaged in even more
important work, ‘‘Somewhere in France”’
for several years. He too has a chapbook of verse in the same series, with the
arresting title ‘““The Cry of Insurgent

Youth.” The poems are “few, but
roses’’.
Let not the old and conservative

shrink from the challenge of the title
poem. It is a passionate cry for the

destruction of all that hinders the growth

of man’s soul. Appropriately it is

written in free verse. It begins,

Fling far the flame!

We come with burning uns'ept eyes that

will not sleep,

Until the blinding light of a jull.day

Closes them perforce, and they go down to
rest,

Filled with the vision glorious

That must come in the fruiting time of our
destre.

Fling far the flame!
A hatf forgotten deity will fan tt with his
breath,

Until it blazes to the zenith of all desire,

And merges into the unquenchable light
that burns on the hearth of
the universe.

Then, O oe of infinite mercy, infinite
lave,

Breaker of idols and master of dreams,

Give us Thy rest.

Such verse has the true afflatus. It
has the unmistakable ring of sincerity
in every line. It is instinct with noble
passion for the high and heroic. If

_—_—

———SS

 
  
  
   
   

meeting of the year at the K. of C. Hall

He is

rg

il
O
Pte.

 
 
     
  
  

111i LUNIANAE
|

 

oS _

On Monday evening, Jan. 23rd an

perorations before Dean Read, Dr. G. E.

THE OLDEST

COLLEGE PAPER
IN AMERICA

 

NO. 12

 

 

eager group of speakers delivered their
Wilson and Prof. S. L. MacDonald in an

attempt to secure places on one of the two strong teams that will be chosen within

the next week.

The Athenaeum Society of Acadia submitted the following resolution for the
Intercollegiate Debate with that college:

(“Resolved that the Bolshevist administration of economic affairs since
1917 has been to the economic advantage of the Russian people’.

*,
“

 

Debater

 

Rod H. McLeod, president of Sodales,
who was an aspirant for honors at
the trial debates last Monday

evening

‘28 Banquets
Honored Member

HUGH MACLENNAN COMPLIMENTED BY
CLASSMATES

On Monday evening Class '28 held a
banquet at the Green Lantern, in honor

of their President Hugh MacLennan
who, last week was chosen
All Canadian Rhodes Scholar. There

were about fifty members of the class
present and the banquet was declared
to be the most largely attended and
most successful class function of the

year. Elizabeth Frame, the vice-president of the class presided. After the
toast to the King. Prof. Howard

Murray proposed the toast to the
guest of the evening. He spoke of
Mr. MacLennan’s success and of the
great honor it brought ‘not only to
himself but to the whole college. In
responding Mr. MacLennan thanked
Prof. Murray for his good wishes and
the class for the honor paid to him and
explained that he owed a debt of gratitude to all his teachers, but especially
to Prof. Murray and Mr. Logan, which
he could never hope to repay adequately.
Mr..J. W. Logan proposed the toast to
Dalhousie which was responded to by
Dean Reid. Both Mr. Logan and Dean
Reid thanked the Class for inviting
them to be present and Dean Reid
explained how and why the All Canadian
Rhodes Scholarship came to be awarded.
Following this there was a short speech
by the honorary president of the class,
without whom, as the vice-president said
no function of Class '28 would be complete. After singing God Save the
King the banquet was brought to a
close in a true Dalhousian spirit by a
Dalhousie yell.

taht i etnies

ARTS AND SCIENCE
HOLD PARTY

SUCCESSFUL FUNCTION
STAGED BY ’29 and ’30

Classes ’'29 and '30 combined to put
on a most successful party at the Green
Lantern on Monday last.

Joe Mills’ Orchestra was in attendance and they displayed the wares to
good purpose.

The party was virtually an Arts and
Science party as the Senior Class and
the Freshmen as well as '29 and '30 were
both well represented.

The organization of the party was in
the hands of the Social Committees of
both classes and they acquitted them
only ten thousand young men in Can-| selves nobly.

ada were marching to the music of that
song.

The chaperones of the evening were
Prof. and Mrs. Stanley Walker and
Prof. Bell,

Show Postponed **

Dalhousie has chosen to argue the
negative of this resolution. The debate
with Acadia will take place early in
March. It is to be held in Halifax and
the Committee is endeavoring to put
up a good team to defend Alma Mater
in this forensic. feud with one of Dal’s
greatest rivals for debating honors.

The subject for debate with McGill
was submitted by Dal and read as
follows: ‘‘Resolved that the proposals
submitted by the Minister of Justice to
the recent inter-provincial conference
for the amendment of the British North
America Act so as to give to Canada the
power to amend her own constitution
should be adopted.”

McGill has chosen to uphold the
negative; that is, that Canada should
not have the right to amend her own
Constitution according to the proposals
of Mr. Justice Lapointe.

The McGill subject is a matter of
great interest to students of political
tendencies and will no doubt receive
widespread attention, as reflecting studied opinions on both views. The date
for the debate with McGill has not yet
been settled.

It is to be regretted that a greater
number did not try for the teams but
this can be explained by the fact that
the subjects were of interest only to a
certain group of students, i. e., those
interested in politics.

Among those who spoke were:

Don Grant, who spoke clearly and

displayed no sign of nervousness in this
his first appearance before the committee.

Roy Laurence, who has improved
considerably over last year, both in his
diction and delivery.

Andrew Hebb, who, although suffering from a cold displayed a broad knowledge of his subject and made many
pointed remarks.

Rod MacLeod, veteran debater who
spoke in his usual decisive manner.

M. B. MacKinnon, who speaks with
great ease and likes to tell stories.

P. L. H. Muschamp, who spoke
voluminously on the Russian economic
situation.

Ben R. Guss, member of last year's
inter-collegiate team—l also spoke.

Keen interest is being displayed on
all sides and a large audience was present
to hear the speakers.

Before the meeting closed Mr. MacLeod submitted the application of J.
Gerald Godsoe to be considered a a
candidate, on his past record as a debater. In his closing remarks Mr. MacLeod expressed the hope that Sodales
would continue as an important college
activity.

oo

Coming events cast their shadow
before. While Fat McKenzie was ill
(imagine) for a few days last week, he
receiver a parcel of eatables, the contained of which was marked ‘Silver
Casket Handles.”

ES

Don’t forget the Glee Club show
tonight is postponed.

a

GLEE CLUB NOTES

Rehearsals for the Glee Club Orchestra are coming along splendidly, but we
need MORE VIOLINS. If the orchestra is to perform at Glee Club or over
the radio we must have more violins.

Now then violinists here's a chance to
win your Glee Club “D’’, don’t wait for
a personal invitation but come out to
the Munro Room, Saturday at 2:30.

 

Arrangements are completed for the
Delta Gamma show and preparation
will start immediately; this is going to
be goodl Watch for it.

Election of officers to fill the posts of
secretary and technician will be held
this evening. In order to save time the
audience will be provided with ballots
bearing the names of the candidates.

All students who would like to participate in Glee Club activities in any
way are earnestly requested to get in
touch with wither Graham Allen or
Keltie Holman. Please don’t feel that
you must be asked, VOLUNTEER!

PAGE —
3

 

 

~
i

   

4

ACADIA SPEAK —
SMALL NUMBER OF
CONTESTANTS APPEAR

 
   
  
    
  
  
  
   
  
  

ire c
| | ?
pe By yv 4 he 6. al - ‘4
Lad pousie @asette ts
= (Founded 1869) |
ak PY Mit Spedeih
FRED C. JENNINGS |
Exchange Editor Sport Editor
KATHERINE HANIFEN

J. W. WHALEN

W. GORDON DUSTAN
MARGARET ELLS
Reporters

,r.0; WEBB; «4

R. A. DONAHUE

C.R. K. ALLEN

Circulation Manager

Ss. W. ARCHIBALD
Business ‘Mader

RALPH S. MORTON
f& 52 Quinpool Rd.
ee Phone Sac.¥304

Subscription Rate $1.00 per year

Why?

_ The pass list for the Christmas set of examinations is now a
‘matter of history, gloomy for some, satisfactory for others, but it is
still being discussed. Many students are asking the question,

_ “Why are our marks not published with the list?’ There are two

 

 

.

__ sides to every question and this matter is no exception to the rule.
If we study the question we can see two probable reasons for
withholding the information that every student wishes to acquire.
First, it might be repugnant to those students, who failed to pass,
to have their failure, open to the gaze of the public. Second, it
might encourage laxitv among those who had made excellent marks
and give them a false sense of security. |
‘i To the first we would say, that there is no need of divulging the
| _ shortcomings of a student unless, he or she so wished it. The num| __ ber system which supposedly covers up the identity of the student in
| the examination room, could perform the same function on the
| = notice board. |
_——,s The second argument in favor of concealment can also be eliminated. A student with the necessary ability and application to
_ place himself inan advantageous position in the mid-year examinations is not going to allow the knowledge of comparative safety
to deter him from further application. Rather will it spur him on
to greater endeavour.
| On the other hand, if you consider the majority of students,—
those who, scrape through with a thin margin,—it would be better
for them to have an exact idea of their standing. With the pass list
as it is, one mark above the pass mark puts a student in the ranks
of the elect. He is ignorant of his exact standing, whether he has
five, twenty-five or nothing to spare. He's in the position of false
security. 1 |
Between the student with a pass and the student with one below
a pass theré is practically no distinction but according to the pass
lists as published there is a great expanse. The former has passed,
the latter has failed. The latter is probably the better off of the
| two for he knows that he must exert more energy, the former prob_ ably thinks he is doing well enough, feels he has‘a margin to work on
and does not realize his mistake until it is too late.
There may be more solid reason for witholding — the desired
information but from the student's standpoint it would seem that an
) exact knowledge of his standing would be more compatible with’ his
} future well-being.

i

ci i

eal
t :

hh iy
=

—

.
~

System

In the march of progress throughout the ages the all-important
factor has been found to be system. From the dawn of history
to the present day the evolution of society has been the result of
the utilisation of a systematised procedure in modes and manners.

' Consider the savage, who gorging when he had plenty, starved when
a time of famine came on. He lived in the present, a child of nature,
never preparing for future necessity, but drinking froin the bowl of
life without making preparation for its replenishing. ‘‘Carpe diem,”’
—‘‘Eat, drink and be merry for tomorrow we die,’’ was his motto,
and, in many cases, he “‘lived up to it’.

His life was an exemplification of instability. He moved from
place to place with abandon, following his food. In summer he
fed on the fruits of the soil; in winter he eked out a pecarious existance on wild meat and frozen fish—his dress a hodge podge of crude
gifts of nature, his living conditions unsanitary and uncomfortable.
He existed—he lived but he didn’t live fully. The only system he
knew was the system of mixed superstition and custom that had
been handed down from father to son through many generations—
a system that bound and fettered his actions, his thoughts and even
his speech.

On the other hand if we consider a normal individual in this
era which we flatter ourselves by calling civilized we shall find many
boons that system and systematised action has carried along in its
wake.

’ When man first learned to store food in time of plenty as a
; - safeguard against the time of want, he was taking a progressive
| step along the road of system. When he acquired the art of bringing food to him by herding animals and cultivating land—the
‘pastoral and agricultural stage—he had travelled still farther along
the road to system and advancement. . And if we continue to follow
the progress of civilization to the point at which we are at present
we would see the powerful factor that system has been in governing
the mode of our present existence.
In the old days—and by old is not meant those halcyon days
that old timers enthuse about, when seemingly superhuman deeds
were done, a mere matter of fifty or one hundred years, but back on
the rim of time—when a man wanted an egg for his breakfast, or
whatever they called the meal in those days he had to go through
an elaborate procedure to satisfy his craving. He hunted the
forest until he found a nest, climbed the tree and picked his meal
_ which he probably consumed on his perch, it the bird fruit were not
addled. If they were unfit for consumption he would by a method of
trial and failure finally satisfy himself, but by this time it would
have become time for his supper or whatever he designated that
- meal and so he followed the vicious circle, eating to live, living to
that he might live.
ee Nowadays if we wish an egg for breakfast, it is only a matter
of a few minutes before the desired article is set before us. We eat
it in comfort or, if it is addled, we have the satisfaction of ringing
for service, repeating our order and relieving our pent up feelings
at the outrage. The savage could only shin down the tree and seek
; farther afield.

(rare

/ ai és eat

   
  
  
  
      

 
 
   

ta

This advancement of civilization, of which the above is but an
ae humble example, is due primarily to the inculcation of system into

oJ
aS
2%

Ph
i#
it
7

x

  

‘to the world at large.

| ____ DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

  

Jovee Kilmer

THE NEW SCHOOL

. That one of the names on the ‘radiant
list’ should be Sergeant Joyce Kilmer
is not only a matter for sorrow to the
lovers of try, among those that
were left behind, but also for deep regret
When _ Joyce
Kilmer was killed while fighting for his
country and his faith on the battlefields of France, the world was robbed
of a poet, it is true, but it was also
robbed of a man. That Kilmer was a
poet had been recognized for some
years before his death, but the fact
that he was a man has yet to be discovered by others than his devotees. It is
quite possible to read Kilmer’s poems,
essays and various articles without
becoming acquainted with the character of their author to any great
extent. One may learn from his works
that, for instance, he was a lover of
nature, an ardent Roman Catholic and
a devoted father, but, after all, these
are not distinctive characteristics. Many
people could be said to be just those
things without possessing any similarity
whatever to Joyce Kilmer. No doubt
a closer study than merely one reading,
would give better results, but even
at that it is doubtful whether as true
a picture of him could be drawn as
that which one finds on reading his
letters. If they are sincere, and,
personally, I have no doubts whatever,
on the subject, they are the index to a
fine character, a rare character, a
character of which it might be said:

“His life was gentle and the elements

So mixed in him that nature might

standup _
And say to all the world, ‘This was
@) man’.

Joyce Kilmer was born in 1887. His
father was Kilburn Kilmer, and both
his father and mother had Irish blood
in their veins, much to the delight of
their son, who often speaks proudly
of the fact. The Kilmers were Anglican and the boy was, of course, brought
up in that faith. He was educated at
Columbia University and proved to be
a keen student. He was. married
immediately after his graduation in
1908 and taught school for a year in
Morristown. From there he went to
New York and worked on the Standard
Dictionary for three years—after which
he accepted a position on the staff of
The Churchman. In 1913 Kilmer and
his wife joined the Catholic Church,
and from that time he was a very devout
Catholic. He was lateér literary critic
for The Bookman, New York Times,
Literary Digest and several other wellknown literary magazines. Just before
the United States entered the war
the Kilmers lost their little daughter
Rose, and, immediately after her death
Kilmer enlisted as a private in the 69th
New York regiment. He was sent to
France almost immediately and, served
as a Sergeant in the Intelligence Section
of the 165th Infantry until he was
killéd in July 1918.

During the period of his life overseas
his letters to his wife are particularly
interesting and revealing. [t was impossible for him to write poetry when
he was first in the army, but before
his death he wrote several poems
besides essays and articles. The best
known of these poems is, I think,
Rouge Banquet, which he sent home to
his wife, shortly after he had been
under fire in the village of that name.

Up to a comparatively short time
ago—in fact twenty-four hours, I had
read nothing of Kilmer’s except a little
poem called Trees, so when I started
to read a volume of his essays, letters

It’s A Long

ee eee a

It is high time that Dalhousie instituted a faculty of International Diplomacy. We train Lawyers, Doctors,

Engineers and Financiers, why not
Diplomats? ; :
Moreover, certain courses in this

faculty would be of inestimable value
to students taking other courses, for it
may very often be beneficial to professional men to have a knowledge of
foreign social customs.

In order to do my little bit towards
starting this faculty | have drawn up
one of the courses—that of Home and
foreign Drinking, for, in many lands a
knowledge of drinking is a knowledge
of social etiquette, and anyone who
thinks otherwise is nothing but a great
big hoobus goobus.

I. HOME AND FOREIGN DRINKING

 

A. Foreign
English
1. Monday, Wednesday, Friday, 9-10
a.m. General Classes of British drinks

of today (including Scotch and Irish).
General effects and amount to be taken.

Text books: Advertisements of current
English magazines. (To be assigned by
instructor).

2. Monday, Wednesday, Friday, 10-11
a.m.

Laboratory, same days, 3-5 p.m.

Pre-requisite—English,

A study of the whiskeys of the

United Kingdom.
Their uses and effects with particular
a(tention to the time and place to serve.
Laboratory classes will be held for practical work, compulsory attendance not
necessary.

Text Books: Catalogue from Johnny
Walker, Black and White, Gold Label
and Wiute Horse.

Joe College: Whiskeys 7 have met.

7. Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday,
9:10 a.m. Pre-requisite: English I.

A careful study of English Ales and
Beer with practical work done in class
including testing, froth-blowing and
male quartets.

No text books.

 

 

and miscellaneous pieces, I did not
know just what was attacking.

Now, I am an ardent admirer of Kilmer.
I may say that at first I was disappointed. His essays left me cold. While
they were interesting, bright and humorous in an obvious way; they seemed to
express rather set ideas. The sweeping
statements which he makes in_ his
enthusiasm, cannot always be credited.
It was when I began to read the letters
that I realized the nobility of Kilmer’s
nature. He is modest and retiring
with regard to his own writing and he is
quite unassuming. Unlike many writers
whose names instantly spring to the
mind at mention of it, he signs both his
christian and surname to his letters,
or if it is written to an intimate friend
he uses his christian name only. Affect
jonate, and very fond of his wife and

children, the more one reads of him the
better one likes him.

Kilmer's poetry is musical—perhaps
that is the first thing that impresses
itself on the reader. He is fond of
short poems, and indeed, it is chiefly
for short poems that he is known,
although the easy, fluent style of his
essavs attracts many. His poetry ts
simple, direct and concentrated as all
good poetry should be (page Prof. Coe
Bennet). There is little doubt that the
man who would have become one of
America’s great poets was cut off in the
flower of his youth and vigour.

— Mee.

2 en ene ee ee
————oOoOoOoOoOOOeeeeeeee"eoeeoeeeeleleleleleeeSSsNasSsSaea——ww—w  sa>w«<—»——0

daily life.
to the systematic functioning of
we have only the faintest notion.

The comfort with which we take our breakfast is due

innumerable activities of which,

Business or systematized dealings, railways or systematised
transport, division of labor or systematised manufacture have all

entered into the assurance of our comfort.

and without it we are nothing.

System is everything

x

Having eagerly scanned the pass lists of the Christmas examinations—another example of system—and many of us having
found our names wanting from beneath some of the subjects, we
may consider our lot from the point of view of the savage.

Did we wander along through

the first era of this year with our

head in the air, unsystematically seeking our knowledge as the

savage sought his meal?

If we did, then we are now perched with

him in a precarious position with one or more “addled eggs’’ in our
possession, but nothing more to sustain us-in this, the second era of

the year.

If we shin down and continue our search in the old unsystematic way our path will probably be strewn with ‘‘addled eggs” and

we ourselves shall drop exhausted
ents” break loosé in the spring.

by the wayside when the “‘elem
Let us call to our aid system and the aids of system and triumph
over the elements when they burst forth in all their power—and
majesty. Systematised study is the only method which will assure
success. Studying one hour a night for seven nights in the week
and frittering away the rest of the evening—we all do it (the frittering) means only seven hours a week study. Studying from 7.30

to 11.30 for three nights a week
week with four nights free.

means a total of twelve hours a

It is worth trying.

Che Dalhousie Skating Night

The Council of Students is to be congratulated on its stand with

regard to skating this year. The

open-air rink, which for the past

two years was not much more than a bill of expense, has been very
wisely discarded and the rental of the Forum has been substituted.

The large crowd that enjoyed the
night when the rink was reserved
of the popularity of the new idea.

Playing the interfaculty hockey matches before
thrown open to general skating relieves the difficulty of interfaculty |]
The council plans to obtain the rink a number ||

sport in that line.

skating at the Forum last Friday
for Dalhousians is proof positive

of times during the winter for ‘Dalhousie Nights’ and much further

pleasure is anticipated. Although we have not now the benefit of|}

a rink we have the assurance that any plans made for a certain

 

night will not be destroyed by an unkind weatherman.

the ice is|]

  

Say

Time Between Drinks
By W. G. Allien Ai

13. Tuesday and Thursday, 10-11
a.m.

A particular study of manners and
modes of English drinking. Students
will be taught when, where, and what
to serve or drink, also how to liven
parties, dispose of unconscious guests
and other useful information.

Note.—This class can only be offered
to students who have shown particular
aptitude in their previous work. Mock
house parties will be held every Thursday
afternoon and evening. 2

FRENCH .
1. Mondays and Fridays, 11-12 a.m
Pre-requisite—-Two classes in French’
language. A general survey of the more}

important French drinks and_ their

uses.
Text Books: Francois Bothe: Les
Vins de la Provence, Jules Ivrogne:

La Culture des Vignes.

2. Tuesdays, Thursdays
urdays, 9.10, a. m.

Pre-requisite—French I.

This course aims to furnish students
with a thorough knowledge of the correct
wines to be served with the various
courses of a dinner. Practical work
will be carried out once a week.

This class cannot be offered as an
elective in any other course.

Text Books: Gauche: £’Etiquetie du
botre et du manger.

4. Tuesdays and Thursdays, 2:30—
4:30 p. m.

A short course, given half-yearly
giving instruction in cafe deportment,
how to order wines etc. This will be a
seminar course.

Text Books: Wine lists, menus etc.,
may be procured at the University
office.

SPANISH AND PORTUGESE
1. Monday, Wednesday and Friday,
11-12 a. m.
Pre-requisite—French I.
An extensive course covering the use
of Spanish and Portugese wines. No
text books are required.

CANADIAN AND AMERICAN

1. Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays, 9-10 a. m.

Laboratory, same days, 3-5 p.m.

Pre-requisite—English I, French I.
Chrmistry 9 and 10. Morbid Anatomy
(Med) and Crimes (Law).

General appreciation of Canadian and
American drink§ and drinking, with
particular regard to precautionary measures.

Text Books: Jerry Thomas: Bartender’s Guide, Judge Jr.: Here’s How!

N. B.—Students must take at least
seven hoursa week of gymnasium work

2. Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays, 10-11 a- m.

A half-year class of resuscitation and
first aid. Lectures will be given by
fourth and fifth year Medical students.

3. Tuesdays and Thursdays, 2:30—
3:30.

Pre-requisite—Two classes in Chemistry. also Torts (Law).

An educational course dealing with
brewing and distilling. This may only
be offered to a few students of high
standing. The course consists entirely
of supervised practical work.

Research work may be carried on in
various branches subject to the approval
of the instructor.

This, then, is the proposed course and
we feel sure that it will meet with
whole-hearted, instantaneous and unanimous approval from the student
body.

and Sai
 

Laughter

I sing to those who laugh at dawn
Upon a high, high hill

And though they failed before the nigh}
Bedad—they're laughing still!

They laugh through rain, they laugh
through snow
And in the blackest night.
Methinks a laugh as gay as that
Would make the darkest light!

I have met those who laugh at want,
Who laugh at cold and fear.

I have met those who wept instead;
I thought it cost them dear!

For always, as I journeyed
The world bowed down before
The laughter of the laughers
And opened wide the door!

—Muriel Love.

   
  
   

MUSIC

Our aim is to give a Musical Service so
complete that when you think of music
you naturally think of Phinneys.
Sheet Music Department we specialize in
music for teachers and students.
orders will, at all times, receive our careful attention.

—————

os

‘DAL

 

'

 

WLITTL

——————

Dr. W. M. Hattie, assistant dean of
the faculty of Medicine, has been confined to his home for some time due to
illness. His many friends extend sincere wishes for his recovery and an
early return to his duties.

Ross Byrne, who graduated in Law
in 1926 is practising in Liverpool.

The Med Dance is really a part of

your college education. Don’t miss
Jit. Dal Gym, Monday Night.

NIGHT AT THE FORUM

A record crowd of Dalhousie students
enjoyed the skating at the Forum last

Friday night when the first Dalhousie

skating event was held. The ice was in
good condition but the band could be
improved. The Students’ Council expects to engage the Forum a number of
times during the season so the students
may have the benefit of skating despite
the lack of facilities at the university.
*

Last week was a heavy one on mail
for the Medicals. Invitations were out
for special sessions wit: the assistant

dean.

* +e *

NOW YOU WRITE ON
(An Answer)

Kiss you?
I'dtry
If you
Sit by
And do
Not try
Manoeu
vres sly

F

In a canoe
A single slip
Gives me and you
A wat’rv dip.
Were only you
Beneath the sky
With no canoe
But high and dry,
I'm telling you
You bet | try!

x * *

For Graduatesonly? NO! The Year
Book has appeal for every student,
professor and alumnus.

a

x &
Dear Sir:

Will the one person who made the
great decision that ‘‘What Price Gore’’
was bunk as was also ‘‘Critique’s
Critic’’ in future take a vote of the student body before signing himself: ‘‘The
Majority of the Students.’’

Two of the “Minority.”
—
The Freshmen Class turned out en
masse for their class party at.the Green
Lantern, on Wednesday the 18th.

The affair was thoroughly enjoyed.
Joe Mills and his orchestra were as good
as usual and several novelty dances
created much hilarity.

_ The chaperones were Mr. and Mrs.
Stirling, Miss Lowe and Prof. Hunt.

Rest

[ want to go

Where skies are low
And sounds are still

And lights are dim

A land of dusks

Where men are not
And life’s forgot

I'm weary of this world.

 

Where drooping skies
Are breeised blue
With sunken stars

And hazy moon

And hazy moon

Where sulky winds
With sullen sought
Below sodden sleep

To eyes that weep

I'm weary of this world

Where days are slow
And slowly flows

The sleeping pulse

A land of rest

And rest and rest

I’m weary of this world.

In our

Your

giAckiRe aia

 

wow

 
Pig”
en) ae a

 

sassinates the truth,
is—he loves it like he loves

_ An ulcerated tooth!
ye ae d

reason why we hustle forth

morning to our toil

it we know no other way

‘o make the kettle boil;

e may pretend to love ~ jobs,
ow

: But, in our hearts, we
| We daily face the deadly grind
Because we need the dough!

Meat,
ie We boast about our love of work,
And swear itis ‘‘our dish,”
While in our hearts we long to shirkJust loaf around or fish.
nS We cover up our hate of toil.
__.-‘With virtuous deceit,

For well we know we only work

‘Because we need to eat!

5
4
yi

ee.
Be...) if we could find the magic way
_-—__‘' That leads to Easy Street,

as #: We'd gladly kiss the job goodbye,
Baa i, < _ Sit down and rest our feet. __
____ But since we can’t, we force a grin,
__._ And now and then we pull
_-_~__:«-*‘That tune about our love of work—
Ke ae In short, we shoot the bull!

Pay Se

oS Her Heart

Her heart is a comfort haven:

 

 

es My storm-tossed hopes afloat,
_ Escape the glowering raven—
a From wearying thoughts remote.

Her heart has a lotus-pervasion,
Emanating contentment and charm:
A fit word for every occasion,
Dissolving the bonds of alarm.

Sacred her heart like a shrine;
__ And every heart beat falling,
Cries: Worship the divine—_
Like hymnal chimes a-calling.

—B. R. G.

Woods
Beauty BShoppe

The largest and best equipped Beauty Parlors east of
Montreal—and only then outdone in size! All our operators
are graduates —- experts — in
every Po of Beauty Culture,
and all equipment is modern
to the smallest detail.

Your patronage is solicited,
and we warrant complete satisfaction from a manicure to
a -permanent wavee

  

Phone S. 3830 for appointment

The WOOD BROS Co.,
Limited

COLLEGE COLORS

We have a good supply of our

distinctive DAL Stationery.

j Neat size crest, die stamped in

| yellow and black on high. class

1 parchment paper, club size, with

envelopes stamped to match, suitable for ladies or gentlemen.

Sold in bulk only, buy any quantity you require.

Faulkner’s Book Store
16 Spring Garden Road

       
           
     
         
       
           
       
       
     
  
  
   
 
 
  
    
      
   
 
    
 

 

FOOTWEAR
Swanky Oxfords
Styled. for Young Men,
correct in style—and easy

on Finances. <A shoe you'll
be proud to wear.

 

 

 

New Shoes for the
College Girl

oe Shoes for street and all
oe sport wear — and also
ee), slippers appropriate for

the coming evening events.

 

| Wallace Bros

427

, y
j

a Say it with Flowers, Say it with ours
S| oe THE HOME OF

Hl Cut Flowers & Potted Plants
 - | We make up Funeral Designs,
Hl also Wedding Bouquets. We also
Il do Table Decorating. We are the
fi only members of the hah
Il Florists. We can wire Flowers
to all parts of the world.

The Rosery

* § BLOWERS ST.
||. Phone Sac. 3321-3322
1 _ Night Phone Sac. 1934

ot yi
aie lf
r)

a
i Sie

   
    
 
  
    
  
 
 
  
     
   
     
  
  
    
   
  
  
 
 
    
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
    
       
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
     
   
 

| now like we had in the old days.

‘stay the limit.

 

y}to take down.
|| fellow, a bantam, with no punch at all

 

   

Though it was way back in 1939 the
boys at the club talk about it as if the
papers were still giving it the front page.

pecially on a summer evening when our
young hopefuls find it kind of hot for a
workout and we gather out on the veranda and drink far beer and chew cigars.
After they've gassed it back and forth
for a while they always turn to me, just
like I was a new arrival, and say, ‘‘What
do you think about it, Mike?”’. Then

| they lean back in their chairs and make
|themselves comfortable,

cause they
know they're going to get astory. You
see, | was in Jack’s corner that night
and I know a lot more than the sport
writers ever did. I guess I've told that
story more’n a hundred times, but they

love to hear it, especially the young

fellows; cause there ain't any fighters
Leastwise, none like Jack Karney.

It was when Jack was in his prime,
when he'd raised the game of the squared
ring to a height it’s never seen, before
or since. He was so fast you couldn’t
follow his punches, but you'd get the
after effects all right. He hit harder

| than any man I've ever seen in the ring.

And so much speed he could put those
blows just where he wanted them, at the
right time. Oh, he was a marvel, all
right. I remember—well, never mind,
that’s not the story, but he’d had the
heavyweight title for over a year and
there wasn't anybody who'd stood up
against him for three rounds. Most
of them didn't last the first one.

‘*Mike,”’ he used to say to me, ‘“‘five,
fifty grand purses are just as good as
one for two fifty,”’ and he fought six
times in that first year. Fighters were
pretty scarce by that time, except second
raters, just looking for the publicit
of a match wizh the champ, and Jack
was fuming around, like a born scrapper,
swearing at the bum lot of heavyweights
there were.

Bud Weycott was Jack’s manager, or
I guess he was more secretary and publicity man since Jack arranged all his
own fights. Anyway, one day Bud
comes rushing into Jack's quarters, all
excited. And when Bud was excited
things hummed. He was a wiry little
fellow with arms that waved all over
the place while he talked so fast you'd
only get every other word. Jack was
doing some light work with a rope when

| Bud grabs it out of his hands.

“You'll need something heavier than
that,’’ he hollers, ‘‘I’ve got a real fighter
for you now!”

“The man in the moon?” says Jack
with disgust.

But Bud wasn't to be dampened.
He'd gotten some real dope, it seemed.

|A guy called Sailor Watson, meaning

that he had a cousin who had a friend
who used to be in the Navy. We'd
never heard of the bird but his manager,
whose name was Mielke, was willing to
put up twenty-five thousand that he’d
We all guffawed at this
but it looked pretty straight. Usually
you couldn’t scare up a side bet of ten
cents against Jack. Money has a convincing voice and Bud was shooed off to
hunt up Watson’s record. He turned
out to be down at the botton of the
second raters and we didn’t know what
to make of things until Bud discovers
that he’s been training in secret for the
last five months.

“Huh!” says Jack. I suppose
they've been developing some new process, especially designed to cramp my
style. I’ve met that kind before. General idea that if you keep kicking a fellow
in the left knee cap he'll finally fall for
the count. Or something like that.
Bring him on.”

So the fight was booked for the 3rd of
September, making it just two months
away. Jack took his training pretty
easy being never very far from the
mark. In fact he had to fatten up a
bit first, so that he’d have something
Bud dug up a little

but darned near as much speed as Jack
and he was great for brushing up Jack's
foot work. Jack’d take him on in the
morning after a few miles of road work
and then polish off with a couple of big,

1}human punching bags, before lunch.

In the afternoon he'd just play golf or
do some gym work if the weather wasn’t

| | right.

Despite the light training I don't

 

 

>

By Chloride of Mercury

 

don’t think I'd ever seen the champ in
better shape. All the same, he was
worrying. Kind of foolish, considering
Watson's record, but it was the money
that was doing it.. Watson money was
everywhere. Maybe it all came from
the same source but there was sure an
awful pile. Some that Watson’d win,
but most that he'd stay the limit. And
it was drawing all kinds of odds, too.
It was a long time since Jack's backers
had had a chance to put money on him
and they were taking it up as high as
ten to one. Most of Jack’s private
pile was out with the bookers. He
wanted to clean up, knowing that he
was nearly through raking in the coin
until some new bird sprang up in the
fighting world. I had more’n a hundred bucks up, myself.

Bud went over to a couple of the
Sailor's workouts. He even’ spent a

few evenings entertaining some of his

camp hangers-on. But all he learned
was what he saw for himself, that Watson was slow as a steam roller with
nothing like its force.

So the night of the fight rolled up
with excitement at a great pitch and
the newspapers covered with question
marks and sage cracks. You see, it had
always been a great problem as to what
would happen if Jack met someone who
could weather those first few cyclone
rounds of his. Most of the writers
claimed that at the pace he hit, Jack
couldn’t last more than five rounds at
the outside. They said he’d just run
down like one of those toy boxers with
the spring inside and then everybody
with a couple of fists could knock him
to pieces. So with all this money
saying that Watson would stay, things
were humming and a big gate was sure.
The sporting guys hadn't been able to
see much of Watson and weren't much
impressed with what they did. But all
agreed that he was tough.

We came to town the morning of the
fight, about half a dozen of us, including
Jack's dog, a great big beautiful English
bull with a mouth like the gash of a
scythe. He was white with brown
markings around his head that gave him
the appearance of being lopsided with
one eye that was always black. You'll
excuse my describing the pup when I
tell you that he had a whole lot to do
with the fight, Bud and I coming next
in importance, and of course, Jack.
Every fight Jack had been in, that dog
was there, chained up in the dressing
room, and one of the first to greet him,

after he’d won. Ignatious was his
name. We called him Igg or Iggy for
short.

The stadium was packed to the edges
and we heard Watson get a big ovation
as he made his way down the aisle.
No Credit to the Sailor at all. It was
those who just naturally turn against
a fellow when he’s been top dog for long.
Jack grunted. I could see he was still
worried, apart from the natural nervousness a chap has at such a time, but he
felt better on entering the ring with the
stands rocking with cheers. He was the
white headed boy, all right.

The referee said grace in the usual
manner, in the centre of the ring while
Jack just looked at the stars, as an
experienced fighter should. Then he
slipped off his robe and boy he looked
nice. He stood an even six feet. He
had small hips and he tapered from the
floor up to his square shoulders like
those pictures ef a Greek god. He was
rather slight for a heavyweight, but
his muscles, instead of being knots, were
slim steel cables that rippled under his
tanned, glistening skin every time he
moved. Watson was a big hairy beast,
about Jack’s height, but stalky as Gibraltar with muscles like a truck horse.
And he had the funniest coloring I ever
saw. He was positively yellow. I
was wondering at it when bang! There
was the bell.

Swish, Jack was across the ring in a
flash and met the sailor coming out, with
both fists. He wasn’t worrying now,
as much by instinct as anything and he
was beautiful to watch. He forced the
Sailor back into his corner and, crouching away down, just whirled lefts and
rights to the body until Watson threw
both arms around his neck and tried to
clinch. Jack buried a left uppercut
under his armpit and broke it and as the
Sailor tried to slide out of the corner he

 

 

GLEE CLUB

POSTPONED

We regret to announce that owning to the illness of

Miss K. Hagen who was to have played the leading part, the
Glee Club show for tonight has been postponed.

Arrangements are under way for an emergency show,

consisting of moving pictures and vaudeville to take

place early in the week.

—Glee Club Management.

 

HEADQUARTERS

FOR EVERYTHING
IN

SPORTING GOODS

AT POPULAR PRICES

MacDonald Hardware Co
SPRING GARDEN RD.

 

 

Correct Apparel
for Co-eds
Afternoon, Evening

and Sports V ear
JENSEN & MILLS

CO., LIMITED
Spring Garden Road

 

    

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE.

D GLOVES

       

swung an awful right hook to the back of
the neck that knocked him into the
middle of the ring. He was right after
him and whanging away again.

settled back in my chair, grinning.
There was nothing to this. I'd seen

‘em pretty dumb but that Sailor boy]

was the biggest dud I'd ever laid eyes
on. He'd hardly tried to hit Jack,
let alone succeeded. I saw Jack back
off a bit and I decided he was going to
finish things right there. He swung
right low so that his back was in line
with his outstretched left and then
shot in for his famous one-two knockout.
The only time I’ve really seen him do
it is in the slow movies. It’s too fast
to follow, but what he does is to step
in fast and bury that lift ‘in the pit
of the stomach. Then come up with
all the force of his body, under the other
man's guard with a right to the button.
He did it and the Sailor’s head snapped
back like his neck was broken. But
that was all. He didn’t fall, didn’t even
wince. And he didn’t come at Jack
like a wildman. He just plodded along
as if nothing had happened while Jack
stood there for a moment and looked at
him in bewilderment. Then Jack piled
in again, until the bell.
“Hell, he’s tough,” grunts Jack as I
swing the towel. “I guess my prearation was too short and gentle but
‘ll get him this time.”
In he goes again and batters the
Sailor all over the ring for more than two
minutes. Then he tries the old knock
out affair again, adding a little var-|)|

lation he saves for specially tough customers. Following the right to the
button he slips up beside his man and
swings another right to the back of the
neck, just
then catches him as he goes forward with
a left to the button. Down goes Watson.
again, before the count, like he didn’t
feel the blow and it was just the force
of it that knocked him over.

By the third’round Jack was begin- |)
Watson hadn't],

ning to worry again.
laid a mit on him but he'd taken Jack’s
best without a quiver. ‘‘What d'ye
think y’are?”’ I hear Jack growling at
him between blows, ‘‘a punching bag?”’
But Watson takes a left smack that
flattens his nose without drawing a
drop of red and says never a word.

Jack tries another of his pet ones.
After being particularly fast and elusive
for a few moments, and doing everything to a man from stepping on his

toes to planting cauliflower on his ears, } |

he prances across the ring and stops,
hands by his sides, head on his chest,
right off his guard. Insult to injury
effect. I’ve never seen a man who
could resist ‘a wild roar and make a
dive at Jack. Like lightning Jack
will shift and meet him coming in, the
other fellow’s speed giving double force
to the blow. Watson comes over all
right, waddles over, like a hazy pig, arms
drawn by by his sides. Jack is so disgusted he slaps him with his open glove
and suggests they sit down and make
mud pies.

So the third round slips into the
fourth; the fifth and sixth go by. Jack
bowls Watson over a few times but he always comes up like a rowly powly.

“You can’t keep a good man down,”
hollers someone in the crowd.

‘"N you can’t sink a cork,” comes
back from the other side of the bowl.

There are a few cries for Watson to
come out and fight but he is fighting
in a kind of way and the referee can’t
do anything about it. And_ what's

worse, Jack is beginning to feel it pretty
bad. Getting tired, he’s puffing and
his hands are aching like a couple of
bad teeth. I look over the ringside

seats to catch Bud's eye but his seat is
vacant and [,Tonder what's up. Eight
rounds more! It was Watson's manager who pushed the fifteen round idea
and Jack didn’t care. He wasn’t
thinking past two or three. Of course
it gives Jack a better chance for a knockout but it also gives him more time to
tire after which Mr. Watson may hit
him, and Jack’s not used to taking
punishment. Jack can just stock along
and take the decision but what's the
good of that when you've laid every
cent on a knockout.

Jack gomes in from the seventh, kind
of feeble. I try to persuade him to
ease up for a few rounds.

“Half the fight’s to come yet, Jack,”’
I says.

‘Hell! I’ve got every cent up he won’t
ast.”

“Not everything, Jack,’’ I Mays,
trying ease him. ‘There's the
Pate: A avn vee

‘‘What do you know about my business? Tonight’s purse is up with everything else.”

Lordy, I didn’t know that. The
book must have done it himself, on the
side. ‘‘Even so,” | beg, ‘‘It’s better to
win the purse on decision than get
knocked out and loose everything.”’

That was a bad thing to say.

“Who's getting knocked out?” he
bellows. ‘“‘That bord’s a tough freak
but I’ll get him yet,” and he jumps up
at the bell.

And then it happens. I've been
scared of it the last two rounds. Jack
swings hard and loses his balance for
the fraction of a second and Watson
gets him with a real haymaker, the first
blow he’s landed. Jack drops flat.

to

The crowd goes mad, even to the wport )f

writers.
regular tattoo and the radio announcer
is screeching to make himself heard.
There’s Jack right out, the referee count
ing over him and holding off Watson

who's well marked but without a drop] |

of blood showing. I moan. Poor old

Jack. But at six he’s come to and at|f
seven he’s stretching across the floor ||
By eight |}

trying to reach the ropes.
he’s got them and I’m damned if he

doesn't pull himself to his feet as the] if

ref calls nine.
(Continued next week)

 

as his head swings back, |,

But he picks himself right up|!

Telegraph keys are beating a}/

Watcon comes at him,|

a SS ee me

Page Three

REFLECTIONS OF REX /

-a party may be a bore — the lady of
one’s choice may be dancing with another
-yet there's still a morsel of satisfaction in
the dreariest festivities for the man
‘who says

 

The Greatest Asset of a bus- |
iness is to give customers |
what they want—when jj
they want it. |

|
:

JOB AND SOCIETY PRINTING |

always delivered when
promised at the

NOVA PRINT Ltd

227-229 Hollis Street
One Block North of Post Office

Men’s Mufflers
at

HALF—PRICE

Frank Colwell Ltd.

_.,,New Address
417 Barrington Street
Opp. Church of England Institute

BUTTONS ON
RENTS MENDED
HOLES DARNED

That’s the service you get
free when you send YOUR
Laundry to Ungar’s.

VALETERIA

A new pressing Service:
Your Suit or Overcoat
Steam Cleaned and Pressed, for 75c or 4 Tickets
for $2.00.

NECKTIES cleaned 10c.

UNGAR’S

Barrington St., Halifax, N. S.

Sack 428 Har. 127
LAUNDERING DYEING
CLEANING VALETERIA

 

rom the

WINNERS "gm

 

For 60 years the REACH Trade
Mark on Sporting Goods has been
a mark of perfection. No matter
what your favorite sport may be, we
can supply you with equipment that
will help you play the game with
the best that’s in you.

CRAGG BROS., CO.,LTD.

Hardware and Sporting Goods
HALIFAX, N. S.

i PROGRAMMES
and other JOB PRINTING

receive our special attention

| The ROYAL PRINT & LITHO Ltd.

  
   
      
    

As Usual

The best in Ice Creams, Con
fectionery and Meals, as well

as courtesy, efficent service and

attractive surroundings are to
be had at

The Green Lantern

a =

  

MacLEOD, BALCOM,

—DRUGGISTS—
5 STORES

34 Morris St. 174 Spr. Garden Rd,
103 Young St. 139 Agricola St.
Cor. Quinpool Rd. and Oxford St.

HALIFAX, N.S.

 

 

Dalhousie Stationery |

24 Sheets Writing Paper
stamped with the Dalhousie Crest and 24 Envelopes to match.

Special 50c a Box

Connolly’s Book Shop |
487 BARRINGTON ST.
Opposite St. Paul’s Church

 

PIANOS, VICTROLAS,

Small Musical Instruments and Victor Records

We invite you to join our

FICTION LENDING LIBRARY

2 cents per day

McDonald Music Co.

93 Barrington St. Halifax

 

 

 

tHe SONG SHOP +7.
for ANYTHING in

MUSIC

22 Spring Garden Rd.
Halifax, : : Canada

HUBLEY’S

DRY CLEANING, DYING AND

PRESSING
VALETERIA
4 Tickets - ~ - - $2.00
52 Sackville Street, Phone § 109

| SOAP 7

For one week beginning January 23rd. j

H

u

4 Cakes of 10c. soap }
for 29c. |

Winsom, Coles, Jergms

——

7 Se

|Freeman’s Pharmacy |

COR. COBURG and HENRY |

t
————— =

IFYou Want To See WELL

SEE WALLACE

OPTOMETRIST AND OPTICIAN
Y. M,. C. A, BLDG, HALIFAX, N. 8

 

 

 

That Well
Groomed Appearance!

Have your hair cut every 10 days
by one of LEE’S expert barbers
and maintain a neat appearance.

LEE’S

Basement Barber Shop
48 Sackville St., Halifax, N. S.

 

 
  
  
 
       

    

  
 
   

  

Sm
for
La

    
 
 

 

 

away toa good start last Saturday

 
 
 
  

ro

promise of producing some fast basket
Ball afer the season closes. In_the
pening encounter Law defeated Engat ineers 2i—13. Following that the Meds
outscored the Dents 21—8; Theology
- trimmed Arts 22—14; and Commerce
-_——s- won from the Freshmen 20—15. Hockin
} for Theology and Mitchell for Law were

fi the two leading scorers for the afterf wos! noon, Line-ups and results:

  
 
 
  
 
 
  
   
 
  
 

. St toe game—Engineers 2; Hood 1;
As Hamilton 8; Keating 2; F isher; Beaton;

  

- Ritchie. Total 13. :

- Law—Doyle 2: Gaysie; McNaught;
- Outhit 5; Redmond 4; Mitchell 10.
‘eee, oral 282. 7, mt fH

ss Qnd | game—Meds: Cheeseman 4;
| ——‘ Jennings; Miller; Douglas 8; Jones 2;

Ross 1; Morash 2; Hewit 4. qe
i Dents: Sullivan 4; Harris 2; Winfield;
Clough; McIntosh; Godsoe 2;
3rd Game—Theology: Frame 8;
— Hockin i McLean 2; Tupper; Fraser;
Archibald.
aA Se! yd N. Parker; Doyle 2; McRae 2;

Chisholm 2; K. Mattheson; Zwicker;
— MeLellan 4; Dockril 4.

_. 4th Game—Commerce: R. Laurence;
__ R. Slayter; G. Mahon; R. Mattheson 6;
RB. McColl; L. Miller 6; Olive 4; Guest;
os Hagriss; ye

Freshmen: R. Miller 6; A Nickerson;
 -O. Hewitt 4; C. Clark 1; J. Hewitt;
-_- Harris; MacDonald 4.

ral " GAMES TOMORROW

oie ad "Bets ee Commerce at 2:30; Theology
‘| ——s-yvs Freshmen at 3:10; Dents vs Law at
wets. 3:50; and Meds vs Engineers at 4:30.

\, q ‘f ‘ ———————
---- Don’t forget the Med Dance in the Dal
Gym next Monday night.
Vea ‘ Question every Dalhousie man should
aoe? uD “Will you come with me to the Med

-, Dance?”
——

GIRLS SENIORS LOSE — INTER“MEDIATES TIE

‘Dalhousie’s Senior and Intermediate
_ Girls’ Basketball teams played a game
each at the West End Baptist Hall on
Monda‘ ’ an. 23% ;
PL hs toe eae game Dalhousie Sen jors clashed with the crack Ex-Dal housie girls) The game was fast throout and Ex-Dal had a decided edge.
The final score 48—16 would indicate
a complete walk-over for the X-College
_ girls, But on the contrary all through
the game they played their hardest
and the Dal team put up a strong fight.
In the first half the Dal seniors showed
up well. The combination was ood
and the ball was handled without much
aes A funbling. In the second period the
| _—_—_ wonderful condition of the X-Dal team
eal won out against our girls. Carol Haw{| __ kins and Marion Campbell were fed
}. continuously and popped in basket after
i" basket, without much opposition from
Dalhousie. The Dal team would speed
up sometimes and flashed brilliant form,
ry shown in the rushes of J. Dumaresq and
fas - Fraser. It is interesting to note that
Carol Hawkins fouled for the first time
in two years. She had one technical
‘called on her. There were very few
fouls and the game was clean all the time.
- The second game between Dalhousie
Intermediates and Simpson’s Go-getters
mat was rough and many personal fouls were
if called. In the first half Dal played a
steady, consistent game and it took
the Simpson defense a long time to find
fel out Isabel Wood’s method of scoring.
|. The Go-getters held the Dal girls down
| well and a great second period was
. anticipated by the spectators. When
Bi hiya” the first period ended the score stood
i's, 11—6 in favor of Dalhousie. _
The second half started with a rush
and Simpson's staged a mighty comeback. The Dalhousie girls were completely baffled for a few minutes, and
the Go-getters piled up a_ score.
Dal had lost its bearings and when the
Pe girls came back to playing basketball
a they tried desperately to keep the
lead. Both teams settled down to a hard
- battle for a victory and the result was a
tie. The score was 16—16 when _ the
final whistle blew. In this period the
- Simpson's Go-Gettersproved themselves

 
 
  
     
 
  
 
  
    
 
  
   
  
   
  

  
 

v1

  
 

    
 
  
   
   

~

 

   
 
 
   
 
 
 
 

id
-*
‘

2
.

     
  

aaa
r
~~,

*
——
wt

fa

 
 
   
    
  
    
   
  
    
   
    
  
  
 
  

 

 

   
  

  
 
 

 

aie Nt hi oh

i ae ;

nee rer SILVER OMING TO ORPHEUS
f : : _ Special Attraction Monday Tuesday
: ae : and Wednesday

NS _. Trene Rich dances through ‘The

  
  

:
a
a

—

as

of ee
oa

iu roe
‘a oe ne
=

ig

‘ment, a verve and gaiety, which carries
the idea to its highest point. As a girl
she had been married to a man of wealth

and much her senior. In due time he

    
 

Pa Ue
7 Z
i
ns
be
or +.
a

widow’s disposal until such time as she
should decide to remarry. The child

 
   
   
    
  
  
   

ws he apes of a. millionaire man-abouttown casting aside the sweetheart of her
childhood. “Her captivating mother, at
at her wits’ end to prevent her daughter
> WE” | sak ecides to win

'
4

aT
as a i +
a,

— ~= ‘ aa =

   

her own mistake, d
beau from her, and does so. The
trious, and when an earlier lover
nother comes she sets her cap for
\ ee _double-crosses oe too.

" + hodge e-pt dee is of cours

sisted en fe should be. -SopN
rt Slave’

meet th
latter's gym.

a aes cay a ng A re.
in Interfaculty
ms rie pees e7 ee o " ; ; i

he Interfaculty Basketball League

t the Studley Gym. All the games
ere hard fought and the league gives

  
    
     
   
   
      

Silver Slave” with an evident enjoy-||

went the way of all flesh, leaving a small |]
_ daughter and a fortune which was at his ||

_ grows to womanhood and starts in|}

Te

i

i itwcm ie Scat a pr a
KUEe Cl OS are hire ears
ee ee

i
- es ae i. ree é
Cyne es SY ee

 

To-Morrow night the Dal Senior
Basketball five will piey its first game
in the Halifax City ee They will
‘their old rivals the “‘Y’’ in the

Although not as hee
last year's championship team the ig
ers are expected to give the strong
five a hard game. Manager George
MacIntosh will select his team during
the week. The following will probably
find places on it; Ab Smith, Charley
Jones; George McLeod, Ross, Sperry
and Langstroth. A large crowd of
students should be on hand to give

‘their team a hand. Support from the

bleachers counts a lot and if the Dal
ball tossers are given the right sort of
encouragement they should come through with a win.

Much comment, pro and con, is being
expressed on the “‘conditioning”’ of many
of Dal’s athletes. At present three
star hockey players and several Basketball players have been ordered to cease
taking part in any sport. Although
ultimately the blame must fall on the
student himself, from the point of view
of the result this experiment seems to
have several flaws. First it robs the
University of the services of several
players who' would be a much needed
addition to the teams from which they
have been barred. Secondly, the plucking wasn’t due to the players activities
in the realm of sport but to other
attractions which the University authorities are powerless to stop. As a result
of this the players are barred from athletics, not because athletics interfere
with their studies but because it is the
only way the faculty can curtail their
outside activities. Whether this has had
‘any good effect is hard tosay. Frankly
we don't think so. A hockey player
who isn’t allowed to play games will go
to the games anyway. Even if he
doesn't it is doubtful whether he would
spend his extra leisure hours studying.

hen what about the student who gets

ploughep in as many, but who
doesn’t take part in nay form
of athletics, is he barred from
attending the dances, the movies

or from debating, playing bridge, going
to the games? Far from it, his plight
is similar to the unfortunate athlete
insofar as he has to drop a few subjects
or carry them on on probation but with
him it ends there, not so with the athlete,
in addition to the ordinary method of
disciplining Christmas failures he is
given special attention and must drop
one or other of the really worth while
pastimes that were his. There may be
much to be said on the other side of the

uestion. As mentioned above it is
the student’s own fault but why make
a distinction and put the irons on the
athlete while the dance hall sheik and
the lounge lizards get off. Heaven
knows the present crop of athletic stars

blooming at Dalhousie is meager enough!

While other Maritime Colleges have
hockey teams carrying their colours to
distinction both at home and abroad
the Gold and Black is humbled by the
puck chasers of a Collegiate school.

 

no mean opponents. Miss_ Washington played well for Simpson's,
while the pick of the Dal team

was Pauline Miller.
Lineups:—for Dal.

Senior—C. J. Dumaresgq., J. Fraser,
G. H. Robertson, E. Shaw, M. Proctor,
F. A. McCurdy, A. Atherton.

Intermediate — M. MacDonald,
E. Cameron, E. DesBrisay, P. Miller,
L. Barnstead, I. Wood, B. Freeman.

eninge peers

MAJESTIC NOTES

 

One of the finest love stories ever
filmed, as well as a remarkably vivid
and colorful portrayal of the rich life
of the Middle West, is to be found in the
screen version of the late Gene StrattonPorter’s famous novel ‘“Laddie’’ which
comes to the Majestic Theatre next
Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday.
Leo Meehan, who produced and di
rected the picture for F. B. O., is the|
noted author’s son-in-law, and under |}
his sympathetic touch the book lives | j
again and its characters move in a||
surprisingly lifelike and exact fidelity to| ff

the original.

John Bowers does some of the greatest | #
work of his career in the title role, and | #
Bess Flowers makes a lovely and appeal- |}

ing Pamela, Such screen favorites as

David Torrence, Eugenia Gilbert, Ar- |}
Neil | |

thur Clayton, Fanny Midgley,
Neely, John Fox jr., and little Gene

Stratton, the novelist’s granddaughter, | §

are in the cast, and do their part to make

the picture one of the outstanding suc-|

cesses of the year.

2 ~ cnet Pt —

Our High Quality Standard
| makes our Low Price
| Doubly Attractive

| SUITS, OVERCOATS |
|

 

 

FULL DRESS and
| TUXED6®, at one

price

*24

MADE-TO-MEASURE
) . i : es . i
| lip Top Tailors }
| THE STUDENTS’ TAILORS |
|| TRAMWAY BUILDING
Barrington and Sackville Sts

ts

;
'
)
:
'

e

7

nt - . r

____ DALHOUSIE GAZETTE _

With Scissors and

 

Neer ee ee

Paste Pot

 

Athletes from a sister university were]
‘|entertained on Friday Jan. 7th, when

the members of Dalhousie University
rugby team were banqueted by the re
esentatives of Saskatehewan. Coming from Calgary they were met at the
station by local officials, given a dinner
at the King George Hotel, shown around
the city and entertained at a tea in
Saskatchewan Hall.

—The Shell.

The University of Alberta now has its
broadcasting station C. K. U. A. This
was built by the Extension Department
under Mr. A. E. Wells and Mr. Brown.
The station and towers are situated
upon the highest point of land in the
city.

 

—The Gateway.

 

The noted Alberta scientist, professor
Collip, co-discoverer of Insulin and one
of the foremost Canadian birochemists
was appointed head of the Department
of Birochemistry at McGill.

—The Gateway

 

What is believed to be the largest
foreign enrolment of any strictly American college in the United States has
been reported by the University of
Chicago, who has 397 foreign students,
representing 42 countries. Canadians
lead with an enrolment of 156. China
and Japan take second and third places
with 101 and 25  respectively.—The
Industrial Collegian.

 

President C. D. Gray of Bates College
has appointed a student committee
of twelve to examine the curriculum
and suggest modifications and changes.
The students will carry on the work
began by a senior committee last year.
Three other groups are working on the
same problem, one composed of teachers,
another of alumni, and a third, serving
as advisory, of outsiders.

Students in the College for Women
at Western Reserve University have
selected representatives to serve as
their agents.in presenting to the faculty
complaints against the curriculum. They
are members of the student council,
who will work in conjunction with a
faculty committee, to whom they will
make recommendations after passing
on student complaints.

— New Student.

 

The names of the McGill debaters
who will take part in the debate against
the Maritime Team here on February
2nd were unofficially announced last
night. Donald Edmison and Budden
will compose the home team. All of
these men are well-known in the debating circles of the university and have
had wide experience in the Union and
elsewhere.

The Maritime Team is touring the
country debating at the various Canadian universities under the auspices
of the N.F.C.U.S. While in Montreal
it will also hold a debate with the University of Montreal. The visiting team
is captained by Mr. Elbert Paul. who
will lead in all the debates.

There are two subjects to choose from;
the decision in regard to the choice is
left to the home team. The Maritimers
however, will uphold the negative of
éither resolution while the McGill men
must defend the motion. The official
reading of the first subject is ‘‘Resolved
that sport is carried to excess in Canadian university life,’’ and of the second,
‘Resolved that the Canadian Universities should combine to form a national
scheme of education.”’

—McGill Datly, Jan. 10.

Students’ meetings in Roumania have
resulted in damage of $1,000,000 being
done. So there are such things as
enthusiastic student meetings.

—MecGill Daily.

 

There was a fluttering of hearts and
downcast looks at the United Theological College recently when a notice
appeared on the official board that the
students in future would not have as
as free hand in their matrimonial affairs
as had formerly been the case, and that
a student for the ministry employed to
supply in one of their charges should not
marry without the consent of the College
Faculty. McGill Daily.

 

Won over by the policy of athletics
for all instead of ‘‘the starring of eight
or ten,’’ students at the Women’s College of Alabama have voted to banish
intercollegiate athletics in favor of
games for all the institution. The
Wo-Co-Ala News says the college
“is justly proud of her position.”

—The Gateway.

 

U. of A. COUNCIL HAS TROUBLE

(An Editorial)

Seriously, however, we must face the
fact that our system of student government has come to almost a full stop.
Since the budget meeting of the Union
last October, the Council has failed

 

utterly and miserably in its efforts to] |

corral a quorum of students to discuss
and legislate on Union business. Interest in student organizations is at an
irreducible minimum—no one cares
what happens to anything. It is the
honest belief of many student officials
that even the resignation of the entire
Students’ Council, and the complete
cessation of activity in all student organizations, both athletic and _ literary,

would not cause more than a ripple||

in the serene calm of student life at the

U. of A. It would be interesting to
findout. (The Gateway. U. of Alberta). | ff
———_—_————_—_————_—_—_—_—— 4

THE MEDICAL BALL

 

Novelty is the keynote in the plans];

for the Dalhousie Student Medical
Society dance which is scheduled to

talte place next Monday evening. The}}

committee have spent much time in
preparation and everything points to an
excellent affair. Tickets are being sold
by representatives of the society. Each
ticket is numbered and the person holding the lucky one will get his money
refunded.

  
    
 

STUDENTS’ |
LAMPS AND SUPPLIES

FARQUHAR BROS. LTD.

Barrington Street

    

TELLOW ‘CAB

LIMITED

SAC. 4444

Halifax’s Only Metered
Service

     
     
      

Same Rates 24 Hours.
Two tra vel for same as one.
More than two, 20centsextra,

 
   
 

COLWELL BROTHERS

Limited

453-457 Barrington Street

MEN’S HATS, CLOTHING, FURNISHINGS
AND LUGGAGE

HIGH CLASS GOODS AT MODERATE PRICES

 

  
  

To Dalhousie Students

In$tructing Staff with

 

Nova Scotia Techni

Offers
ENGINEERING COURSES

in
CIVIL, ,.ELECTRICAL, MECHANICAL AND MINING
with Engineering Diploma
MODERN EQUIPMENT

Tuition Fee $75.00 per year. Twenty-five scholarships of $75.00 each
Write or call for Calendar or advice.

          

 

nica

        
 

Industrial Experience

      

F. H. SEXTON, Pres.

 

THRILLS PROMISED IN COMING] |
SPOOKY MOVIE MELODRAMA

EVEN IN THE WEST!

A representative of THE HALIFAX HERALD
recently returned from a 8,000 mile tour of Canada.
In the far West, thousands of miles from Halifax, he
found people, former residents of this province,
reading

THE HALIFAX HERALD and greatly interested in the news of progress in Nova Scotia.

Are YOU interested in the prosperity of this fine
old province by the sea? If so you'll enjoy reading.

THE HALIFAX HERALD

AND

THE EVENING MAIL

 

   
     
    
  
 

 

More thrills than ‘‘The Bat'’. More
mystifying than ““The Mystery Club!”

That is the universal prediction of
critics who have seen ‘‘The Cat and the
Canary” the super mystery drama,
with an all star cast, which comes to
the Casino Theatre the first four days of
next week.

Weird shadows and sounds, a maniac
at large on a country estate, a murder
and a melange of conflicting suspicions,
are a few of the elements that made
‘The Cat and the Canary” one of the
most talked about pictures of the year.

It was directed by Paul Leni, the
most famous of foreign directors who
have come to this country. A featured
cast of players surrounds Laura La
Plante in the picture including among
many others, Arthur Edmund Carew,
Creighton Hale, Forrest Stanley, Gertrude Astor, Flora Finch, Tully Marshall,
George Siegmann and Martha Mattox.
Alfred Cohn made the screen adaptation from the stage play of the same
name by John Willard.

EEA LE LNT EE CER
NOTICE!

Special Students’ Discount

CONDONS

Nien’s Store

MODERN

PRINTING
t

a
MODERATE
CosT

T. C. Allen & Co

124 & 126 Granville Street

 

NOTICE!

Now is the time to get your
Tuxedo when dances, etc., are in
full swing.

“THE NONCHALANT’”’
SILK LINED
AT MY NEW PRICE

$24.50
Robinson’s Clothes Ltd.

444 Barrington St,
Opp. Roy Building
“Walk Up Stairs and Save Ten"’

 

Halifax Chronicle

AND
Che
Balifax Daily Star
The
fastest growing
newspapers in
Nova Scotia

 

| All DalhousieStudents
especially the Book Lovers
are cordially invited to make

THE BOOK ROOM

141 Granville Street
their Headquarters

 

Come in and browse and
make yourself at home.

E. VICKERY, Manager.

 

REPAIRS

_ Don’t start the New Year handicapped with a pen that does not
write satisfactorily.

It may need but slight adjustment—or expert repair—bring in
the pen and you can get both at

‘“FARRELL’S

391 Barrington St.

A Complete Book—Stationery
and Gift Shop Service

 

: . : ‘
Oa he) ss fe ee i 2 Ae at “ee &

    
    

 

 

 

SSS eee
) :
To readers of
The Dalhousie Gazette

EXPERT
FOUNTAIN PEN

 

January 27th, 1928

a 
The Balance of This Week

THE FIRST OLD COUNTRY
PANTOMIME TO VISIT
CANADA

“ALADDIN ”

MON. TUE. WED.

GENE STRATTON—PORTER'’S
FAMOUS NOVEL

LADDIE

STRAND - NOW
“THE CARROLL PLAYERS”

CASINO

THIS THUR-FRI-SAT.

T OM
ME Pe xX

in

“Outlaws of Red River’’
“Captain Kidd’s Kids’’
‘The Trail of the Tiger’’
First Four Days Next Week

The World’s Greatest Mystery
Thriller

‘*The Cat and The Canary”’
with
Laura LaPlante
and an

All Star Cast

ORPHEUS

MON. TUE. WED.

“THE SILVER SLAVE”

STARRING

   
    

Irene Rich

    
 
  
 

  

THUR. FRI. SAT.

“MOULDERS OF MEN”

  

P_————

George F. Power

Cigars, Cigarettes, Tobacco
SMOKERS’ REQUISITES

of every Description

—Also—

Cards, Souvenirs of Halifax
Majestic Bldg.
HALIFAX, 
 
      
     

Kinley’s

THE REXAL
DRUG STORE

For everything in

  
 
 
  
   
   

Drug Store Needs

499 Barrington Street
Phone Sack. 61

Globe Laundry Ltd

50 Buckingham Street

    
 

 

G.W.SPRAGUE, Vice- Pres.
C. W. SPRAGUE, Pres.

     
 

 

The College Students’
Laundry

Telephone Sac. 714

         
   
  
 
   
  
  

lll
CLASS
JEWELLERY

We enjoy the distinction of
making practically all Dalhousie
Class Jewellery.

We appreciate the trust placed
in us by the Dalhousie students
and in turn always assure them
of our very best service.

HENRY BI ;
BURKS & Sons

Diamond Merchants HALIFAX

     
 

 
