I
mn

!
|

  

ig
rr

THE OLDEST

Pe
PG
Mp

COLLEGE PAPER
IN AMERICA

i pent os

mr

|
I |
nino

MEU) ae

;

  
    

 

—Official Student Publication at Dalhousie University—

   
   
 
   

Ee ES Ss ee a

ars HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA, FEBRUARY 24th, 1928

— es ee SS naena
——

LOS, SKITS AND SINGER'S SYMPHONY SHOWS STARS

STARS
HOCKIESTS DEFEAT ‘GLEE CLUB SHOW PLEASES
TIGERS IN FAST GAME LARGE AUDIENCE WITH VARIED PROGRAM

a ee Before one of the largest crowds that ever witnessed an Intercollegiate Hockey

> | |}/MR. SINGER AND HIS GLEE CLUB SYMPHONY SCORE
Ee : Te the Dal Tigers and the U. N. B. sextette battled for three exciting periods
ae _ in a game that was. replete with action, rampant with thrill and chock full of College

BIG SUCCESS IN FIRST APPEARANCE
~ atmosphere.

ea ____ Long before the time for the game to start, even before the gates were opened,

-___ the fans began to arrive and noisily waited in line for the doors to open. At last
_____ the gates were thrown open to the happy throng and it was all “‘Fat’’ MacKenzie
and his band of helpers were able to do to hold them in check. The seats were
fast filled and from then on to the start of the game the crowd steadily increased
until the whole south side of the rink was a sea of faces. Packed in the north side
of the rink a small but noisy contingent of U. N. B. fans, who couldn't stay away
from the game, made the rafters ring with their College yells.

ae . ° oe ——_ eS
The visitors were the first to take the and the final whistle sounded with the

~>
LA oly

 
   
   
    
  

   
 
 
 
 
   
  
 

 

Skating |

The Council of Students hav
engaged the Forum for Wednesday evening, Feb. 29, and on
that date the third Dal Night of
the season will be held. With
good ice assured the evening
should be thoroughly enjoyed
by all students. The more present, the better will be the enjoyment of all.
LET'S GO!

Old Grad Writes

 

 

 

 
 
 
   
 
  

Conductor

 

Patrons of Glee Club who attended the concert staged by that organization
in the Dalhousie gymnasium on Wednesday 15, were regaled with a performance
which was epoch-making in its style and finish, Orchestral selections, piano and
vocal solos, and dramatics combined to make the evening one of enjoyment and
pleasure. .

The main attraction and the unqualified hit of the evening was apparent fro m
the moment that the parting curtain disclosed the Dalhousie Symphony orchestra
under the direction of S. S. Singer. Throughout the evening the competent
‘‘Sousa’’ lead his followers through the mazes of beautifully intricate selection
to the heights of fame and unrestrained student applause. ;

   

 
 

  
    
   
  
  
 

ice and the fans rose as a man to give
them a hand. Never in the history of
the" league has a team been given such
a thunderous ovation by the Dal student body. But it was as nothing to the
avalanche of noise which rocked the
arena as the Tigers, resplendent in their
- new uniforms, skated on the ice. It
was fully five minutes before the noise
died down enough for the huge
_—-—s gathering to realize that the game was
goon to start. Before the first whistle,
speculation was rife as to the ability
of the U. N. B. men as they weaved in
and out among their team-mates, pass
| checking, scoring, and giving a

as they warmed up for the battle of the
season. The appearance of Hugh MacKinnon on the Dal line up caused a
roar of welcome to shake the building.
It was followed by three lusty cheers
for Prof. Murray McNeil. Truly it
Be ee was a happy, noisy crowd.

beet _ Atsharp 8:15 the game got underway
Sa and Referee Neil Wilkie soon realised
ss that ~+he’d have some job keeping his

hee, mind on the game, so great was the
Heat et. roaring of the Dal supporters. He did
ta hag remarkably well however and many

pa cc” ‘of the fans were comparing him to
Be lh hs wh _ Cooper Smeaton before the game was
Pe fe) oe avers Shertly after the whistle

the U. N. B. forward line broke through
the Dal defense, the Dal fans cheered
ss madly _as Ferguson stopped an_ un
ee mere shot, and howled gleefully,
as the visiting centre grabbed the re_ bound and missed an open net. Play
neared the ‘visitor's net but the con
sistent back-checking of the U. N. B.
front line was a great obstacle in the
functioning of the Dal forwards and
_ they were unable to get as far as the

Rhee! ie =

age U.N. B. blue line in the first ten minutes. On the defense Dal shone, and
a Se _ although Ferguson had a lot to do he
~~ did it nobly and the visitors shots were
a

: turned aside with ease by the crafty
eae Dal net custodian.
ae MacCunn and MacKinnon staged
‘7 successive rushes up the ice but the
visiting defense cleared successfully and
. the attacking line from the West rapped
rod, A shots at Ferguson in rapid succession.
Godsoe came on and went the length
ay of the ice only to be spilled near the
U. N. B. blue line. The visitors were
forcing the play for a short time but the
Dal forwards soon took control of the
rubber and before long the play shifted
to the visitor's territory.
hos Most of their shots were off the net
as however and the visiting goalie had little
a to do. A smart attack by the Dal
forwards nearly resulted in a score but
ae Taylor’s shot hit the post. It was a
tS lucky break for U. N. B. and their
We supporters breathed as Keene cleared.
ae The period ended with the teams fightpe ing for possession in centre ice.
at | The second session opened with the
\ eee visitors attacking and for a while they
. were very dangerously near scoring.
Eon The Dal defense cleared however, but
car it was of no avail as Keene picked up a
be loose puck on the Dal blue line and
drove it behind Ferguson, into the net.
A groan went up from the Dal bleacher
but the visiting rooters howled themselves hoarse. From then on to the

Fey close of the period the Tigers fought
might and main for a score but they

i were unable to get in scoring position,
es Ferguson again proved his worth in the

lads de
penny Dal net as he ‘turned aside shot after
Bahl shot that had goals marked all over it.
bits ees The visitors had a slight edge in the
aah play this period. ;
aA, The final session opened with the Dal
45% rooters yelling long and loud for a
ly score. Apparently the team were
Tr just as anxious for they jumped to the
ns ‘attack at the first whistle and stormed
ie around the U. N. B. goal mouth. The

ce visitors cleared however and Ferguson
BF saved ascorcher from Keene. The game
“ie : became more exciting as time passed
i ea and the Tigers began to bump their
| “opponents around roughly. Godsoe was
bate knocking them down like nine pins while
Rite x little Jakey Power took a trip to sinners
Bae avenue for ramming a husky visitor into
the boards.
to the
-_rooter from U. N. B. started saying a
few things that Jake didn’t like. Quick
| - action by Aub Tupper prevented a near
riot. As the closing minutes approached
the Dal rooters became almost frantic
in their appeals for a score. It was
apparent to all present that it would be

As Jackey made his way
box a somewhat reckless

re the support from the bleachers that
would turn the tide. And so it came to

pass that the
oyal support

mew i
: :

Tigers, urged on by their
ers, ran amuck for five
when the smoke cleared

 

ing, cl t
i apendid demonstration of combination,

‘and the Y's five man defense was

score 2—1 in favour of Dalhousie and
mad cheering of the Dal fans could be
heard for blocks. ‘You did the trick
to-night boys!’ screamed the crowd”
“No,” yelled the team, ‘‘it was you who
did it, you and your support.” And so
it was. For as we wended our way from
the rink ‘‘Fat'’ MacKenzie remarked
“Tf the Dal rooters hadn't showed up
we woulda lost 1—0."’ And so we did.

The Dal line-up: Goal, Ferguson;
Defense: MacKinnon, MacCunn; Forwards: Taylor, Godsoe, Power, Sangster, Foley.

Y.M.CA. Defeats
Dalhousie 36-29

By the score of 36—29 the Y. M.C. A.
Basketball quintette defeated the Dalhousie five at the Y gym last Saturday
night. The winners have yet to be
defeated.

The game opened with the Y attacking and, in the first period, they had
much the better of the play. Their
com was working better than ever and
they netted 22 points before the whistle
sounded. On ‘the other hand the
Tigers were somewhat off in their shooting and they only managed to score 13
points.

The second half was the more interesting and a last minute rally by Dalhousie brought them within one basket
of the Y. The Tigers forced the play
ept
working overtime to hold them. The
Tigers gradually crept up on the Y and
shortly before the final whistle were al!
but even with their opponents. But the
Y succeeded in holding them and added
a few more for themselves before the
game ended. The final score was
thirty six to twenty-nine. Ross and
Murphy were the pick of the Dal team.

The lineup: Davidson 2; MacLeod 5;
Ross 11; Murphy 10; Smith; Sperry 1;
Jones. Ted Coaffee refereed.

In the second game the Tech squad
defeated the St. Georges five by the
score of 58—23.

The Dal second team lost their second straight game in the City Intermediate League when they were defeated by the league leading Wanderers
26—24. The game was a hard fought
contest all the way and the Wanderers
were lucky to get away with a win.

The first session ended with the Wanderers having a one point lead and although the Dal team succeeded in evening the count, they lost out in the last
minute of the game when the Wanderers Captain, Laing, was given two
throws, both of which he scored. It
was the same way they lost their game
last week. The Wanderers are now the
undisputed leaders of the league.

Dal lined up as follows: Goudge 7;
Sullivan 2; Miller; Mitchell 4; McRae 2;
Parker 1; Pottie 2; Fraser 2; Wilson;
Stewart 4; Hood refereed.

Biology Club

The Biology Club gave evidence of
its popularity at its meeting of last
Thursday night. George Whiteley of
St. Johns, Newfoundland was the speaker, ‘‘Fishing on the Canadian Labrador’’ his subject. George gave a
witty and instructive address, telling
in detail the methods used in the Labrador fishery, his account being supplemented by a description of the natural beauties of the country, and some
references to the recent acquisition
from Canada that Newfoundland
had piously accomplished on the Labrador coasts. Illustrations by lantern
slides and by movies aided in visualizing the Labrador landscape. Besides
being one of the best meetings held by
the Biology Club, the occasion was
ako marked by the fact that the students attending the Short Course for
Fishermen attended.

Mrs. Maxwell and Mrs. W. G. Stewart were the guests of honour that evening. Dr. A. H. MacKay, Dr. A. G.
Huntsman, director of the fisheries
Experimental Station, Dr. A. H. Leim
Assistant Director, Mr. Hetherington,
Mr. Loft of Grimsby, England, and
Professor Angus Macdonald were among
the other guests of the club.

The next meeting of the Biology club
will be held in the Forrest Building,
8 p.m., Thursday, March Ist. Miss
Sheila MacDonald and Miss Aileen
Macaulay will be the speakers.

 

 

 
   
   
  
  
  
  
   
  
  

To Gazette

If anyone is uncertain of the true
meaning of that much discussed phrase,
“College Spirit,’ the reading of the
following two letters from Mr. J.
Annand should do much to clear up
any obscurity on the subject. The
first letter was received last November
and the fact that a man, who had graduated from Dalhousie fifty-nine years
ago and still kept in touch with his
Alma Mater was so striking that the
editor wrote to Mr. Annand and asked
him to write further of ‘““The Life of a
Little College’.

The second letter was received a few
days ago and is printed in full.

The letters are as follows:—

 

Hantsport, N. S.,
9th Nov. 1927.
Mr. Ralph S. Morton,
Business Manager of
The Dal. Gazette

Dear Sir:—Enclosed please find a
one dollar bill, my renewal subscription
for the Dalhousie Gazette—It is now
legal to send a one dollar note in an
unregistered letter, so 1 take the risk
of its loss.

- The Gazette is growing old and it is
becoming better in its old age. Would
that the same could be said of all people.

The class with which I graduated was
that of 1869. There were only five of
us who took B. A., in the year the Gazette was born. ;

All my class mates and all our professors have “gone wzst.”’

I wish you and all the staff of the
college paper great success in your efforts
to produce a superior paper.

Yours faithfully,
J: ANNAND.

Hantsport, N.5.,
17th February 1928

Mr. Fred C. Jennings, _
Editor of the Dalhousie Gazette

Dear Sir, I have delayed answering
your letter so long that I am ashamed to
write you now—lllness in our home ts
my excuse for not writing sooner—Mrs.
Annand was in bed for ten or eleven
weeks and I was not well enough to
take up any extra work.

Fifty-nine years have passed since we
graduated in the Dalhousie of those
days. The university was then near
the centre of the city at the Parade.
The greater number of us entered from
the north side. Our gowns were hidden
in the coal bins instead of being worn
on the street as we were expected to do.
The cellar was our dressing room and
we appeared in class fully robed.

Those were the days of small things.
There were no graduates in Arts, Medical classes had been held for a year
but there was+no graduates. None of
the other many sciences now taught in
the University were then studied.

Athletics were almost unknown among
us. Football was sometimes practised
on the Common. Of course there were
no ladies then seen in the class rooms.
Dancing was an‘almost unknown pleasure—smoking was prohibited. However
the College accomplished its purpose.
All five of our '69 class became very
useful men in their several spheres.
Four of them have finished their work
and gone home.

Yours sincerely,

J. ANNAND.

 

Distinguished Guest
Coming To Dalhousie

RT. HON. R. B. BENNETT
WILL ARRIVE HERE MARCH 9—UNIVERSITY
PLANS WELCOME

The Rt. Hon. R. B. Bennett, K. C.,
““Dalhousie’s Most Distinguished Graduate’ who recently instituted the
Weldon Chair in the Law School, is
coming to visit us on March, the ninth.

Dalhousians will rejoice to hear that
such a distinguished son and sturdy
supporter of the University is to be in
our midst, and will, no doubt, give him
a hearty welcome.

 

 

S. S. Singer, whose painstaking skill has
worked wonders with the Glee Club
Symphony.

P. T. Going Strong

Physical training has come to Dalhousie. An organized physical training
class under the direction of Mr. Stirling
has been underway for the last two
weeks.

The P. T. Class has come as a direct
answer to those students who so lately
expressed their opinion in the columns
of the ‘‘Gazette’’ that there should be
physical training at Dal. This class is
not compulsory but it is regularly organ ized Rae efficiently handled and affords
the opportunities of systematic exercise
the absence of which hasbeen deplored
by many representative students.

The class which meets from 5:30 to
6 p.m. every week-day except Wednesday and Saturday, owes its beginning in great part to Mr. Hal Beaton
who gathered together the boys who
from the nucleus of the class.

Anybody in the university is privileged to attend and everybody is heartily invited to do so. Students who
wish to avail themselves of the class
should join it immediately so as not to
be behind the other members.

The response to this experiment will
be a good indication as to whether we
should have compulsory training. The
students of this college who have expressed themselves in favor of compulsory P. T. will no doubt hasten to
participate in the class. They approve
of P. T. and would have it compulsory,
let us see how they will support this

class.
—R: A-D.

 

 

Convocation Play

“THE SHOW-OFF"” has been chosen
as the 1928 Convocation Play. This
comedy, by George Kelly, played with
great success in Philadelphia and New
York in 1924 and '25, afterwards playing in some of the other large cities.
As far as we know, the Dalhousie Players will be the first company to present
it in Canada.

The first tryouts for the men were
held yesterday afternoon and evening
and judging by the efforts of the candidates, the male roles are sure to be
handled capably.

Tryouts for the girls will be held
within the next few days and the Glee
Club hope to see a good turnout.

Mr. Walter C. Mackenzie has been
appointed Business Manager of the
production.

 

 

The many friends of Mrs. R. J. Bean
extend their sympathy on the death of
her father in Kentucky. Prof. and
Mrs. Bean left Halifax last Monday in
order to attend the funeral.

Debate

What a subject for debate at Munro
Room next Thursday night!

Resolved that Modern Civilization
causes our physiques to become rundown! What's your complaint or what
ails you: blame it on the Modern Civilization! High Cost of Living, Mussolini, Ford Cars, Kelly and Graham—
all the fault of modern civilization.
Now comes a new tackle: modern civilization wears down, tears down, drags
down our constitutions.

Morris MacKinnon, Rand Mathieson
and Hazel Williamson are the principals
in this littlke argument. Come on up
and throw in your two cents, eh?

 

As a “first night’’ performance, the
work of the orchestra was a striking
success and Mr. Singer is to be highly
complemented on his able conducting.
During the rendition of the more difficult selections his competent baton seemed a thing alive and vibrant with personality carrying the performers on to
great and beautiful endeavor. The
students signified their delight by continued applause and hearty wishes for
an early reappearance of the orchestra.

John Brookfield, one of the university’s best tenors gave so pleasing a
rendition of ‘“‘The Floral Dance”’ that
he was forced to return to the call of
the students. ‘“‘The Floral Dance,”’
has a delightful legend wound round it.
Once upon a time, when the earth was
full of ravishing dragons, ravishing
maids and rescuing knights, the good
people of ‘‘a quaint old Cornish town”’
were panic stricken by the appearance
of a huge fire breathing dragon which
appeared from the sea and soared menacingly over the small settlement,
threatening destruction to the inhabitants.

The wizard of the town after trying
all his machinations in vain, ordered
the town folk to dance, to dance about
the town, on the streets, in and out of
the houses and around the public places.
For three nights and three days the
people danced and sang without ceasing.
The huge monster advanced and retreated only to advance upon the town
once more. Each time he returned he
showed evidences of greater anger.
Finally on the third day, as evening was
approaching, his anger could not be
contained within him and, with a mighty
roar, he burst into flames and fell into
the sea.

Since the day of that terrible episode
the towns people celebrate the anniversary of their deliverance with feasting
and dancing. All houses are thrown
open and the couples dance in and out
of the buildings, eating and drinking
as they go from the lavish provisions
laid out. ‘‘The Floral Dance,” as sung
by Mr. Brookfield ably portrayed the
festival scenes.

T. C. Sedgwick and Charlie Allen
as Jim and Bill, two ex-burglars, ‘‘ex”
because they had been violently removed the haunts of men, the former,
via the hempen-noose and falling trap,
and the latter by the pistol-shot route,
took the audience on an excursion to
another world. Jim, despite the fact
that he concurred with the opinion,
‘‘Abandon hope all ye who enter here,”’
never gave up hope of finding a ‘‘wee
drop” to slake his consuming thirst
from the beer bottles raining down from
heaven. The plot was subtle, novel
and surprising and kept the assembly
in a state of unreality throughout.

“Brothers in Arms,” a one-act play
had for its background North Ontario
life. Major Altrus Brown (William
Hampton), a specimen of army efficiency and accuracy, with his charming,
interested and voluble bride Dorothea
(Kay Hagen), became stranded in a
one-house settlement. The major becomes involved in a lengthy tirade with
the phlegmatic Syd, a product of the
back woods, whose ideas of army regulations are not according to military
code. After a lengthy argument it
dawns upon the audience that the
major’s army-acquired efficiency is not
nearly so useful in everyday life as the

major would wish one to believe. Jack
Whalen as Charlie, co-partner of Syd
and rabid huntsman played his part
well.

Harvey Hebb, in a number of wellexecuted piano solos won the hearty
applause of the audience.

The whole performance was excellent
and reflects credit on the president of
Glee Club, Graham Allen, who was
untiring in his efforts to make the concert a success. Forrest Musgrave who
directed ‘“‘Brothers in Arms” also deserves a great deal of credit.

; ae following is the programme in
ull:—

1. Glee Club Symphony
a. Tannahuser Selection Wagner
(Arr. by Seredy)

b. Campus Memories. .(Arr. by Seredy)
c. Blue Danube Waltz.....Strauss

(Arr. by Seredy)
Solo, The Floral Dance = ‘
John Brookfield, accompanied by
Harvey Hebb
3. The Glittering Gate. .by Lord Dunsany

Z.

Jim T. C. Sedgwick
Ex-burglars
Bill Charles Allen

Scene—The Lonely Place
4. Brothers in Arms..Merrill Dennison

_Syd George Whitely
Major Altrus Brown Wm. Hampton
Dorothea K. Hagen

 

Charlie Jack Whalen
Scene A hut in the woods of Northern
Ontario. Time—The Present.

5. Piano Solo, Country Gardens .Grainger
Harvey Hebb
6. Glee Club Symphony
a. Andante from Haydn's Surprise
Symphony, (Arr. by Theo. Moses)

b. Tell Selection. . Rossini.
(Arr. by Seredy-Tocaben)
c. Highland Laddies. .(Arr. by Seredy)
Including: PART ONE: Blue Bells of
Scotland, Bonnie Sweet Bessie, Charlie
is My Darling, Loch Lomond, Annie
Laurie, Within a Mile of Edinburgh
Town, The Campbells are Coming.

William

PART TWO: Coming Through the Rye,
Highland Fling, Robin Adair, Bonnie
Dundee, Flow Gently Sweet Afton,
Highland Laddie, Auld Lang Syne.

Personnel of the Glee Club Sym
ue phony.

Director, S. S. Singer, (with the assistance of Professors E. Gordon Young
and Horace E. Read)

Concert Pianist, Peter J. Dowd

Concert Mistresses, Jean Fraser, Arts
'30, Claire Murphy, Arts ’29.

First Violins, Gilbert Holland, Arts '30,
Gertrude Phinney, Edward Murray
Arts ’31, Adam C. Bell, Arts '30. ;

Second Violins, K. S. Ritchie, Eng. '29,
Isabelle Morris, Arts '28, Virginia
Irwin, Arts ‘30, Ella DesBrisay,
Arts 31, J. C. Douglas '29. ;

Viola, Prof. E. Gordon Young

Clarinet, F. C. MacLellan, Arts ’29

Trumpets, Donald M. Murray, Prof.
H. E. Read.

Saxaphone, Harold Guest

Drums, W. Gordon Dustan

 

Grand Piano for Symphony, through
kindness of Phinneys Lts. 4 4 @
Scenery in “‘The Glittering Gate’’ by
Messrs. Allen and Donahoe.

 

For M edical Society 1 Tuesday

The Dalhousie Students
Society held their annual banquet on
Tuesday Feb. 21 at the Queen Hotel.
President John R. McCleave presided.
The toasts of the evening were: The
King; The Faculty proposed by Gordon
Winfield, and replied to by Dr. John
Cameron. The profession, _ proposed
by John W. Merritt and replied to by
Dr. Kenneth MacKenzie; The Ladies
proposed by Arthur L. Murphy and
replied to by Dr. E. Gordon Young.
The speakers of the evening were Dr.
H. B. Atlee, Head of the Dept of Obstetries and Gynaecology, Dr. Boris Balkkin, Head of the Dept. of Physiology,
and Dr. Ralph Smith, Head of the
Dept. of Pathology. a

Music was provided by 5S. S. Singer
and his orchestra. The audience was
further entertained by a  slap-stick
juartet composed of Messrs. Giddings
leanings: Ross and Murphy; a reading,

Medical | “‘An Englishman's philosophy of life, by

Fred C. Jennings and a piano solo by
Peter Dowd. The Society regrets the
coming loss of Dr. Boris Babkin who is
leaving at the end of the term to take
up a post in McGill University. Dr.
Babkin is one of the best lecturers in
Dalhousie Medical School, known throughout the world as a physiologist and
has shown himself to be at all times
a scholar and a gentleman. He leaves
with the best wishes of all for his future
happiness and success.

_ Congratulations are due to S. S.
Singer and his orchestra who provided
such wonderful music and to the banquet committee composed of Messrs.
Soper, MacKenzie and Jennings for
the very capable manner in which they
made the banquet a success. All present voted it the best banquet ever attended at Dalhousie.

fy. S. 'G,
 
 
 
 
   

  
  

f. a

 

   

oO
ra
7 |

1

FRED C. JENNINGS .

MARGARET ELLS

Reporters
P. O. HEBB ©

R. A, DONAHUE.

C.R.K. ALLEN

Circulation Manager
S. W. ARCHIBALD

  

  
 
  

 
 

  
 
 
 

 
 

| casually for

— & Tribute

A glowing tribute to the memory of
the late George S. Campbell was rereived recently from Dr. W. B. Moore
who attended Dalhousie from 1874 to
1879. Dr. Moore is at present in

 

 
     
     
 

, a, Roshan e Editor Sport Editor Bournemouth, England. The letter of
3 ALLEN KATHERINE HANIFEN J. W. WHALEN | tribute is as follows:—
a ociate Editor 7 The Editor
ror AS cue The Dalhousie Gazette.
meee = W. GORDON DUSTAN

 
 

Sir:—A copy of your memorial issue

of Noy. 25, just received from an Edin
burgh friend gives me the sad news of
the death of Mr. George S. Campbell.
Please add my humble tribute to his
memory, to those so splendidly expressed
in. your journal. Meeting him only
ears but knowing something of his life history, I was deeply
impressed with the fineness of his qual
 
   
 

 
     

i J Business Manace? ity, and he gained my ‘deepest admirae RALPH S. MORTON ation and respect. Combining as he
#2 52 Quinpool Rd. did, racial qualities of highly developed

Phone Sac. 304
Subscription Rate. $1.00 per year

The Ten Dollar Fee —

 

ga

bg 8 |
~~ Since the last meeting of the Council of Students there has
been much discussion concerning the proposed increase in the Council fee which was discussed at that meeting. Only two students
have seen fit to place their thoughts on paper and submit them for
- publication but others have been by no means backward in broadcasting via the air. The members of the Council, knowing that
the matter of an increase of the Council fee would meet with a great
| ~=— deal of criticism have deferred decision on the subject until an opinjon of the students could be obtained.
At present the Students’ Council fee is fixed at seven dollars,
pavably by each student along with other charges at registration.

  
   
  

   
   

 
 

brains, business ability, mental and
hysical strength, energy, and efficiency, with delightful qualities of kindliness, ueeny generosity, gracious
courtesy and culture of a fine christian
gentleman, the rare and well balanced
completeness of his personality, seemed
to exemplify the possibility, too seldom
shown, of the evolutionary production
of an outstanding individual far superior
to the average standard of the period.
As I understand greatness, he was a
truly great man, and in fully honouring
his memory, all connected with Dalhousie University in the past, present,
and future, will not only honour the

    
     
   

 
   

the quality of its training and influence
but will lead generations to come both
to revere his memory and all of
the splendid virtues he possessed.

DR. W. B. MOORE,

 
   
       
   
   

This fee entitles the student to the privileges of any or all of the 1874-79.
following organizations: D.A.A.C., Dalhousie Skating Club, Delta
Gamma Society, Dalhousie Glee and Dramatic Club, Sodales, and Impressio ns

to a copy of the Gazette.

It would seem from the above that the charge of one dollar
was made for each university activity, the male students subscribing
for Delta Gamma as well as the female students, but a perusal of the
constutution of the Council of Students (1918 edition) shows that
Article 8, Section 2 of

other activities are supported by the fee.

c "7 the Constitution reads:—

 
 
 

 

Cool and refreshing this Gym is—ah!
the music master... .shssh...,.A hushed
atmosphere awaits the downward swing of
the magic wand....melting strains of
Tannhauser. . ..sweet-pitched violins... .
a deep-throated viola....the mellow saxaphones....

 
   
       
   

a - aoe bound ee ...what ho!
be ia te P, . audience spell bound......
eto The amount so collected shall be apportioned as Cotes. tase |” Waatofad backer ones

 

   
  
  
   

   
 

   
   
 

 

 

_
+

  
 

:

i}
; !
a

|

      
 

epee
expenses for which no table can be drawn up in advance.

i

the incoming Council sees fit for the encouragement and
support of the various college organizations, but so as to
entitle every student upon complying with the conditions
of membership of each society or organization (other
than those intended exclusively for students of one faculty
or class) to be a member of such society or organization,
and to one year’s issue of the Dalhousie Gazette, and for
- greater certainty but not so as to restrict the generality
of the fore-going terms of this section, it is hereby declared
that the following societies, organizations and activities
are included under the terms of this section:—-The Council
of the Students, The Dalhousie A. A. C., Thé Dalhousie ~

---~—~—s Reading this section one sees that provision is made for the
oper’ a :

payment of extraordinary expenses that arise from time to time,

Any one
who has been associated with the financial workings of an organ
ization of any kind will realize that these expenses are many.

Roughly, there are about eight hundred students at Dalhousie

_ paying the Council fee of seven dollars, making a total of five thousand six hundred dollars.

( During the past number of years this
sum of money has been found inadequate for the successful carrying

   

.... black and gold... . white and black. .
. evening gowns of every hue and shade. . .

And soft music, ever rising, ever failing
.... perfect rhythm....pleasing to the
ear.

Again the creaky curtain parts....
appears John Brookfield... .melodious
notes soon fill the air.... a charming
voice.... ‘The Floral Dance,” a pretty
song....but why not sing in our own
tongue....

Sound of hammers... .the sketch is
on... what's this ....what's « all
about... .rustling of programmes... .oh!
The “Glitiering Gate’’.... and Graham

 
       
   
     
     
    
  
 
  
 
  
   

And now the play of the evening....
....@ tempestuous orchestration by the
major a soothing motif by the
placid : native... .withal a pleasing performance....‘' Now, tf he had a boat’...

» ~—~--—s Skating Club, Dalhousie Y. W. C. A., Delta Gamma, | oh! Graham, how could you commit this
hb ~~ Dalhousie Dramatic Club, Dalhousie Girls’ Athletic Club, <> .).. <2 what's this you'say/”... a'farce?. ....
)  ~——s Sodales, and the Dalhousie Gazette. oo CPC, ..,. well why not title tt appropriately. . .
| a ut . i “* How to beat jail with an egg-beater"’

eee ee

 
 
   

Once again ihe music... .ah! yes....
that wistful melody.... ‘“‘The Blue Danube Waltz’’.... and now the stirring
“William Tell’.... excitement runs
high in the crescendo.... whole-hearted,
spontaneous applause.... murmurs of

          

% ____ DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

BURGLARS

 

All the house was quiet. John and
Peg had been in bed for hours. The
clock on the mantle struck two, thus
breaking the silence. Peg stirred restlessly and then sat up, wide awake.
She could hear voices down stairs!

“‘Are youse sure this is the house?”
queried a hoarse voice.

‘““As sure as your name's Mike Malone,” replied another, equally as hoarse.
“Don’t youse see the safe over yonder?”’

Peg’s heart leaped into her mouth,
for she recalled the fact that in that
safe were her diamond ring, her new
pearl necklace, and that brooch ¥of
grandmother's, which must be worth
at least three hundred dollars. 4%»

“I've opened safes like this here one
before. This here kind is easy,
“continued the hoarse voice downstairs.

Peg sat up, and, reaching over, shook
John. John stirred a little and turned
over,

‘Whadya want?” he asked ‘sleepily’
“John!”’ exclaimed Peg. ‘‘Get up. ¢!
hear voices downstairs.” oO

Every hair on John’s head immediately leaped on end as he pulledgthe
clothes up to his chin.

“You must be dreaming, dear,”
said with a shaking voice.

w At%this moment the voices downstairs
could be heard again.

“Phew! what a haul!” said one.
“This here thing alone must be worth
three hundred dollars.”

“Grandmother's brooch,”

he

Peg ex
university and themselves by showing | claimed tearfully.

# At this she jumped out of bed and
tremblingly reached for the poker.
John's¥courage was somewhat stronger
by now and he also got out of bed.
Taking a flashlight in one hand and a
revolver in the other he started for the
stairs. At the door of the bedroom he
turned:

“If I don’t come back alive,” he said
brokenly, ‘‘remember that I died for
you, dearest.”’

This was more than Peg could stand.
“Oh, John,”’ she exclaimed, “I'm going
with you.”’

They started down the stairs, John
leading the way, with his flashlight and
revolver, and Peg following with the
poker. The voices in the living room
could still be heard.

‘We'll divide the pearls later on,
Mike,” said one hoarse voice.

John and Peg reached the living room
door: John reached for the switch and
turned on the light. At the same time
his voice rang out, ‘Hands up!”

At this moment a voice in the living
room said:—‘‘You have just listened
to the greatest criminal play of the
season, ‘one-eyed Mike Malone.’ This
concludes our programme for tonight:
Station X Y Z signing off. (Good
night, friends."’

“John,” exclaimed Peg, breaking into
tears. “‘If you don’t remember to
turn that radio off next time, I’m going
home to mother.”

Beso ne

 

~ High Explosives

When I sit down in Chemistry
And look about me there, and see
The puzzled but determined look
Bent by each student on his book,
I think in great perplexity

What can the reason of it be?

 

Why shculd these young and hopeful
swains

Be forced to search their fevered brains,

And with impatience duly sweat

Over a simple problem set

To find a nearly perfect rule

How to divide a molecule?

war | Or, if the mighty powers that be

Had asked me in philanthrophy

Truly a song that strikes home. ..home.| Which student here in Chemistry

 

out of the activities of the university. The budgets submitted by | high compliments and hush!.... the
___ the heads of the different clubs and activities have of necessity been j cheery, buzz dies down... . the last selectwe given drastic cuts with the result that these organizations are unable eat ps a 2 apes tees pes
ot: to function with true efficiency due to the lack of funds. Each | fiytes.”” merry tunias. aE sa
~~: Organization must scrape, cut, squeeze and cut again in order to | whoops.... Cape Bretoner’s yells.....
iy make its activities conform to its financial welfare. Of course,
economy is a good thing and a lavish expenditure is the opposite eg ae
_ but student of economics will tell you that there is such a thing as oe ay
i false ae where the “cutting and squeezing’’ mars “ effic- —_—_—_—_—__—.-- -_—.
i iency of the organization. An application of ‘“The Law of Dim- “ °
ee Sahin Rete might be Selec here. Impertinent Par od 1eS
. The proposed raise in the fee would give a total of some eight
i; thousand dollars, which would be applicable for the support of B 5 oat
a aa ; : ‘ eneath the bright electric light,
___ student activities. This amount, placing a slightly added burden A haransed Houire vita:
upon each individual student would raise the efficiency of the act- Ye Ed., a patient man is he,
__ ivities extant at Dalhousie and would add much to the student life Who toils and never quits.
- about the university. He reads the contributions o’er,
The question of the increased fee is worthy of consideration. oe Sreene a Wet tees.
Many colleges much smaller than Dalhousie have an athletic fee The fellows as they start for rink,
of five dollars along with fees for other activities. Undoubtedly Look in the office door;
_. there are many students who have arguments against the increased ane, 3 Sle povnsa = beast within
fee. An excellent manner of bringing out student opinion on the But he’s & tee ated avai
subject would be to have a debate on the question under the As I have said before.
direction of Sodales. Doubtless the meeting would be well attend- PoP NAS i
___ ed and the speakers from the floor would be numerous. He goes to classes with his friends,
oe oe ment pee te he
fag wails, *
fe The Glee Club Orchestra ep eee,
“ad “— But the heartless brutes stare
ads The striking success of the Glee Club Orchestra which per- wearily,

formed at a recent concert in the gymnasium has been a topic of

conversation about the university during the past week. All are

in agreement that the performance was one of the best in years and,

ie

considering that this was the first appearance of the group during

__ the present college year, the outlook is exceedingly promising.
Much of the credit for the success of the orchestra is due to the
work of the conductor, Sina S. Singer, who worked unfailingly to

A

a

4 =
er >

;
a
i


5

ay. __ bring his followers to a point of efficient and harmonious playing.
___-Mr. Singer has had a great deal of experience in musical directing,
having coached and conducted the band, the Glee Club and the
_ orchestra at New York University.

Evidence of this experience

was brought out by the excellent concert work of the Dalhousie

And turn aside to laugh.

Or molecule of T. N. T.
I'd rather be my answer would
Have come as quickly as it could.

Why should one choose to be as slow
As man, twelve miles an hour or so

His limit, when by simple word

One may become as flashing sword

A fleeting moment here—and there
And quick as lightning through the air?

And life, for bits of T. N. T.

Is full of opportunity.

My fondest hope would be fulfilled
If I could go, when I was spilled
With transit swift from earth to sky
And dodge the professorial eye.

This is the course that I should try
Or student or explosive high:
The molecule of T. N. T.
Would hastily accepted be
Except for one thing: bad or worse,
I could not then write halting verse.
Toiling,—devising,—sorrowing,—
Onward through life he goes,
Each week-end sees an issue out,
But how, Lord only knows.
Something attempted, nothing done,
He slumps into repose.
—Geedee.

 

 

 

Dr. Babkin

Rumour was cemented into actual knowledge at the Dalhousie
Medical Society Banquet last Tuesday evening, when it was announced that Professor Boris Babkin, head of the Department of
Physiology, had planned to take up his work at McGill University

next autumn.

Every one interested in medical studies at Dalhousie

— —— SS —

had hope that it was only a rumour but now that we know it for a
fact we can only accept the situation and wish Dr. Babkin every

Just Among Us Girls

‘Well, my dear I’m SIMply_ hysTERical because to-night I'm going to
the JUNior Senior and my DEAR wait
til I TELL you! Did you HEAR about
that DUMB little Freshette on the
FIRST floor, oh it was TOO FUNny
for WORDS! Her idea of a BIG time
is the PINE Hill AT HOME! Imagine
THAT and so LAST FRIDAY she got
DRESsed up FIT to KILL but if it
hadn't been for JESSIE’S evening
dress and Phil’s fur coat and MARY’S
beads and MARJORIE’S hat and MY
zippers she would have looked about as
VACANT as that FACE of hers. Now
I HATE to TALK behind her back but
REALLY she’s SO dumb SHE thinks
EARNEST Howse is the DALhousie
MEN’S RESidence—I MEAN sheHONestly does and SHE has about as KEEN
a sense of HUMOUR as PROfessor
McKAY, I happen to KNOW BEcause
the other DAY she asked ME who this
STAN person was evervbody talked
ABOUT and my DEAR, she ACTually
wanted to KNOW if SHE could take
HIM to DELTA GAMma! Just FANCY! I'd tell you MORE about HER
only I wouldn't LIKE to APpear CATty and BEsides it would make a STORY
about as long as PROF. COPP’S nose
and as DRY as his LECtures, you
KNow what I MEAN dear and THEN
I'd MUCH sooner TALK about MUSchamp, he’s so big and fine and HANDsome with that GENuine ALPINE
look and would you BElieve it my
DEAR but I heard from a RELIable
SOURCE that the REason he’s been
giving SO much PUBlicity to the JEWish RACE lately is BEcause he intends
teaching a CLASS in YIDDISH next
year. Wouldn't that NAUSEate you?
I MEAN isn't it KILling? And speaking of MUSchamp you JUST know
how I hate SWISS cheese and I go
out every TIME we have IT or STEW
or FISH for dinner. But wait til |
TELL you the LATest, it ABsolutely
drove me to TEARS when I HEARD
it—they CALL BETTY ConDON ‘the
CAMpus WInDOW because you can
SEE right THROUGH her.’ REally
[ think that’s just the SCREAMingly
FUNiest story I EVer heard, I mean I
HONestly DO!”

“Big” Bill Thompson

Chicago’s brilliant executive, Mayor
Thompson, not content with winning
his office by a. campaign which consisted almost entirely of thumbing his
nose at the Union Jack, is now engaged
in proving that the gesture was sincere. He has commissioned U. J.
((Sport) Hermann to ferret out all proBritish literature in the Chicago Publie Library. Somehow the idea got out
that these: ‘‘un-American” books were
to be burnt. It is a long time since seditious books were ordered burned by
the common hangman. Anyhow Mr.
Thompson has changed his mind, temporarily at least, about burning the
pernicious volumes.

We are not sure whether Mr. Thompson«is cleverly appealing to a deepseated anti-British prejudice which he
discovered in his constituents, or whether he is merely ignorant. In either
case he is dangerous, for whatever his
motive, his actions are sure to be taken
seriously by some Britons already
jealous of this country’s commercial
supremacy. He is feeding any feeling
‘of,.mistrust .that may already exist
between the two nations.

If ignorance of England and_ her
affairs is at the bottom of Mr. Thompson’s mis-directed patriotism we hope
he will find time to accept the invitation. of the Manchester business man
who has invited Chicago's militant
mayor to spend a week as his guest in
Chesshire. Ignorance breeds contempt
more often than familiarity.

—Cornell Daily Sun.
——— es
Charlie Beckwith Med. '27 has been
ill for some time but Dalhousians will
be glad to hear that he is now much

better.

 

 

 

Like a young pear tree
On the young grass,
You shower petals
On all who pass.
How shall I tell you,
(Who could not guess)
How life will strip you
Of loveliness.
—Geedee

 

STRINGED INSTRUMENTS
of every description

VIOLINS
GUITARS

BANJO UKES
BANJO MANDOLINS
UKULELES
MANDOLINS

BANJOS

TIPLES,

| All these and marty others may
Department.

as

Write us regarding any in which you may be interested.

Orchestra. His conducting showed finish

evinced intelligent knowledge of his work.
_ With adequate stage space and an auditorium with acoustics
that would bring out the quality of the selections the results of the
> Ss orchestra would be greatly enhanced. As it is, the results of the

A ey es,

ae success when he takes up his new

and his interpretation

a ba. +.
oe

orchestra were very gratifying and we are hoping for another per
 

Dr. Babkin has been at Dalhousie University for four years |
and during that time he has shown himself to be an excellent professor and a learned and experienced research worker.
shown himself to be extremely interested in the education and welfare
of the students.and all will miss him greatly.
McGill is making no mistake in acquiring Dr. Babkin’s services,

position.

He has i
We feel sure that

ee ee ee
February 24th, 1928

       

LITTLE COLLEGE]

Hugh M. Huggins, Law ’27 is practicing with the firm of Fetherstonhaugh
and Co. Patent Attorneys in Ottawa.

*

Delta Gamma is exercising the woman's privilege in the production of their
show for Glee Club. First it was the
Mikado, now a Revue, next? But
whatever it is, we venture to predict it
will be one of the season's best.

Last week Dr. MacMechan’s ‘‘Ultima
Thule’ was reviewed in the McGill
Daily. The reviewer—formerly of Dalhousie—was G. V. V. N

* * *

The Year Book has gone to press.
Don't be among the disappointed on
April 15th. There is an officer of each
class in charge of the subscription list
so make a point to see him, the list
will be kept open for only a few days
longer.

*x* * *

The teachers in the public schools
have reported a marked difference in
the pupils since the experimental
teaching of Education 2.

*x* * *

The students of Dalhousie, through the Gazette wish to express their
sympathy with Doris and Winifred
Henley on the death of their father.

 

Professor Angus L. MacDonald has
been appointed Research Fellow at the
Harvard Law School for 1928—1929.
This is both an honor for Prof. MacDonald and for the University.

This appointment is one of the first
made under the new research foundation in Crimiral Law established under
the Graduate Department of the Harvard Law School.

Professor MacDonald is well suited
for this Fellowship having been in the
Attorney General's Department for a
number of years. He has to his credit
many brilliant prosecutions.

Prof. MacDonald is an able lecturer
and has an excellent capacity for detecting subtle legal distinctions. The Faculty and Student Body of the Law
School feel that he is qualified for the
position. The Gazette on behalf of
the University extends to Prof. MacDonald heartiest congratulations.

 

MIDLOTHIAN MEETING

 

A meeting of the Midlothian Society
was held on Monday evening, in the
library of Shirreff Hall. Dr. MacMechan spoke on the sea-poetry of Kipling
and in the reading of many of the writers
foremost poems explained why Kipling
is considered the greatest English poet
of the sea. He contrasted Kipling and
Byron, showing that Byron wrote of the
ocean placing his own interpretation
before his readers, while Kipling understood the sea, as few men have understood it, and so could write of the sea
as it is. The readings were very much
enjoyed and appreciated and at the
close of the evening a vote of thanks*
was extended to Dr. MacMechan. .

a eee eee eee ta

The Glee Club Symphony
Orchestra will hold a_ special
rehearsal on Saturday at 2.30 p.m.
in the Munro Room in prepar
||ation for the celebration of Founder’s Day and for the welcome
of Hon. R. B. Bennett. All
members of the orchestra are
asked to be on hand so that the
practices may be a success.

 

Spring

Spring is a vagabond, wanderer,
A gypsy of moor and sea,
In his voice the heart and throbbing
Of the wind’s old minstrelsy;
In his eyes the mist of mountains,
Touched with a glint of sun;
In his heart the dream of the restless;
Whose journey is never done.

Spring is an hour, a breathing,

A star in the dimming sky;

A morning watch, and the spirit,
Of the things that soon pass by;

I sail on the glinting billows,
That comes with the day, but soon,
Passes and sails unheeded
Where the lonely out-tides croon.

—F.' M. B.

 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
   

ETC.

     

be found in our Small Instrument

    

 
 
  
 
 
   
  
   
   

 

Wh

T
ws

  
   
 

 

?,

  

Bec 34 Morris st.
| y Young St.
,

be given the choice of an athletic game
or some
fea danger that sity
; : ities might require the drill for everyPs ody | —t Fe

         
   
  
 

  

: —_ % + }
aS pf 
4

_ every

at the

| HEADQUARTERS
SPORTING GOODS

MacDonald Hardware Co

 

| Envelopes to match.

A Complete Book—Stationery |

| ; -MacLEOD, BALCOM

  

t t have not been made
ossibly they have been taken
_ but I think it better to

irst ‘that the students be given a

ice of time so that they can
nge for the most convenient pertothem. Second, that the students

  

ie

some sort or physicalgdrill. There
er that the university author
  

 

ze (Advi.

Readers of the Dalhousie Gazette

. reminded that Valeteria is a spect

-ocess of shaping and pressing clothes

by machines. There is aay one ae

‘advertising this service in the Gazette
* ‘Limited, Barrington St.

 

 

| Beauty Shoppe

The largest and best equipBeauty Parlors east of
. Piontrent usd only then outdone in size! All our operators
‘are graduates — experts — In
hase of Beauty Culture,
and all equipment is modern
to the smallest detail.

Your patronage is solicited,
and we warrant complete satisfaction from a manicuregto
a permanent Wave. cyst. swt

- Phone S. 3830 for appointment

pee 4

The WOOD BROS Co.,

Limited

- SHOE!

College men and college

women have shoe styles all

- their own—we find English
lasts great favourites with
ff college men.
ff these in

| ENGLISH MADE SHOES

- Also best Canadian makes

We have

as *“‘Astoria”’ Brand.

—_—_—

| ‘ Both men and women students will find our Spring
Garden Road Branch a

great convenience, or call
he Main. Store —555-559

Tuttle

“45°

:

FOR EVERYTHING
IN

AT POPULAR PRICES

SPRING GARDEN RD.

 
 
    
   
 

PHARMACY
NEAR THE COLLEGE

» SPECIAL
HIP FLASKS

   
   
   
         
       
  
 
  
  
   
  
       
     

Dalhousie
Crested

Stationery |
Linen or Kid Finished |

      
     
     
    

   

    
   
      
   
 

FARRELL’S

391 Barrington St.

     

     

and Gift Shop Service

     
  
   
   
   
    

—DRUGGISTS—

      
 

  

5 STORES — .
174 Spr. Garden Rd,
__139 Agricola St.
Cor. Quinpool Rd, and Oxford St.
HALIFAX, N.S.

    

»
-'

  
     

   

    
 
    

  
  

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE __

| The Naiad, The Novelist and The

Remertea

 

George Churchill was happy. He
realized for the first time in weeks what
a great world it was after all. The sun
was shining brightly, he had nothing to
worry about, and, after weeks of writing
and re-writing, mailing and re-mailing,
he had received a cheque for one of his
stories. True it was not a large cheque,
but George felt, in the words of the
advertiser, ‘‘What a whale of a difference a few cents make.’”’ He now had
his foot on the bottom rung of the ladder.
The acceptance of this story had given
him, new courage and he even regarded
his land-lady in a half-kindly light.
He hummed blithely as he made his way
along through the lunch-hour crowds.

A dog crossed in front of his feet.
“Aw get out of the viet al said George
good-naturedly. A little meek-looking
man in front of him turned around.

“I beg your pardon, sir,’’ he said and
stepped to one side. Too embarrassep
to apologize, George lowered his head
and plunged forward.

“Look out!’’ screamed a clear sop
-|rano voice behind him.

George stepped back onto the curb,
out of the way of a large truck that was
assing. Looking around to see who
had shouted, he observed a pretty girl
smiling at him. She was dressed in
white, trimmed with some black thin
gummzys and seemed, George thought, to
be there in thirty-seven different ways.

“Pardon me”, said George, ‘‘but to
whom am I indebted for this favour;
but for you that truck might now be a
heap of smouldering ruins.”

*“My name’s Betty Darlow, but please
don’t mention the favour, the truck
probably wasn’t worth much anyway.”

‘* ‘Darlow’? That’s a funny co-incidence; my room-mate at college was a
fellow by that name. ‘Mugs’ Darlow we
used to call him.”

“Did you go to Columbia?”

‘Ves ”

“Then you must be George Churchill.
I’ve heard Jack, or ‘Mugs’ as you call
him, speak of you often.”

‘Are you his sister?”

Ves.

‘Well, well, Bett—I mean Miss
Darlow, let’s walk along and talk over
old times. What's your brother doing
now.”

“He's working on the Transcript. In
the Editorial department.”

“Lucky devil! I’ve been playing the
role of the struggling young author
very successfully pael today when I
received a cheque, which was quite
encouraging.”

“Isn't that great. I write stories
too, but none of them are ever accepted
so I have to work as a stenographer to
keep the wolf away.”

Talking in this light vein, they strolled
along and when George left Betty at her
office they were chatting like old friends.
He learned that she was employed at
Locke and Grundy, Brokers. Did. she
know many people in the city? No,
she did not. Might he see her sometimés? Certainly he might. Soon?
Well, she was going away on her holidays the next week to Farmouth, but
she would be back in two weeks.

That settled it. George’s plan was
clear. Now that he had received his
cheque he could afford a holiday too.
He would book a room at the same
boarding-house at Farmouth and spend
two glorious weeks with Betty. Everything was, to quote that old American
folk-song, Hotsy Totsy Now. But he
had reckoned without Rollo Beach.

Nemertea are, so Chambers Encuclopaedia informs us, an important
class of worms. Most of them break
easily and even spontaneously. Rollo
Beach in George’s opinion was not far
removed from the nermertea. He was
certainly a worm, although his importance was doubtful, and surely no nemertea ever broke more easily nay even
spontaneously than friend Beach. He
was, in fact, incessantly broke. Nor
were these his only faults. When
broke he had no hesitation about touching George for a few dollars, and as

yeorge was one of that large weak willed
herd who cannot turn down a friend,—
yes, yes, dear reader, even as you and
I—he generally let him have some.
When George arrived at his boardinghouse for supper he found Rollo waiting
for him. Rollo had an_ insinuating
gleam in his eye.

“Hallo there, George, will you do me
a favour?”

‘“‘What is it?’”’ asked George with misgivings.

‘Well look here, could you let me have
seventy-five dollars?”’

“WHAT?”

“Seventy-five dollars.”

“Certainly not.”

‘Now listen, old man, I need the
money in the worst kind of a way; you've
got plenty since you got your cheque.”’

“But I have to <...”

“Oh don’t be so darn tight. Come
on, be a sport, shell out.”

Rollo got his money in the end, and
went on his way rejoicing. George,
however, was kicking himself for parting
with his hard-earned cash. Well, there
was only one thing for it. He had not
enough money now to go to Farmouth,
therefore he must stay home and write
some more stories and see Betty when
she came back. But stay, it was only
Friday; he had still three evenings and
Saturday and Sunday afternoons to see
Betty. With admirable promptness he
phoned her. Would she like to go to
a theatre? Why of course she would.
So they went. They also went out
together Saturday afternoon and evening. This was all very pleasant for
George but it made him realize that the
next two weeks would be very unpleasant. He and Betty went out again
Sunday afternoon, also Sunday evening.
When he met Betty in the evening she
had something to tell him:

“T wired to the boarding-house at
Farmouth to make sure of my rooms.
Here’s the ey

George took the telegram. It read:

MIXUP IN BOOKINGS STOP NO
ROOMS AVAILABLE STOP VERY
SORRY STOP. WILLETT.

“‘Hooray,"’ said George, ‘I mean that A
too bad.”

“Yes isn’t it. It’s too late to get
rooms anywhere now.”

So Betty Darlow didn’t go to the
country and she and George became
more chummy than ever. About three
weeks later Rollo dropping in to see
George found a young lady with him.

“Good evening, Rollo,” said George,
“meet my fiance, Miss Darlow.”’

“How do you do,” murmured Rollo,
goggling,”’ I wanted to see you about a
little matter, George.”

“Sure. How much do you want?”

RE as

“‘Here's fifty more, I had some more
stories accepted.”’

“Thanks but ....”

“Quite all right. Sorry you have to
go so soon. Good-bye. “It's awfully
good of you, George, but I just came
around to pay you the seventy-five I
owe you.”

But George didn’t hear him he was
too busy talking to Betty.

“You know”, said Betty, “‘you’re a
bit of a dear.”’

‘““Am |

“Yes, but you're not very observant.”

“No?”

“Why no. You didn’t even notice
that the telegram cancelling my holiday
was typed on a sending blank instead of
a receiving one. I did it myself at the
office.”

Night :

Night calls,
Her husky voice athrob |
Throughout the winds, and roses

 

sway
Like scarletflips that closing kiss
The paling cheek of day;
Twilight dreams on hills afar,
And wistful sunset steals away,
While roses droop o'er garden walls;
Night calls.

—$ 2 ———__—__—

THE WORM WILL TURN

 

I’m prone to love my fellow-kind, —
Few things can make me lose my, poise;
Though hard at work, I never mind §
If those about me make a noise.

I’m never hard to mollify,

A disposition sweet is mine;—

But curses, how I hate the guy

Who sent that comic valentine!

Even if for class I’m late,

Or run against a boxing glove;

Or worst of all, I get the gate, 4

My only thoughts are peace and love.
I give forgiveness at the rink, |

When tripped by speeders asinine ;—
But curses, how I hate the gink

Who sent that comic valentine!

I’m mild and gentle;—in a word,
I] have forbearance quite divine;—
But curses how I hate the bird 4
Who sent that_comic valentine!

—Geedee.

 

 

ae

PROLOGUE
(Out of the Chaos)

Only inspirations have no beginnings,
no middles and noends. They are formless, boundless; they seem to burst in
on our horizons in medias res; and that’s
just where they leave us.

Those of us who are of a prosaic
nature must stress and strain labouriously for an attractwe beginning; for
an intriguing middle; and for a dramatic end: to say nothing of the many
isolated ideas, few, and far between,
that have died of solitary confinement,
because no beginning, no middle, no
end, because no proper behicle could be
found in which to drive home these
ideas to the billions of human minds
anxiously praying for edification.

—BEGINNING —

(An idea is beginning to formulate.
Thistakesyou backto thedays when
Englishmen wore silk hose and gray
curls).

English history records that the
absolute monarch James I was the first
to proclaim the Divine Right. James I
proved himself an abnormally conceited
vain, egotistical boaster. The idea of
that man, king or no_king, trying to
bully sane sensible Englishmen into
believing that he was the representative
of Deity on earth. Such presumption!
It was the apex of conceit for all time.

Why Charles I became so enamoured
of this theory of 2bsolutisw—that like
many a lover—he lost his head over it.
Absolutism was his vehicle of expression:
he proclaimed to the world: This is
what I think of myself: I am the great

“T am"’.... He died young.

—MIDDLE—

The years go by, the scene shifts: a
college in Onomatapoeia. In the days
when Canadian girls wear breeches and
cut their hair shorter than men’s.

“T am’”’ was a short rotund little man.
He had red cheeks; further lighting was
supplied by two eyes that invariably
sparkled or twinkled; and when he
laughed at his own jokes he displayed
“no dull teeth’. (Pepsodent). Taken
in at a glance his outward appearance
was one of “‘natural loveliness.”’ (Palmolive).

Yet he was not destined to go far.
He was content both with himself and
his position. He was a college professor. After a number of years though
he began to see that his students had
achieved fame and fortune; while he
was still a college professor. He began to
realize that many of the students at
present under his care and tutorship,
actually possessed more imposing personalities than* his own. He _ could
foretell that they too would go far in
the world of affairs. This tended to
develop in ‘‘I am’ an inferiority complex. It would. The thought that
youngsters he was teaching would leave
foot-prints in the sands of time haunted
him continually: It was not so much
the thought that his students would get
ahead, but rather the fact that he was
being left in the background.

He began to cast about him for means
to compensate for his complex. To
aggravate matters he was of small
stature and gradually by a process of
sublimation he began to exaggerate the
values of the thoughts of his own mind.
He began seriously to consider that
upon his shoulders lay the burden of
revaluating the modern values of life.

Gradually his mind developed into a
number of water-tight receptacles for
everlasting first impressions. He _ pigeon-holed everybody and_ everything
on first acquaintance. The subject
of these pigeon-holed first impressions
could under no circumstances redeem
themselves: That was their tragedy, if
they had any dealings with “Il am.”’

It was also ‘‘] am’s” greater tragedy.
A mind of his calibre soon runs into a
rut; it labours blindly under the flagrant
misapprehension that Progress is an
Illusion. It is like the ostrich who
buries its head in the sands. However
there is this difference: The Ostrich
knows it can’t see and thinks others
can’t; I am thought he could see and
knew others couldn't. A mind of this
type becomes lamentably narrowed;
aye after a time it goes farther than

ABSOLUTELY

se

that: through a gradual process of limitation, it becomes so narrowed that it
openly defies all attempts at mind
development. In its absolutism it sees
only one point of view. And so it was
with “I am.”

“T am” became the incarnation of |]

self-confidence. His was the correct

view always.

those who held opinions contrary to his
own. He exulted in picking flaws and
fallacies in the reasonings of his students.
To ridicule their opinions was to him,
as Nectar to the Gods. So pregnant
became his mind with fancies as to his
own mental greatness that he did not
any longer deem it necessary to listen
carefully to what others had to say.
His attitude towards people had become:
you know absolutely nothing about it,
you fool. You are one of the common
herd. You talk absolute nonsense.
I am enlightened. Let me tell you.
I am absolutely sure of it.
felt himself the Mental Superman of the
age. He believed only in himself. He
worshipped only ‘‘I am.”’

He began to make his associates and} #

those under him have an uneasy feeling
when in his presence. Of course it is
nothing unusual to feel uneasy in the
presence of a certain type of people,
But “I.am" didn’t look lke this. type.
Indeed he looked congenial. He ‘looked
as though at any moment you could
expect him to come over, slap you on the
back and give you a word of cheer. He

reminded one of the little trick camera:

of child-hood days. It looks harmless
enough: like a real camera: press ‘the
button though and out springs a snake
to strike you in the face.

“IT am” could only have one influence:

on his students. After they learned
his ways, they tried their utmost to be
on their guard. They hesitated before
they ventured opinions. They had no
desire to be made sport of before their
fellow students. The students took
care to use proper terminology: they
hated to be tripped up on technicalities.
Wittingly or unwittingly then ‘I am’’
taught his students to be wary.

The students thought they could see
through “I am” and did not want to
give him the satisfaction of showing
how good he was: Their ideas and
opinions were stifled: their vehicles of
expression had been ridiculed by the
absolutism of one little man

THE END
( Now Gently Reader).

_ The years speed on. The professro
is still professing. Hundreds of men
have gone into the world, having realized through contact with methods,
they disapproved, having been taught
through contrast, that a person’s first
impression should only be the beginning
that the mind must remain open for a
gradual development through beginning
and middle—to the end.

ANTI-CLIMAX.

(Into the Cosmos).
_ Far beyond human ken, in those days
in which we are told that mountains
could talk, a strong, proud, haughty,
vain egotistical oak said to a little
lastic, pliable bush: 'Gwan you little
insignificant speck on the earth's crest:
Bow to me I am monarch of all I survey.
My brow labours in the clouds. I bow
to no storm. And you.... you shiver
and shake to the least breeze that wafts
a maiden’s hair to and fro on her fore
head. The bush said nothing.
Shortly after this one-sided-argument
a storm came up from the sea (or from

the William Tell overture)—the little |]

bush bent over; the huge oak laughed
at the storm; however in the hurricane
that followed the huge proud oak
was snapped in half.

It was not completely severed from the] |

trunk, forming a weird triangle with the
ground. It was awe—inspiring. The
proud oak lost it’s head. The pliable
plastic bush remained intact.

 

NEW!
‘*TheBook of Ultima Thule”’
BY

ARCHIBALD MacMECHAN
PRAISE OF NOVA SCOTIA

 

At every opportunity] ff
he would attempt to make an ass out of | §

‘OT am” i

—

ets

 

 

 

 

Tip Top Tailors

  

who says

  

FOOTWEAR
Swanky Oxfords

Styled for Young * Men,
correct in style—and easy
on Finances. A shoe you'll
be proud to wear.

New Shoes for the
College Girl

Shoes for street and all
sport wear and_ also
slippers appropriate for
the coming evening events.

—_—
Wallace Bros

427
Barrington St. Cor Sackville

 

—=

“Take My Advice”
Get into the latest style

TUXEDO

“THE NONCHALANT”’
ALL SILK LINED

$24.50

Robinson’s Clothes Ltd.

444 Barrington St.
Opp. Roy Building
“Walk Up Stairs and Save Ten”

NOTICE!
Students’ Discount
at
CONDONS|

Men’s Store

YELLOW CAB

LIMITED

SAC. 4444

Halifax’s Only Metered
Service

Special

Same Rates 24 Hours.
Two travel for same as one.
More than two, 20 cents extra,

THE SONG SHOP tt.
for ANYTHING in

MUSIC
22 Spring Garden Rd.

Halifax, eee Canada

Our High — Quality Standard |
makes our Low Price

Doubly Attractive

SUITS, OVERCOATS |
FULL DRESS and
TUXEDGB, at one

price

‘24

MADE-TO-MEASURE

    
    

 

    

THE STUDENTS’ TAILORS
TRAMWAY BUILDING
Barrington and Sackville Sts

   
   
    

 

REFLECTIONS OF: REX 7

-a party may bea bore —the lady of

one’s choice may be dancing with sriother

“at there’. still a morsel of satisfaction in
the dreariest festivities for the man

Me Fea ee

 

        
    

 

 

 

MODERN

| PRINTING
t

a
MODERATE
Cost

Granvill

PROGRAMMES
and other JOB PRINTING

receive our special attention

The ROYAL PRINT & LITHO Ltd.

As Usual

The best in Ice Creams, Confectionery and Meals, as well
as courtesy, efficent service and
attractive surroundings are to
be had at

The Green Lantern

HUBLEY’S

DRY CLEANING, DYING AND

PRESSING
VALET
4 Tickets - ~ - ” $2.00
Phone §$ 109

52 Sackville Street,

   

The Greatest Asset of a bus- |
iness 18 to give customers
what they want—when ff
they want tt. f
i
l

 

JOB AND SOCIETY PRINTING. |

always delivered when
promised at the

227-229 Hollis Street :
| Ove Block North of Post Office

BUTTONS ON
RENTS MENDED
HOLES DARNED

That’s the service you get
free when you send YOUR
Laundry to Ungar’s.

VALETERIA

A new pressing Service:
Your Suit or Overcoat
Steam Cleaned and Pressed, for 75c or 4 Tickets
for $2.00.

NECKTIES cleaned 10c.

UNGAR’S

Halifax, N.S.
Har. 127

DYEING
VALETERIA

Barrington St.,
Sack 428

LAUNDERING
CLEANING

 

 
  

  
 
  
   

a =| ~ ae he Z X
F ae wh oe Snes, Sy +.
emery eile a ele!
‘ * la i Any) , 4 = i f
ee Me Seen
ga Me i s Oe

   

         

    

 
  
  

  
 
 

 
 

rs od fr
Ute Wa sia ee”

   
 

 

—————

, With Scissors and Paste Pot ~

    

Paes F
r+) Ba -
 
 

 

Ad

| Maritime Debaters. interesting scenes at Amadiuah Bay,
\Easterners Take Broatler and More|Fox Bay, and the winter quarters of
Philosophical Viewpoint | Sir William MacKenzie, when — that
; Tu noted Canadian statesman was on his
| Showing a greater mastery of their famous expedition to Baffin Land and
stibject and taking a more philosophical | Hudson Bay. re
and general viewpoint of it, the Maritime —McGill Daily.
All Star Debating team won the decision | philanthropic
of the judges in the debate, “Resolved| — University of California has received
that sport is carried to excess In Can-]a gift of $1,500,090 for establishment
adian Universities,’ held in Convoc-}of a foundation to foster the state's
ation Hall on Friday evening. It may] agricultural development, from A. P.
be noted that this was the fourth time] Giannini, founder of the Bank of Italy.
the Maritimers had debated on the same] The donnor, once a farmer-immigrant,
subject on their across-Canada tour, | save to the University his five per cent
having won decisions at McGill and} of the earnings of the Bancitaly coBishop's College and having lost to the] operation, which he refused to accept.
University of Montreal, and they were] Giannini said that he has no desire to
thus well prepared to refute the argu-|become a millionaire, and decided to
ments of the Queen’s team. devote his money to the state's greatest

 

  
 
  
  
 
 
 
   
   
 
   
   
  
   
 
 
  
   
   
 
 
 
 
  
    
   
  
  
   
   
    
  
   
  
 
 
   
 
    
      

 
 

     

    
   

    
   
    
   

ae , CITY : : The marked im ovement displayed
“HOCKEY | by the Dal Senior Hockey team in their

 

 

-|last few games has been a source of |
eas | satisfaction to Coach Butler, who has
n and white|{ spent much time getting the Tigers in
rv's Colle: ieapk for their various games. Last
Thursday night the Tigers lost out to
oO ht | Kings oa ceone Te eee
defeated the Dal Tigers.| day night the league leading St. Mary s
minutes me time at tha College squad had to go into overtime
n. The Saints went thro- before they could win out and Monday
e without adefeat. . _—s| night the Tigers lost out to U. N. B.
ndav ni’ 1—0. This latter game might easily
have been won if the team had got

    
   
   
 
     
    

      
   
       
     
   
 

   
    
    
   
    
   

game Monday night between the
marians and the Tigers was easily

    
    
    
   
      

     

  
   
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
   
  

    
   
 

most exciting and best. { the| anything like support from the student
~ feavue Pee on Bek out cowel by | body. In all, there were about ten rl Queen's Journal. asset, its agriculture. eee
4th e victors the Dal boys put upa showing | and seven boys in attendance. Needless cg & Dokatars ; —New Student.
- which should have ‘merited them a| to say the U. N. B. team were surprised. rete So eatrannésent’ St Get Your Man.
ee ag ; It’s not hard to imagine what they think e team which 1s to represent -'-| Northwestern men students and alum
   

victory over the Saints. At any rate
the winners had to extend themselves
Esl to the limit :
pees Lett noriin was fast, for an open-| tory but not before the Tigers had given
er. and the Saints showed little of the|the league leaders a hard game ee
‘play which won their last tilt with Dal} This is the second time thee he. Tigers
‘Bay. The constant back checking of | have all but defeated the Y five. The
the Dal forwards and the steady, work | second team also lost their game, Te
theta defence kent the Dal ci ear | Wanderers winning by one lone basket.

of the defense kept the Dal citadel clear The Tech squad had an easy time with

F. X. in the intercollegiate debate
with U.N.B. has been announced by
Dr. McPherson. Those selected are
J. Clyde Nunn '28, Tom E. Nugent '28
and T. Sullivan '29. The debate is to
take place in Fredericton on or about
the twenty-ninth of February.
—Xaverian.

ni have enthusiastically climbed onto the
band-wagon and are campaigning vociferously for more men students. President Walter Dill Scott also climbed on,
stopping only long enough to say that
before the freshman round-up is attempted, quality be given some consideration. President Scott, as well vy the
alumni and students, is in favor of stemModern Difficulties. . | ming the feminine invasion and equalao AE et pet enartic on bas izing the student population according
EeeD ; “|to sex. It will be necessary to get many
a cag gtd ees more entering men, and Northwestern
by elevators; so instead of labelling the Sei e egies eae Student

floors as 1, 2, 3, etc., they will probably , aan
label them History, Surveying, Economics and Medicine, etc., and have all
elevators at 9:09 a.m. run at express
speeds. Three floors out of fifty-three
are devoted to non-academic activities.

of the Dal student body.
Last Saturday's Basketball game
between Dal and the Y ended a Y vic
  
 
  
 

before they were able to

     
   

   
   
   
    
   
   
   
 
   

   
    
   
 

until with but five minutes to go, Grant c )
engineers a beautiful solo rush and oie ee be er ee bh
 Gertior banged kis pass behind Fer-| for the Tech squad and the Dal basket
ee ball management would do well to
"The second session went scoreless | investigate the eligibility of this player
te Co ae team “ieadae much ad-| before they let Tech use him. He may

Be ee tage. As the play went on the|be attending a few classes at Tech but
improved playing of the Dal six became} we seriously think that the Pres. of
more noticable and the chances of | that worthy institution would hesitate
winning the game were first brought | to call him a Tech student. If he's
home to the few spectators present.|not a Tech student he has no business
‘This and the determined playing of the | playing | for them. If Tech can get
cgi igers in the third period resulted in| away with that sort of stuff it’s time
Pt the Tigers outplaying the Saints and Dal went after Don Cox a a few ais 3 3
seine ine vl ore the |e Dal man whore cl 1M | cath Umer of Washington rte fae 2 ew
vede “gong. om Foley, — i : I c y A - 5 5 : “14? 5 Cosorave, Pres: |¢ aS § y “ain
me iD ; att the trick after the Dal forward line| play for Dal if Thomas ts entitled to oo jam oT ee con ; re res line the issues, so that they_will be able
play for Tech. the Dal|sented him with the honorary degree to form their own conclusions and select

ey!
- Last Thursday, at noon, the side to which their own opinions

had featured a foe aes of
combination. The Saints buc up a} I t e
ib oD the Boctiaae and Gerrior scored Basketball five minus Murphy; defeated of ‘Doctor of Laws. ai aiar) eae

the winning counter in the first five cd St. F. a ae 7 Ae be —New Student.

BS tet: nerind wi st drive from the} rather ragged in spots anc e sm ;

: Piha. tine. pA a ea gat to| crowd that attended had little to en- ag ey yeep emake sci had | ir

-  aiake up but they were unable to tally|thuse over. The Tigers had the better | . © MCWOr oe Fal Giecen OF |

aft. a. fof the play all through and had they | Just received some beauti ul pleces O All DalhousieSt udents

o." , used Murphy, would have walloped the | Work, presented by its ever ns aeiihicte

visitors. Without him they did very eA liga wties pacino especially the Book Lovers

it A De | som y- ee :

Ba kage iat ae tae tears A a the work of Enoeses- are cordially invited to make

dead theie contr | Dal| weetok the Versatile artist of the Sik
sil = ei cae re pene: oilingment Eskimo Tribe. These depict TH F BOOK ROOM
’ : _——_—__—_—$——$—$—$—$—— é

ors. 114 Granvilie Street

     
   
    
   
  
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 

 

 
     
  
 
  
   
  
  
 
  
  

For More Sincerity.

Harvard University debaters hereafter will be selected after round table
discussions rather than by the old tryout speech methods. The change was
prompted by a criticism in The New
W. T. Cosgrave, L.L.D. York Times, charging the Cambridge

On Thursday, January twenty-sixth speakers with insincerity. The round
  
  
 
        
  
   
  
    
   
 
  

    
   
   

  
   
 
   
 
   

 

     

    
    
   
  
 
 
   
 
 

  
   
  

  

 

 

  

 

e aay

     
 
  

 

 
     
 

;

    

ye ha the other game’ of the evening the
en heck’ sextette turned in a surprise win
et over the Kingsmen. The score was

 
     
 

  
  
  
  
   
  

es The Dal team lined up as follows:
Goal Ferguson; Defense MacCunn,

Be

   
    
  
   
      
 

 

phils : Forwards: Foley, Sangster,
P| Taylor, Power, MacDuff and Doyle. | eas ae Te ae MAN CRAZY AT THE MAJESTIC their Headquarters
Th their game last Thursday the Tig- INTERFACULTY

“Man¥Crazy” is adapted from the —_—

 

 
   
 
       
   

   
  
  
   
   
 
   
 
 
   
  
 

  
     
  

 

ers lost out to the Kings squad by the , fr E '
4, Nee cscs of 2—1. “The Kingsmen| Four games were played in the Inter- Saturday Evening Fost ie aes Come in and browse and
had a slight edge on the Tigers but the] faculty League last Saturday afternoon eg So Reed er os ; make yourself at home.
gts erie une ge Se nae Cosa, and Bie ee vee ‘i en with the romance between E. VICKERY, Manager.
e. A little more good com would | treated to some close and exciting mat- | Story

ches. the daughter of an aristocratic New

| fi Medicine won over} England family and _a truck driver on
Paes 5 a 32-14 ene and. as|the famous Boston Post Road. Much

   
 
  
 

   
  
 

BS h ve won the game for the Tigers. The
: St. Mary's team defeated “Tech 2-1.
ews) 4s kL, a :

3 — ee Seieea tee af. 3
| GIRLS’ BASKET BALL

 

 

 
 
 

ment

  
 

a tesult, moved up to the leading pos- | of the action takes place on the highway, PIANOS, VICTROLAS,

ition in thei tion. The first period |and complete sections of this famous sess "
Bed. wiih vie: aor deadlocked, but |road, true to exact detail, are seen in ot ey gue
Douglass put victory into the hands of the film. ictor rds

the Meds by scoring ten points in the|_““Man Crazy’ was directed by John
second session. Hamilton and Mc- Francis Dillon.

ae FICTION LENDING LIBRARY
ardaon 4; Jennings 2; Morash McLeod: 1928 Style Caps 2 cents per day

Oss. : ; ; :
earner eaten: aon. §: for MeQonald Music Cs,

Law proved themselves too strong Young Men 93 Barrington St. Halifax |
= the Dents cae eee pice of y 00 ach ak a
OF ee Star ur salt S=-UU_e ——

Frank Colwell Ltd. —|| George F. Power

most of their scoring in the first period
New Address

and ran in but one basket in the second.
Miller collected the only points for

417 Barrington Street Cigars, Cigarettes, Tobacco
Opp. Church of England Institute Se a Se

    
 

ae

  

We invite you to join our

   

_ ACADIA TRIMS DALHOUSIE 31-12
, oe se  - 7 us
On Saturday, February eighteenth
the Acadia girls’ basketball team defeated the Dalhousie squad 31—12.
The game was not very interesting to
- spectators being a one-sided victory for
the valley team. Their combination
was brilliant and Dalhousie failed to
ss come up to the expectations of the rooters. And their very little enthusiastic
ae, -rooting of course one could hardly
expect enthusiasm over such a poor
_ exhibition of hasketball on the part of
: ‘Dalhousie. There was practically no
combination, and zzld shooting and

 

 

   
  
 
 
 
   
   
    
       
    
   
     
      
     
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
 

 
 

 
 

  

  

   

f

| —_—_— passing were featured by the Dal girls
| ~ all through.
. ~~ he game started out fast and the
Dalhousie squad showed good form for
the first three minutes_and succeeded
jin scoring the first basket. Acadia
_ then started to plav up and for the re_ mainder of the game swamped the hometeam. The first period ended with a
score of 17—7 in favor of Acadia.
At the opening of the second period
7 Dal showed some determination and
| —_—~ the players struggled hard to stop the
| fast - work of Acadia. Their efforts
ss were, unfortunately, futile and the
| —s erack valley team continued to pile up
the score. The continuous changing of
the Dal team proved very ineffective
and when the final whistle blew the
score stood 31—12 with Acadia leading
by this wide margin.

  
  
 
     
   
 
  
 
 
    
 

  
   
 

Dents. Outhit led the Law attack
scoring six baskets.

Law:—C. Doyle, Redmond 6; Outhit
12; McNaught, Gavsie.

Dents: MacIntosh, Dubinsky, Miller
3; Richardson, Clough.

 

  
  
 

SMOKERS’ REQUISITES

       

   

of every Description

  
 

—Also—

 
 
   
  
 

The Theology quintette battled their
way to a ten to eight win over the
Freshmen in the es and pues
encounter of the afternoon. In the .
first periods both teams collected four The Dalhousie Gazette
points while in the second period both
teams scored twice on field baskets; the we recommend
Theologs won out on penalty throws.

Ross scored all hut three of the first
year men’s points while Frame and

. 9
Hawkins were the high men for the ;
Theologs.

Freshmen: Nickerson; Ross 5; Fraser

Cards, Souvenirs of Halifax
Majestic Bldg.
HALIFAX, - N.S.

To readers of

      
   
 

 

 

  
    
 
    
    
   
   
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
    
     
  
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
  
  

  

For 60 years the REACH Trade

  

ee go : oi Walia Mark on Sporting Goods has been
Poh ie, Jean Fraser played well for Dalhousie | 2; Miller; Clarke 1. L A sieNe es cease ;

| -whileTat MacLean starred for Acadia. Theology: Frame 5; Hawkins 3; a eee art ee ne a
rat, Dal line-up: Centres: J. Dumaresgq, MacLean 2; Tupper; Fraser; Archibald. | HE. REXAL De a aa ease aon

 

can supply you with equipment that
will help you play the game with
the best that’s in you.

CRAGG BROS., CO.,LTD.

Hardware and Sporting Goods
HALIFAX, N. S.

  

| «+H.» Sexton, E. Cameron, J. Fraser;

Bere Guards, H. Robertson, B. Freeman. L.
Barnstead; Forwards: A. McCurdy,

pee . <A. Atherton, T. Woed.

,

t i. Vi ;

DAL BASKETTES SWAMPS KINGS’

 

In the closing game of the programme
the Arts five lost out to the Commerce DRUG STORE
quintette after they sich lead ae.
opponents 4—1 at the end of the first :

eriod. The Commerce team rallied For everything in
in the closing minutes of the game and ;
just succeeded in nosing out the Arts
team, by the score of 10—-8. The Drug Store Needs
Artsmen oe up much better yesterday than they have done in any game so
far this season but couldn't withstand 499 Barrington Street
the last desperate attack of the Commerce five and as a result they kept
clean their ‘‘no-win” record. Olive was
top-man for the winners while Musgrave and Chisholm shared honours for

   
 

 

     

-————

 

On Monday, February twentieth, the
— Palhousie Intermediate team played
King's. The game was fast but the
King’s girls were swamped by the large

score of 46-—-6. The game was played
“alia under the Stirling rules, as all the city
league games are, and gave the forwards and centres lots of chance to
move about and shoot.

_ _‘The first half opened up with a rush
and Dal jumped into the lead. Betty
Freeman and Isabel Wood hooped basket p

after basket, and the first half ended |

th a score of 29—0 in favor of Dals

; ee

  

Phone Sack. 61

   

Halifax Chronicle

AND

The
Halifax Daily Star
The

   

the losers.
Arts: Budd, Chisholm 4; Gibbon; Say tt with Flowers, Say it with ours

- ke ee Ee ee THE HOME OF
ommerce: Miller 3; Rankin; Laurence; Slayter 1; MacColl 1; Olive 5; Cut F lowers & Potted Plants
Mahon: Matheson. We make up Funeral Designs,
| apy. Dy also Wedding Bouquets. We also
- do Table Decorating. We are the
' . only members of the T. F. D.

        
  

<=;

use. |

a me the second half the King's girls
_ tried hard to score, but Dal continued

to pile up points. The King’s players

have improved since the beginning of} |

the. and in spite of the one-sided ||

e season and in spite of t | STUDENTS’ ELECTRIC |
offered Dal plenty of - {|
final score wasi 49-61 favor of Dal,|| LAMPS AND. SUPPLIES
4 FARQUHAR BROS. LTD.
hd Barrington Street

fastest growing

      
 

Florists. We can wire Flowers
to all parts of the world

The Roseryp

8 BLOWERS ST.
Phone Sac. 3321-3322
Night Phone Sac. 1934

newspapers in
i —
:—Centres:_ M. ‘ViacDonald, No S ;
eons Guard: P. Miller, W.. Barn: va Scotia
ards, B. Freeman, T. Wood, | |

      

*)

 

WINNERS "Sart |

 

rf 7 Ae

 
 
 

 

 

IN FAST AND FURIOUS FARCE | *

——-
 

Although the producers have adopted
the famous slogan of the Royal Northwest Mounted Police ‘Get Your Man” |}
—as*the title of their latest starring |
picture, for Clara Bow, the production FRI. & SAT.

has nothing to do with this section of the “MAN CRAZY”’’

world.

The locale of the picture which conies |} witth
to the Casino Theatre next Monday ts| jf
France, where the entire action takes|| Dorothy Mackaill
place. 1 and

The story is of an American girl,|§
who is out to “‘get her man” even though | f
he has been betrothed to a French]|
girl since he was five years of age.

The picture is one of comedy situat- || MON. TUR. & WED.

ions which give Miss Bow the same|#f ,,
} Gentlemen

opportunity to score heavily as did
“(T," “Rough House Rosie’ and Prefer Rliondes*’ i
with }

“Hula.”
ALL STAR CAST

Jack Mulhall

 

 

Globe Laundry Ltd

50 Buckingham Street

 

G.W.SPRAGUE, Vice-Pres.
C. W. SPRAGUE, Pres. THIS THU-FRE-SAT.

, JANET GAYNOR
The College Students’ ies ot

Laundry “7th Heaven”

in

Telephone Sac. 714 ‘**2 GIRLS WANTED”
Buster Brown Comedy

‘*The Trail of the Tiger’’

FIRST THREE DAYS
NEXT WEEK

CLARA BOW

The World’s Fastest Worker

in
*“*“GET YOUR MAN”’

That Well
Groomed Appearance!

| Have your hair cut every 10 days
by one of LEE’S expert barbers
and maintain a neat appearance.

LEE’S

Basement Barber Shop
48 Sackville St., Malifax, K. S.

ORPHEUS

Great Broadway Musical
Show Brought joy only to
the Screen!

Lewis Wilson & Geo. K. Arthur

THE GINGHAM |
GIRL

 

Correct Appirel
for Co-eds

Afternoon, Evening
and Sports V ear

JENSEN & MILLS

CO., LIMITED
Spring Garden Road

    
   
       
 

 

MEDICAL STUDENTS

GYNECOLOGY
By ANSPACH. —

NEW - THIRD - REVISED - EDITION |
NOW RECOMMENDED |

CLass Price $10.00

ORDER FROM BOOKSELLER OR ©

 

  

ee ee, ay!

JEWELLERY DIRECT FROM |
We enjoy the distinction of J. B. LIPPINCOTT CO.
making practically all Dalhousie 201 Unity Bldg, . Montreal

Class Jewellery. lee a
We appreciate the trust placed = =

in us by the Dalhousie students i} F Vou WANT To SEE WELL

and in turn always assure them
SEE WALLACE

of our very best service.
HENRY BIRKS &SO S

PTOMETRIST AND OPTICIAN
.M,C. A, BLDG. HALIFAX, N.8

LIMITED

 

Diamond Merchants HALIFAX

 

COLWELL BROTHERS

Limited

 

453-457 Barrington Street

MEN’S HATS, CLOTHING, FURNISHINGS
AND LUGGAGE

HIGH CLASS GOODS AT MODERATE PRICES

 

         

 

Nova Scotia Technical College
| ENGINEERING COURSES

in

CIVIL, ELECTRICAL, MECHANICAL AND MINING

To Dalhousie Students with Engineering Diploma
MODERN EQUIPMENT

Insiructing Staff with Industrial Experience
Tuition Fee $75.00 per year. Twenty-five scholarships of $75.00 each

Write or call for Calendar or advice

F. H. SEXTON, Pres.

“THEY GET WHAT THEY
GO AFTER!”

Two Halifax citizens were discussing a campaign for a
modern hotel which THE HALIFAX HERALD was then
supporting. At this time there was great opposition and the
outcome was indeed uncertain. One citizen asked the other
if he thought the project would be successtul.

“Certainly, the other replied, “THE HALIFAX
HERALD is supporting it—it'll go through. They get what

they go after!”
y §

—IF IT WILL HELP NOVA SCOTIA THE

 

 

 

—_—

 

HALIFAX HERALD IS FOR IT—READ

THE HALIFAX HERALD

AND

THE EVENING MAIL

 

ee - s — mS = a ee 2 Se =." i “A z 2 ~

‘February 24th, 1928 . a
