’ A

 

Sea Se

 

   
     
    

a ' ‘ | Students f
rs PRESENTED ON EACH SIDE, Meet Next Weck

xr DEBATE TO BE HELD WEDNESDAY, NOV. 23—AN|MANY IMPORTANT QUEST
INTERESTING SUBJECT TO BE DISCUSSED IONS TO a ee
-—

 

 

 

ay The Laws of Waters including natural |
ection, survival ofthe fittest and
"s entire scientific structure were |
; a hreatened with downfall as students
eT debated whether marriage is a hind
tance of success, or otherwise.
2 asi The four principle speakers | invoked
a __ all the rhetoric and political invective
| — in_- their powers and luckily for our
: _ eivilization Ann Clark and Jack Atwood
| succeeded in convincing the audience
ee 4 in the Munro Room on Wednesday

‘% night that Marriage is Not a Hindrance
to a Career, for the vote went against

Jean MacKenzie and Roy Lawrence.
Jean MacKenzie convincingly argued
that marriage hinders a woman's career. Women today wants to do more
than prepare some man's meal; she
wants to show her capacities in art,
literature and ‘science. There is more
trouble in 150 pounds of man than ina

J. Gerald Godsoe, president of the
Students’ Council has informed the
Gazette that a meeting of this Student
organ will he held next week.

This meeting is of particular interest
to the Student Body as many problems
will be discussed that touch directly
on Student Activities of vital importance.

1. Should Dalhousie enter the Nattenal Federated Council of University
Students?

2. Are you interested in. the Year
Book?

3. Should the Students’ rink be continued?

4. Should the $7 fee for the Students’
Council be increased? Lowered?

2 Should we institute a Dramatic
ae Ste

6. Should the Students of Kings
College support. some of the Dalhousie

Writes Go Council

    
    
 

a .
we

bla 1

ton of dynamite, she exclaimed. Student activities? A re
- e ' 6 Z as port will be
| es can lark «eager Fanconi an. on this question by Godsoe and
a ' ankin.
Piha. statesmen profited by women’s counsel. All these above-mentioned problems

ies Laurier achieved half his success

Joseph Howe was aided
ey This mid Henry Ford, Mussolini
and many profs. at Dal have also wives.

student directly
The attendance
and the

which affect every
will be thrashed out. T.
at these Council meetings

 

Hou.

Th) cnt At atneess co. dew »| discussions on the problems presented

idea of marriage? Ute By Bennet, NEW lead of thé
ie Basie, ae Beam ideas 6 . Laberal-Conservative party in Canada | @t¢ the things that make “the life of <
ans STARS 3 8 e for the affirmative and a graduate in law of Dal- little college.” These are the rea’
, Peet eee houste Untver sity. things that make the wheel go round,

1 Hh 3) “exclaimed. with eer exuberance: woman
i must go b e home! The in_ dependent ee conditions of today
if (: ' ‘ are the woman from the home.

ae | bachelors are the adventurers.

lt is to’the benefit of every student to
put his shoulder to the wheel.
The meeting is open to every student

ACADIA WINS IN and will be held in the Munro Room.
GROUND HOCKEY|—=
————

Showing marked improvement in
form and out to avenge their defeat by
Dal at Halifax the Acadia team won a
decisive 4—O0 victory over the Dal
girls. Three goals were scored in the
first period when the Dal play was
ragged and the team seemed unable to
get into its stride. Two goals were
scored from mix-ups in front of the
goal when the puck was accidently
shot between their own posts by members of. the Dalhousie team. During
the second period Dal settled down to

 

| ‘i ir nee ey ae the achiev ‘regard ess of Dorothy Dix.
a Atwood then | delivered the
lissertation that created a mild seney neroetig He euologized marriage as
oars greatest gift to mankind; with
his hand on his heart he exclaimed:

" ete oe of it lt .
Then followed a long series of speakers
pane audience. Fiery rebuttals
Bde egaer adjectives of all descriptions
s yollied back and forth; the laughter
Sed craig signified that the audfs ience was pl
| s danagecoe others these also spoke:

ie a 7.
aa

‘

   
 

“Play that again Athel.” It was
Watson who languidly spoke whilst
deliberately poking the smouldering
embers of our supper fire with the kettle
stick, and we too nodded assent; as the
request was for an Indian funeral song
which Athel had himself composed—a
most captivating air, tinged with

 
   

Council

 

 
 

vee, Morris, MacKinnon, B. A.,
Coffee, Eddie Murray, Duncan Mac
, Ben Guss, Albert Walsh, John
Shaw, 'B. M. Kelloway, Don Finlayson,
Graham Allen, Don Grant and Jean
Shaw.

The lawyers introduced various aspects of the law on the matter. Solomon's wisdom was also mentioned to the
effect that its O} K. for a man to fall
into a woman's arm, but not so good
if he falls into her hands.

Have Men Better Dispositions Than
Women—is the next subject to be
debated. If this subject won't attract
a crowd on Wed. Nov. 23 at 8 o'clock
to the Munro Room—then Sodales
had better give up.

Muriel Donahoe, actress, scholar and
heartbreaker with her colleague

Eileen Cameron, poet and sportswoman will contend with all their vim

Morton, financial wizard, humorist and
shiek will prove that men are the better

=

play a steadier game and was able to
hold Acadia to one tally. Although the
score would not indicate it the play was
exciting and the gamea fast one.

The line-ups:

Dalhousie—Eileen Cameron, Isabel
Wood, Jacqueline Dumaresq, Anne
Clark, Helen Robertson, Alene McCurdy, Elena Cavicchi (Capt.), Helen
Sexton, Lillian Barnstead, Jean MacKenzie, Manager; Kay Winfield, goal.

Oo

The law smoking room was full of
smoke. Through the mist could he
discerned the serious brows of the students, as they sat with their pipes in the
postures of thinkers. The little figure
of Clyde Keyes—ah just another learned
dissertation by Keyes on Modern Social
Problems.

MacLeod: “Bring your friends and
y ur friend's friends toc.”

Letter From R. B. Bennett |
RA |

J. GERALD GODSOE, Esq.,
President, Council of Students,
Dalhousie University,

Halifax, Nova

Scotia.

_ Dear Mr. Godsoe,—I have not had an opportunity until
today to thank you for the very kind message which you
_sent to me on behalf of the Council of the students on the
occasion of my election as Leader of the Opposition in the

House of Commons.

I have undertaken a most difficult task, and fully apprec_iate the magnitude of the responsibilities imposed upon me;
but I am cheered by the wonderful messages of good will
that I have received from men and women, regardless of
their political party affiliations, from every part of Canada,

to do my very best.

- can only hope in some small way to realize that ideal

es ublic service which that great and Godly man, Dean

Weldon, so strongly impressed upon the student body as
being their reasonable service to this Dominion.

I feel a wealth of gratitude to Dalhousie for all that it

; en for me, and I only hope that the students of this day

receiving as much benefit from their attendance at

re ‘Palhoude

as I did in the days of my youth.

. r My kindest: ao to all my fellow students,
Yours faithfully,

ge B, BENBEET.

which
young, are gathered.
clutch the heavy dresses of their mothers,
their eyes are wide open, filled with
fear and wonder, awe inspired by the
touch of Death.

sadness yet pregnant with a peculiar
exaltation. One could almost visualize
the young brave reverently gazing upon
the deer skin mausoleum of his fathers,
then slowly turning his back and hastening after his retreating tribe, soon to
be swallowed up by the shadowy forest.

‘Twas late September and the night
was cool so that the warmth of our tiny
fire was very welcome, a glow suffused
our tired limbs as we sat sleepily gazing
at the strange creations of the lurid
flames and starting anon as a stick
burnt through, fell and broke sending
a shower of sparks heavenward.

Presently the bow ceased being drawn
over the quivering strings and the last.
long, low note died away in the song of
the rapid. Athel sank beside me on the
log.

“Do you know what that reminds
me of,”’ asked Watson in a monotone.

Some one started to protest but

spell had been cast over that little
camp on the Height of Land.

“Do you know what that reminds me
of,’’ continued Watson persistently,
“I can see several men with spades and
buckets in their mittened hands standing
around a freshly dug grave on one of the
farmyards. See' they are continually
bailing out the hole. How brown the
water is' Close by, the strong sou’west
“ii, boos vigour that women are better

Wey ‘natured, dispositioned of the human species. quickly relapsed into silence; a far
ir Sait BUT—Graham Allen, producer, artist With such eminent thinkers as these| away call of a loon on the lake shore
| Nts and author and his friend ‘Kelly’ |on the stand we need only quote Rod| fell upon deaf ears. It seemed as if a

   
 
  
  
 
   
 
  
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 

ers are breaking into lathery foam
over the rocks,
moanings of the sea little affect the
tattered band—its dirge } is for the dead.

but the mournful

On the moss behind them is the
narrow coffin of rough boards, around
many women, some old, some
Two little tots

Hark, they're singing in Esquimaux.

The young girl whose hand is on the
bier is leading. The tears slowly fall
from her eyes and her voice breaks,
but she keeps on.

What poignant grief there is in that

touching hymn as it swells and shrinks!
It’s like the voice that rolls forth from
the greenish depths of an iceberg as it
oe and sinks on the oily swells.

Here a log fell with a thud and blazed
up anew with a hiss and crackle, sending
up a myriad of fire points into the black
night. It startled us all and Watson
stop d for a moment, then resumed.

yes,” he mused, “I can hear them,
faintly hear them,’ and he bent his
head as if striving to catch the sound.

“T can seé another scene”, he continued. “Tis Westminister Abbey on
Watch Night; Big Bén has tolled the
hour. ~ It is lightly snowing and the red
lights of the surrounding buildings make

—Official Student Publication at Dalhousie University—

  

 

 

 

DAL vs. WANDERERS

a

Tomorrow our Tigers and
the Wanderers will meet on
the Wanderers’ grounds to
decide the city rugby Championship. The winner of the
championship earns the
right to play in the series
for the McCurdy Trophy,
emblematic of the Rugby
championship of the Maritime provinces. Both teams
have enviable performances
to their credit this vear. |

PAPERS READ AT
LITERARY MEET’G

The Mid-lothian literary held 1ts
second regular meeting at Shirreff Hall
on Thursday evening. [It opened with
the reading of the minutes and a consideration of programs for future me elings. It was decided that there would
be one more meeting before C hristmas
at which two papers would be gi en on
Rudyard Kipling; one on Kip' ing as a
prose writer the other on Kipling ai a
poet. Papers on Rupert Brooke, John
McCrae and Joyce Kilmer were then
presented by Madeleine Page, Marjorie
Dunsworth and Margaret Ells. Each
paper was followed by an interval discussion which brought to light some
interesting remarks on Joyce Kilmer’'s
sex and John McCrae’s age, as well as
some really enlightening opinions. After
the serving of refreshments the meeting
broke up and some members were heard
to remark that Japanese would have
felt perfectly at home. The next meeting will be held on Nov. 23.

 

 

the feathery flakes sparkle and glint
in their slow descent. A vast organ
drones within the famous Abbey and a
choir of seraphs sing sweetly All are
well fed. All are happy. All is life.
Heth ee hy ae . he shook his head; then
presently rose ‘with a shiver and entered
the tent followed by his comparions.

—G. W.

SOPER ADDRESSES
MEDICAL MEETING

A very interesting Boas meeting of the

Dalhousie Students Medical Society was
held in the Munroe Room on Monday,
at 8 o'clock p. m. Several items of
business were dealt with the most important being the appointment of Eddie
Ross to the position of Manager of the
Interfaculty basketball team, in place
of Fred C. Jennings who resigned.

Dr. W. H. Soper of the Interne
Staff of the V. G. Hospital then gave a
very interesting case history. A discussion of the case followed in which
nearly all the members present took
part. A number of questions was
asked which were answered very readily
by Dr. Soper.

At the close K. M. Grant moved a
vote of thanks for Dr. Soper for his
very instructive talk. This was seconded by W. H. MacLeod.

Although the number of members
present was not large yet each member
entered into all discussions and made
this meeting one of the most enjoyable
held yet this year.

—E. S. G.

_ he

©;

 

Dr. Charles J. W. Beckwith, made
a short visit to Halifax this week. At
present he is taking a medical internship in the Royal Victoria, Montreal.

ee

COUNCIL OF NINE
FAVORS TOUR

The proposed tour to Vancouver by
the Football Team received a substantial moral boost when the committee of Nine with Dr. MacKenzie
presiding went on record—at a meeting
on Friday Nov. 11,—as favouring the
trip.

The money problem had been left
in the hands of the Students’ Council;
through popular subscription amongst
the Students, Alumni and Friends—the
Council was able to inform the Committee that a sufficient financial guarantee had been obtained.

Immediately upon receiving the sanction of the Committee, Bill Winfield
wired Vancouver that Dal will make the
trip.

These are but preludes to the swelling
act: the swelling act through which
Dalhousie will wave her banner alort
in foreign fields.

 

 

gir

arr
ve
in

a ae
Mn

tt

i HAL IFAX, | NOVA SCOTIA SCOTIA, NOVEMBER 17th, 1927

 

LARGEST
CIRCULATION
OF ANY COLLEGE

PAPER IN THE
MARITIMES

 

__ NO.

 

DECIDES MARRIAGE DOES NOT HINDER CAREER

[ARTHUR MURPHY CHOSEN
CHIEF OF YEAR BOOK STAFF

 

COMMITTEE BEGIN WORK EARLY IN PREPARATION
FOR PUBLISHING ANNUAL UNIVERSITY PERIODICAL

wa 
Year Book Chief

Med. *30, who has
editor-in-chief of the
Year Beok for 1927-28

Arthur L. Murphy,
been chosen
Dalhousie

BIOLOGY CLUB
ELECTS LEADERS

The Biology Club Oth held its re-organization meeting Thursday Nov. 10th,
at 8.15 p. m. in the Dental Theatre,

Dr. George Eadie gave an exceedingly
interesting talk on athletics and Oxygen. He showed graphs_ of records
made in long distance walking, running,
skating and swimming, which showed
comparisons in endurance between man

and woman. He also indicated what
records might quite easily be broken,
and gave reasons why some others
would probably remain unsurpassed.

The Club was pleased to welcome

Mr. Schierbeck, Provincial Forrester,
Profs. Murray MacNeil, Horace Reid,
Angus MacDonald, and Dr. A. H.

MacKay. Dr. MacKay was the [first
head of the Biological Department and
still takes an active interest in its
affairs. After the meeting the club
adjourned to the Biology lab., where
refreshments were served.

The next meeting will be held on
Nov. 24th, and all members are asked
to pay their dues as soon as possible.

The officers elected for this year are:

Charles Allen: Pres.

James Fraser: Vice-Pres.

Marjorie Ellis: Treasurer

Mabel Borden: Secretary

Programme Committee:
anloch, H. P. Bell,
and George Whiteley.

—_—_ee—e—ee SP

Of course the freshettes cannot be
expected to know the history of a/l the
lesser lights about the university. List
to the words from one fair maid: Who is
ne Stan person? Whom does he go
with?

Profs. GowEleanor Chesley

Spring Exams, Convocation and the
end of another year seem almost undiscernable in the dim distaice but the
Year Book Editors have already been
chosen and are now preparing for such
future events. To’ some it may seem
very soon to bezin working on the Year
Book, but those w ho know from experience—that is last year's Editors—
say that it

 

cannot be begun too soon.
Because last year's was Dalhousie’s
first Year Book there were so mat 1y

difficulties in getting s' tarted that practically all the work had to be left for the
last month or so, with the result that
many things the Editors wished to do
had to remain undone, Besides it was
exceedingly difficult to carry 07 such an
u idertaking so near exam time. To
avoid another such situation the staff
of '27 suggested that the Edirors should
be chosen by the first wees in November at the very latest.

Last year the Seniors were the editors
but because of the amount of time
necessarily taken up, it was generally
conceded to be a difficult work for the
graduating class. Class '27 suggested
that in the future the Juniors should
take charge of it. But the final ae
mace at an Executive Meeting of '
and '29, was that the two classes aes i
work toget ther. In this way there would
always

be someone with experience,
to take up the work at the beginning
of each year. As all positions were

held last year by members of Class ‘27,
there was nobody who knew how to
do so. The committee of '28 owe a
vote of thanks to Avis Marshall, Art.
Jubien and Harry Bell, indefatigable
workers of last year who so willingly
gave any help asked for,

At the meeting of the Year Book
Committee Arthur Murphy was elected
Editor-in-Chief. The new Editor has
always taken a prominent part in
Student activities, being former Gazette
Editor, producor of Glee Club Shows,
and member of the Students’ C ouncil,

A word to the Students in general
might not be out of place. The staff
has been chosen and have begun their
plans but it is hardly fair to choose a
staff, heave a sigh of relief and feel
that a good work has heen completed.
The support of the Student body is
needed to make the Year Book a success.
lt is edited for the students, not for the
editorial staff. So get behind the
Year Book, support the editors and
make it a success,

nS

ACADIA U. SENDS
DEBATE SUBJECT

The Athenaeum Society of Acadia
University, whom the Dalhousie debating team is to encounter in an intercollegiate debate next term, has submitted a st tbject for the coming event.
The subject, ‘‘Resolved that Bolshevists administration of economic affairs
since 1917 has been to the economic
advantage of the Russian people,”
would appear to be full of possibilities
and should elicit great argument and
oratory. Acadia has the choice of
subject while Dalhousie has the choice
of side. Choice should be made in the
near future so that some work might
be done on whipping a team into shape
for the coming contest.

 

TIGERS’ WIN OVER SERVICES
GIVES CHANCE FOR HONORS

Minus the services of ‘Bunker’
Murphy, Archie McDonald, and Baird
the Dalhousie Tigers won the right to
play off with the Wanderers for the
City. Championship last Saturday by
defeating the United Services 13—3 in
a slow game playe:l on a muddy field
before a small crowd of spectators.
The showing made by the Gold and
Black in the first half of the game was
disappointing to the few Dalhousians
who ventured out to see the game and
many of them were unduly harsh in
their criticism of their team. It was
undeserved because in the first place
the field was in such a condition that
good Rugby was practically impossible
and in the second place Dal were considerably weakened. hy tne necessary
changed w hich the coaches had to make
in the line up. The marked change
for the better in the second half did
much to alleviate the gloom and most
of the Dal fans went away confident
that the Tigers would take the measure
of the Reds in the championship game.

The first half of the game produced
little or no excitement for the spectators
and, with a few exceptions, the play was
watched in silence. About half way
through the period Thompson of the
Services broke through the Dal for
wards and with only George McLeod
to beat, dribbled up the field to score
the first try of the ¥game. Immediately after Kelly McLean. nearly
tailied in the same way for Dal but
allowed the ball to get away when in a
good position to cross the line. The
Navy scrum were hé aving the better of
their scrimmages with the Tigers and
the Dal three quarter line had little
chance to prove their worth. Near the
end of the half Art Sutherland staged
a pretty run and nearly crossed the
Services’ line; Charley McDonald, the
Services’ full back brought Art down
just in time. Dal were pressing strongly at this juncture and a few minutes

later Art Sutherland carried the ball
over the line for Dal's first score. Bill
Wickwire converted and the Tigers

were two points up on their opponents
when the half ended, shortly after.

The Tigers lined up in the second hal?
with Tupper at block half, Kelly McLean
on the forward line, and Townshend
on the three quarter line. MclL ean
took charge of the scrum and it wasn't
long before the benefit of the chinges
were apparent. It is doubtful if the
Services were on the Dal side of the

centre line for five.minutes in the final

CONTINUED ON PAGE 3.

 
    

(Founded 1869)
FRED C, JENNINGS
News Editor. Sports Editor
_ W. GRAHAM ALLEN J. W. WHALEN
Exchange Editor.
KATHERINE HANIFEN
oie As Associate Editors.
BEN GUSS

W. GORDON DUSTAN
MARGARET ELLS

Circulation Manager
Ss. W. ARCHIBALD

Business Manager.

RALPH S. MORTON
52 Quinpool Rd.
Phone Sac. 304

Subscription Rate : $1.00 per year

Now Is The Time

Now is the time for all good men to open their books and study.

 

are hardly aware of their passage. The Christmas vacation, which
looked so distant when we registered, is now hardly a month away.
But before we reach that Land of Promise, that Home of Delights,

we must cross the stygian stream of examinations.
1 time to begin collecting a few coppers of knowledge that we may
be ready to pay our tribute to the dread ferryman who in the guise
: of numerous professors is ready to exact the toll.
If the tribute we now collect is insufficient to satisfy the greed
f of the rapacious Charon, we shall, with sinking steps, wade through
Kd the stream with the ferryman’s oar, (in the form of a blue pencil),
y', ‘slashing and beating down our puny efforts.
| ba In other words, let’s study!

ri The College ‘Rink

The cooling breath of the autumn breeze as it sweeps across
the campus as a harbinger of the coming wintry blasts, has stirred in
the minds of the Students’ Council the question of a college rink
for the coming hockey and skating season. It is fairly generally
known about the campus that, for the past two winters Dalhousie
has had a rink of its own. This necessary part of college property
was erected and maintained by the Council of Students and was
open to the general student body at certain specified times. It
was also open to the elements at no specified times and the consequence was the specified times for students were “few and far
between.”’

It is not right to criticize too heavily the action of the Council
_ that planned the open air rink because the rink, as it stood, was an
advancement. A poor excuse, it is said is better than none and,
| on those grounds will we justify the action of the Council. However,
many students as they hurried to lectures across the campus viewed
the snowy bosom of “Our Skating Arena’ and thought in their
hearts that truly a ‘‘White Elephant” had been foisted upon them.
. The initial cost of the rink, including materials and construction
- was in the vicinity of one thousand dollars. The cost of maintenance for the first year of its existence was six hundred and fifty
dollars and last year the outlay was roughly four hundred dollars,
making a total outlay of approximately two thousand dollars. If
we add to these outlays the cost of holding a number of practices
for the first and second hockey teams in the Halifax Arena and the
rental of the Arena for the majority of the Interfaculty hockey games
‘which took place in that rink last year and the year before, the
figure is increased appreciably.

Dalhousie has been trying for a number of years to develop
a first class hockey team—-and with poor results. Is it because we
have no material, or is it that the material on hand has not been
given conditions conducive to development. It would appear
that the latter was the case. With a rink that is constantly being
put out of condition by storms, thus necessitating the hiring of a
closed rink, the hours of practice become few and uncertain. It is
not always possible to hire the Arena at suitable hours. Consequently the team suffered. If Dalhousie had no rink at all,
arrangements could and would be made with the Arena management
for regular practices during the season.

But that is not the point. A university as large as Dalhousie
should be able to erect and maintain a rink—-that could be of
use to the students during the major part of the skating season.
The benefits accruing from the erection and maintenance of such
a rink would more than outweigh the expenses of construction and
management. Many smaller universities are operating fairly
pretentious skating arenas without apparent financial embarrassment and there is no reason why Dalhousie could not do likewise.

The question of non-residence, of course, comes up. In resident
colleges the rink is the sole absorbing feature of student life during
the winter season. Would this be the case at Dalhousie? Probably not to so great a degree, but we have many advantages that
resident colleges, which are usually situated in small towns, lack.
If a fairly substantial covered rink was built on the campus, it
could be opened to the public a number of nights and thus the
matter of expenses of management could be solved to a great extent.
The impetus that a good rink would give to hockey would be reilected in the development of a first class hockey team at Dalhousie. A first class hockey team would mean a number of interesting and exciting encounters with other teams and exciting hockey
games mean money in the coffers of the rink. Considering all
these points, a substantial covered rink at Dalhousie appears not
only desirable but also feasible.

The present cost of maintenance if added to by an equal sum
from receipts at the ‘‘gate’’ would, without a doubt, pay the interest
on the initial outlay and leave ample margin for a sinking fund for
depreciation. It would appear that the results to be obtained are
worth the venture.

e Basket Ball Trip?

* Elsewhere in this issue is a letter from the manager of the

. Dalhousie basket-ball team suggesting a combining of both basketball and football teams on the trip to the coast. This matter is
_ worth consideration as the added expense could be more than paid
by the guarantees received from university teams which our basket
____ ball team would meet. If possible, this matter should be taken up

____ at once, as the time is very short and there would necessarily have to
hie” bea number of arrangements made.

      
   
   
 

2

} o- a"
4

, 7 4o.\
* I
a ye + ae A }
- - a, .* be
a a : i Wits 7 cs
eet ota | Si ‘e SJ + i. 4
a. , ee a} a t f , 7 4. fa
i ae a

   

W
7 aT Aa

 

  

  
   
  
    
  

The days are slipping by with subtile movement—so subtile that we

Now is the

  

‘Dal Credo

B

 

Karl Kampus
nd Sam Studley

After a week's lapse, the compilers
again ae up their trusty ParkerDuofolds in a further attempt to
elucidate, excoriate and exemplify the
unexoterica!l conceptions of ‘‘homo Dalhousians.”” A beaker of undergraduate
dogma was taken, and after decantation,
filteration and evaporation to dryness,
we have found that the residue contained the following salient, if rather
surprising beliefs.

We take pleasure, therefore, in announcing that among other things, they
who loiter within the precincts of this
oe of erudition are of the opinion
that—

44. That the Misses Morton, Beatty
and Copperthwaite are the pick of this
year’s somewhat meagre crop of fresh
ettes.

45. That Sonford Wellington Archibald (Barney), irrepressible wit, potential Don (Hm bon vivant and man
about town, is the biggest menace to
traffic in the city of Halifax today.

46. That Anne Bell could easily
secure a job in the front line of any
Broadway chorus.

47. That the tango, performed at a
recent Glee Club meeting, was the very
poetry of motion.

48. That a collection should at once
be taken up to get George Wright (the
gent with the Christie) a decent hat.

49, Censored.

50. That with the graduation of
Harry Dustan, the glory of the Studley
Bachelors Bridge Club has departed.

51. That Charlie McKenzie has
already dated up our Persian Princess
for the Law Dance.

52. That, when the leadership of
R. H. McLeod (K. C.), Sodaies is a
big success for the first time in years.

53. That it is about time the compilers of this Credo took a crack at
Professor Walter Ross.

54. That Doctor Wilson gets all the
lowe-down on Shirreff Hall.

55. That since the departure of the
raccoon coat men, Professors Pierce and
McDonald, Prof. Murray McNeil and
Jack Brookfield are the only true
collegiates left.

56. That a certain well known member of the Gazette staff successfully
evaded a bid to the last Shirreff Hall
Dance.

57. That everyone thought ‘Ben
Hur” was a rotten show but they are
too scared to admit it.

58. That the odds are 5 to 3 that
Johnny Budd gets a bid to Delta Gamma.

59. That Phil Winchester will soon’
be able to donate the new gym to the
university.

 

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

— ee

EEE,

English At Dalhousie

Editor of Dalhousie Gazette.

 

Dear Sir:—May I be permitted to use
a little space in your valuable paper to
comment on something, which, inadvertently | am sure, Dr. MacMechan
neglected to mention in his ‘Dalhousie
of To-day.” ;

What I desire to speak of is the
shocking way in which the student body,
as a whole, show their ignorance of
good and proper English. |

I am hoping this article will come to
the notice of Dr. MacFarlane, Professor
C. L. Bennet, or even Dr. MacMechan himself in order that they may
profit hereby, and, in future, keep a
more watchful eye over the language
of their charges.

It was at the Dalhousie—Wanderers
game that I first noticed the glaring
error on which I am about to comment.
Thinking that the English professors
would notice and have it corrected I
have refrained from mentioning it
before. However two games have since
been played and still the horrible sound
comes to my ears: “‘Vancouver or
bust’’!

I was seated with a friend on the
Wanderers side of the fiéld. Directly
across from us, indulging in college
yells and songs, we could see the student
body of your university. This led us
to speak of the values of a college
education, of which there seemed to be
an unlimited number. As we talked
we noticed the three ‘cheer leaders”
take their places and we listened to
hear what their next “yell’’ would be.
This is what we heard: ‘Vancouver or
bust’ “Vancouver or bust!’ ‘“Vancouver or bust!” ““Van-cou-ver'”"'

Did I really hear aright or were my
ears deceiving me?—‘‘Vancouver or
bust!’ What did they mean? I took
out my dictionary immediately—being
of an inquisitive turn of mind I always
carry a dictionary—and turned to the
word “bust”. It was defined thus:
“A piece of sculpture representing the
head, shoulders, and breast of a person.”
What had this to do with the proposed
trip of the Dalhousie Tigers to Vancouver? J was puzzled.

My eye travelled to the next definition; ‘‘frolic; spree.’ Still this didn’t
seem to fit. Should either of these
synonyms be taken then, one would
think, the “‘or’’ in the slogan should be

 

European Reconstruction

   

Nine years ago, after having snuffed
out millions of lives, destroyed even the
little good will until then existing
among nations and ruined some of the
greatest artistic achievements of mankind, the Great War came to an end.
Today as one crosses Europe, he sees the
process of repairing the material damage.
Most destroyed towns are rebuilt,
though here and there, in their peculiarily quiet and deserted streets, a
shattered house may be seen standing
forlorn between new facades of brick
and stone. Churches have been or are
being erected. The country side, freed
from the debris of war, is once more
subjected to cultivation: but best of
all the treasures of Art, which suffered
during the war are, in most cases, taking
on again that aspect which endeared
them to lover of the beautiful.

The nave of Rheims is as it was before
the war. Hardly a scar mars the
interior. In a few years, the only
reminder of the deplorable condition
in which the church was in 1918, will
be a few broken stones on the exterior.
At Soissons the stone yard is in full
activity. The Cathedral is half rebuilt and the work is still going rapidly
forward. Those who remember it as
it was before the war say that the restoration of the venerable pile is perfect.
Slowly also the vaults of St. Quentin are
being closed over and the hopeless work
progresses. ‘The list of building which
in France and Flanders are enjoying
the same resurrection ‘is long. With
perhaps the sole exception of the Cloth
Hall at Ypres the skill of the restorer
in returning what the ruthlessness of
war snatched away.

Coming into Ypres one sees the
various Hindenburg lines and on a
height of land behind, sticking a little
above the earth, may be seen the
concrete structures constructed to give
shelter to the Germans during heavy
fighting. There are three rows of
them. The British trenches were only
of clay and are all raked out smooth.
Along the Yser Ganal, where the Belgiums and English fought the Germans
across twenty feet of water, may be
seen the place where sixty huge tanks
are sunk, This section of the country
is known as the Tank Cemetery. For
a while the tanks could be seen, half
bured in the soft clay into which their
own weight had sunk them. The canal
is now only a succession of stagnant
pools, full of heaped up earth.

At Dixmude there is a great curiosity
in the form of aGerman gun which fired
twenty-five miles. This gun is hidden
in a wood, covered with all kinds of
camouflage so that it was never seen.
It took two years to put it into place.
they had a wooden dummy two miles
away which gave off smoke when the
real one fired. This was to fool the

It did. The gun is a huge
thing. A man could crawl down the
muzzle. Its shots weigh seven tons.
lt had to be fired from a station two
hundred feet away, because of the concussion. Around the thing is a veritable concrete city. ‘When the Germans abandoned the gun, they wanted

They sunk its nose down

allies.

to destroy it.

e i

so that it faced a concrete wall five. feet
thick. They thought that the shell
would hit this and explode in the gun
and break the gun: but they did not
count on the force of the gun. The
shell went clear through the wall and
did not explode until it had gone a considerable distance. The result is that
the gun is intact today.

Such are the few relics of the war
which are left. For the most part the
memory of those awful years af carnage
has been obliterated in the zeal and
enthusiasm of the people to reconstruct
their national life Their vision for the
future is a bright one for great is their
faith in the League of Nations. Even
Germany is striving to live up to its
highest ideals of international friendship. Europe today is impressed with
the happiness and contentment of the
people; with the enthusiasm and ambition of the several nations.

—E. V.

Dental Dance A Big
Success

Those who attended the Dental Dance
last Monday night had only one fault to
find with it, it had to come to an end.
The Gym was decorated, in an original
manner, in blue and gold. The huge
tooth in the center of the floor was much
admired and many witty suggestions
were heard as to whose head it came
from.

Joe Mills and His Orchestra were at
their best and the three novelty dances,
a confetti, a balloon and a candy dance
were particularly enjoyable.

The chaperones of the evening were
Dean and Mrs. G. K. Thomson, Dr,
and Mrs. J. S. Bagnall, Dr. and Mrs.
W. C. Oxner and Dr. and Mrs. C. B.
Climo.

The credit for the success of the dance
must go to the very efficient committee
composed of W. H. Godsoe, A. R. Miller,
S. K. Oldfield T. E. Cragg, Chas.
Sullivan, L. L. Buffet and J. F. Griffin.

For want of that still unforthcoming
synonym for ‘‘hest yet’? we can call the
the dance a howling success in every
detail.

(a 
A Poet In The Making

(Dedicated to those readers who are
erudite enough to appreciate it.)

 

Hear Pope at five, a child unknown to

4 ane

(He “‘lisped in numbers, for the numbers
came”’):

‘‘T thing a thong of how at thchool today

The croth old pedagogue to me did thay,

‘Thepeak, Alekthander, can you thpell
me cat?’

I thpoke: ‘I'll thpell no thillineth like
that;—

Thpell it yourself, old fothill, if you can;
The proper thtudy of mankind ith
man *

—Don Murray.

 

 

both surprised and horrified. It was:
“dialectal or vulgar pronunciation of
burst’! (The italics are my own).
How shocking! Supposed students of
an intellectual institution disgracing
themselves and their teachers thus!
Can't something be done about it?
I ask you.
“Critique.”

Football

The Editor,

Dalhousie Gazette,

Halifax, N.S.

Dear Sir:—There are certain misunderstandings current among the student body, which I would like to clear up
through your paper if you will be so
kind as to give me space.

On account of the trip to Vancouver
this year, Football has probably excited
more interest among the students than
any other sport. As might be expected,
there has been a great deal of criticism
regarding the team, and many opinions
have been expressed more or less at
random.

One thing I would like to make plain
to the students in general. We have
two coaches this year, both of whom
are old Dal players. They are giving
a great deal of time, and spending a
lot of trouble to try and make the Team
the best possible. The team is selected
at the end of each week by these coaches.
There have been many changes made,
in an effort to make the final selection
worthy of representing Dalhousie in
Vancouver. Everything possible has
been done to give every man a tryout.
It appears that the decision of the
coaches has not always met with the
general approval of the Student body.

The football team comes under the
jurisdiction of the D. A. A. C. of which
every student is a member. It is
impossible to allow the individual
student a voice in the matter of selecting
the team. I would therefore ask that
the Student Body get behind the team
in the only way they can, on the side
lines, and give them every possible
support. We have done very well
this year. It is the first time for a good
many years that Dalhousie has reached
the final playoff in the City League.
Every effort is being made to overcome
the handicap we have due to injuries of
players, and to place a winning team
on the field in the deciding game of the
City League.

Thanking you for space in the Gazette, I am,

Yours very truly,
G. A. WINFIELD,
Manager.

 

Many Present At
Pine Hill Dance

Nelson Hall was the scene of a very
gay gathering on Friday the 11th inst.
when about sixty Pine Hillers each
took along a damsel to participate in
the annual Pine Hill Residence dance.
The Hall was well decorated,—a notable
feature being the collection of college
banners that adorned the walls.

Keyes orchestra of six pieces furnished the music, and if a good time is
any indication of the quality of the
orchestra, it is the best orchestra in
town. Blakeleys did the catering.

Prof. Gowanloch and Dr. and Mrs.
Young chaperoned. The Committee
under the management of Watson
MacNaught are heartily congratulaed
on their brilliant achievement, for the
dance was an Al success.

 

BIG BENN Y’S NOTE-BOOK

I burned me hand the other day an
me mother sed ekspearyence teaches
fools so acors i thinks this meens i
dont burn me hand eny more and i
thinks wot a grate sayin this is an how
smart me mother iz an i sez to mese!f
Benny you r a fool.

Armistis Day burned me hand agin
wen I wuz shootin krackerz and |
remembered how me mother sed ekspearents teachus fools and i sez to meself
eyethur me mother iz rong or eyethur
1 aint a fool afteroll,—acors there aint
no. deny in me motherz wurd besize
after wot she lurned it from a preecher
and so its troo ez goss pill. Enyway wen
I grow up im gonna fine out fer me self
duz ekspearyents teach fools or kin
ekspearyents only teach them az iz wize.

   

 

454 BARRINGTON ST., 
  

  

 

Just come in and see what values we have to offer

 

      

E

 

Dr. Harry O’Brien, '27, has returned
to Halifax where he intends to practice
his profession.

# x *

Dr. McKay Hamilton and Harold
Robertson, '27 are doing post graduate
work at the Crile Clinic, Cleveland,
Ohio. ee

Leo A. Doyle, who finished his law
course at Dalhousie last year was
admitted to the bar of Nova Scotia on
Tuesday, Nov. 15. He will leave
shortly for Windsor, Ont., where he
intends to practice his profession.

Derick McCarthy, B. Se., ’24, who
has been doing post graduate work in
geology at Harvard University has
been awarded a University scholarship
in geology by that institution. Mr.
McCarthy will receive his Master's
degree in science th is year.

Found at last a marvel Whac?
Why a Freshman who has
pinned on the wall opposite his
bed: ‘Only negative propositions
distribule their predicates,”'

This Freshman has learned
more than Scotch Jokes. We
venture to say he’s the only
one in capativity. |

* * *

Dr. Daniel Wood, ‘27,

in Summerside, P. E. I.
x * *

is practising

Dr. George Hatfield, '27, has taken
up residence in Yarmouth, N. S., where
he is carrying on his profession.

* * *

Dr. Elizabeth Thurrott, Dal. '22, is
superintendent of a large hospital in
Johnsi, India.

x * *

Students at Dalhousie, who are contemplating the purchase of personal
greeting cards for the current Christmas
season are advised to see Harold Weir
Class 31, who has designed an appropriate and distinctively Dalhousie Greeting Card. One of the cards has been
on display in the Arts Building for the
past few days and much favourable
comment was passed on its design and
moderate price. The front of the
card is simply designed with a Dal
Crest featuring, the inside left contain
three nicely mounted views, the Dal
Library, the Science Building and the
Arts Building. On the inside right,
the Greeting and the students name and
Class, are neatly printed. We think
the design worthy of praise and recommend the students to see Mr. Weir
before they select their Cards for the
year.

x * *

Absent minded professor No. 297385:4
‘‘Dear me, here it is Wednesday the
night of the Shirreff Hall dance and I
forgot to take out the same girl on
Monday and Tuesday”. "

———-_ >_> ____——_—_—_—
THE MORNING AFTER THE
NIGHT BEFORE

 

Comfortable on a library chair,

Well hidden from his neighbors’ stare
And far away from these swinging doors
A student sits with a book and snores.
He deems it tactful and discreet

To let the fleeting moments fleet

And, though he would disdain to shirk
A piece of really pressing work,

He's freely willing to admit

He rarely goes in search of it.

His friends all say you could not find
A boy who is more true and kind

And less obsessed with foolish fads,
Providing—this he always adds—
That no unfortunate mishap

Disturbs his after breakfast nap.

The bell now goes, and all too soon,

For he has lectures now ‘til noon.

He had a date the night before

And didn’t get in until two or more.

And then he had to review for a quizz;

That is the evil of not owning a Lizz

And unfortunately missing the last car
home,

Causing our friend to rage and foam

As with muttered words I can’t repeat

He reaches at last his present retreat,

And having firmly barred the door

He flings his hat upon the floor,

And settles down to his heavy task

Wondering what questions the Prof. will
ask.

So who, I ask, can grudge the chap

The consolation of a nap.

—M. Butler

    

VIOLIN OUTFITS

And Stringed Instruments Of Every Discription——

 

 
   
    
  

e

      

or.’ y iary. '
— [ { y ig
1 ws i
4 - F ‘
® ‘ { 7 i
tA ee iii
H i if GE»
hy . *
" ian fi
7 * '
¥ i
h '

? :
AL
aay; rh / -_
i ,
= F = =

'
v

No. 5674293

 

iplors east of
onty then out
 
 

ER CLEOR ATS ATE
SHOWS OVERCOAT

     
  
 
  
   
  
   
   

 
     

fine

,

  

take a tri

   

 
  
    
  
 
  

   
  
  
 
   

I] Phone S. 3830 for appointment.

__ | TREWOOD BROS CO,

Limited way, but withal the kindl

5
Peg

        

 
 
  

  

—— =

| Small Musical Instru|| ments and Victor Records

. na ; We invite you to join our
| FICTION LENDING LIBRARY
e @ 2 cents per day

| McDonald Music Co.

$93Barrington St. Halifax

for just about five minutes.

 
    

| the ever practical Dick.

       
 
     

hustle and a bustle as you never saw.

CHAPTER 5

          
   

      
 
 

 
 

morning, ‘‘we'll
way. Are you ready, Tom?”

   

gag in the first place.

     
     

 
     

 

he Greatest Asset of a business is to give customers
what they want—when they

    
     
   
   

     
  

=

  
   
 

eee) ,
oe = F -s
al sae fn yi

cl

2,

a a

always delivered when
promised at the

1 Nova Print Limited
| 227-229 Hollis Street
One Block North of Post Office

field some of the boys were looking at
a barber pole through the biggest
microscope our heroes had ever seea,
ahead of them, a gentleman, who looked
||} as though he were old enough to know
better, was walking down the road
with a little toy boat under his arm.
i} PHWEESH!!! GRRRRRRR'!!! The
/| peace was shattered. A sky-blue Ford
came speeding down the drive, with the
noise of a train-load of empty gasoline
eans falling through a tin roof. Harry
and Dick leapt for the ditch like
startled kangaroos, Dr. Merriwell, with
agility admirable for a gentleman of his
age, threw himself into Tom's arms, the
gentleman with the toy boat dived
gracefully into the bushes. Peace and
quiet reigned once more.

The gentleman with the toy boat
extricated himself from the bushes.
“Excuse me, gentlemen,” he called
after the car,“* but cannot the undergraduate mind employ itself in a better
ashion than plotting schemes to annoy,
perhaps maim, who knows, harmless
| pedestrians? May I ask, Mr. Macdonald, if you have to wrap a cold towel
around your head or drink strong
coffee, to think of these schemes?”

“Gee, Dick,” said Harry, “that bus
was going.”

“Yes,” cut in Tom, with a wink at
Dr. Merriwell, it certainly ‘blue’, and
the boys awoke the students in Professor
Stewart’s class with their laughter.

‘*T wonder where we go, now?” asked
Dick, seriously, as they came up the
steps to the main campus.

“We'd best go in and see the president,” suggested Dr. Merriwell.

“Good old Prexy”’ said Harry and
Dick fervently. They were instantly
mobbed by some boys who were sitting
on the Library steps and warned never
to use that expression again.

CHAPTER $13.48

“

   

 

a 7
Se a

 
 

        
    
     
 

 

 
     

| ‘Dalhousie and Commerce
| Society Crested Mote
Paper X& Envelopes

 
        
 

  

/ 4 Nae 4 4 eee eo

— F Sherifé Hall Wand-tinted

rained pictures,—and Ehristmas Cards 6

         
   
   
  
 
   
 

ie ’

391 Barrington St.
Order pour Ch istmas Greetings now

  

    

      
     
    

 |YOUR BARBER!

| CENTRAL—The nearest Barber

      

Shop to the College.

SERVICE—Always four experianced barbers in attendance.

| SATISFACTION GUARANTEED

    
        
    
  

For Ladies

| A. PUBLICOVER

23 Spring Garden Road

    
 

 

   

The Rolles were ushered into the
President's office. A tall, courtly gentleman rose to meet them. ‘‘How do
you do?” ‘You'd like to see Dalhousie?”
“Why certainly. There is the Arts
Building over there, the Science Building there, and this building is the library. We have volumes of space here.”

“Yes’’, agreed Tom, ‘‘Einstein’s theory
books 1 and 2.”

The President smiled tolerantly at the
lad. ‘‘You will find the various students of the University at work in the
classrooms. Please feel quite free to
visit any that you wish.”’

“Thank you extremely, it is indeed
kind of you, but, as one educational
man to another, could you tell me where
the cloak-room is? We wish to leave
our hats and coats there.”

The President shuffled, uneasily.

“Well I think perhaps it would be
best to take them with you. I regret
to say that the cloak room is really not
a very satisfactory place to leave clothing.”

      
    

    
   

   
 

 

   

| All Dalhousie Students
ll especially the Book Lovers
fi] are cordially invitedto make

| THE BOOK ROOM
ff 141 Granville Street
their Headquarters

       
       
       
    

 

       

Come in and browse and
make yourself at home.

E. VICKERY, Manager.

_ || MACLEOD, BALCOM,

    
     
   
 
     
     
     

 
 

         
     
 

 
 

       
     

   

 

yp ht enleahoae : “My uncle left ee clothing in a
_  . ee 1 | will,” said Tom, merrily, ‘‘we might
ee. ites yo Sc. vee ease | | try that.” And laughing happily the
if Cor. Quinpool Rd. and Oxford St. ) little band set out on their tour of DalHALIFAX, N.S. } | housie.
——'

CHAPTER 64.

    

| “Let's try the Arts building first,”
|| suggested Dr. Merriwell. ‘i?
: he boys, led by their principal,

e i]
| , L - .
me || climbed up the granite steps and stepped
| into the hall. Through the doors of a

_| DAL-HOU-SIE

Note Books, class-room came a muffled voice: “....
because the Scotch are so slow to see a
joke, that they very often burst out
ughing three months later. He-he heh'”
|| Laughter followed.
}| ‘Come on in here,” said Harry, ‘this
sounds interesting. They opened the
||| door. Avclass was in session. Standing
by the black-board was a red-faced
|, professor bursting with laughter. The
|| class were laughing heartily with him
}| | —particularly those under the professor's

| | eye. pk 5
) “T am Dr. Merriwell,” said Dr. Merr
; ? i‘ C Allen « Co. | iwell,’’ and these boys are Harry Rollo,

, Text Books,

N Waterman’s Fountain Pens,

 

      
   
 

| Loose Leaf Books and Refills‘

     
     

| By Biology Pads, Stationery, etc.

  
  
 

  

$e

   

         

 
 

Dick Rollo, and Tom Rollo."’
“My name's Stewart,” said the

 
 
  

126 Granville Street mde ce,
: =| antly, Sootch 7 Our ms i:

   
  
    
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

LLO BOYS AT DALHOUSIE,
TOM NEARLY LOST

“Well boys,”’ said Dr. Merriwell, one
sunny morning, “I've got a sur| prise for you; once a week we're going to
1! » to Dalhousie to study Canadian methods of education, we make
our first trip to-morrow.’’ And with
these words the kindly old gentleman
‘ff |sat down, only to arise quickly as he
‘f| felt the tack which Tom had cleverly
concealed on the chair beforehand.
‘| Tom would have his little joke, and was
always catching poor Dr, Merriwell this
old gentleman could not help but love the boy
and wish that he were his own son—

“Well we'd better get ready," said

Then the boys rushea off to get their
| things for the trip, and there was such a

“Come on boys,” said Harry the next
have to get under

“No, I’m Reddy's brother,” chuckled
Tom and everyone laughed, except
Mr. Corey Ford, who had invented the

Seon the boys were speeding along
through the pleasant countryside and,
before long, they found themselves outside the gates of Dalhousie University.
Ahead of them lay the winding drive,
lined with stately oaks that led to the
college huildings; through the green of

the trees they could see the solid, greyfy. iP want wt. crass ane. Everything was an
~ FEJOB AND SOCIETY PRINTING I trees, trom tne fost tall eld cone the

thud of a weil-booted punt, in another

  
 

Latin 1

 
  
  

1 ee rasbpiilinteestll dani Agr Ghana ain deaaanmamaeeirann eS ee
Ae Sat Ley bk ome
r Smt Wage We ee we am. 2
oa Sees a |
ya ; = + ;
: ie es
P ’ . 4 mie al?
ms vr an “ hen j », a. ,
f Y 7 F

Lateral

  

; DAL vs SERVICES
(Continued from Page 1)

ressed and should have

 
 
  

 

   
  
  
  
 
 
 

 
 

half. Dal
gone over long before they actually
did. Ort Hewatt was playing a whale

“No, CERTAINLY NOT!" the prof-essor exploded and made a leap for the
worthy doctor, who had just time to
dodge out the door, unharmed.

‘The boys, not a bit upset, resolutely
tried a smaller room. Here the class

of a game at this stage and made many
long gains for Dal with his running and
kicking. George Langstroth was also
working hard and scored Dal's second
try when the scrum got the ball to the
half line and George carried it over to

was of much smaller size than that of|place it directly behind the posts
Professor Stewarts’. A mild looking|after a fast run. Wickwire again conlittle man, in a gown, was talking|verted. Dalhousie’s final try came

earnestly to the class.

“Now the only way that you'll ever
master the subject is to know the
fundamental rules. ‘We'll take a few
declensions,”’

_ “Pardon me sir, I hope we don’t
intrude,” said Dr. Merriwell,” but
these are Tom, Dick and Harry Rollo,
and | am their principal. We're from
Merriwell High.”

“Yes,” said Dick seriously, ‘and we
love our Alma Mater, don’t we boys.”

“Oh yes,” said Tom slyly, “It’s not
the school we mind, it’s the principal
of the thing.”” This caused a big laugh
you may be sure.

“While we're here,” said Harry,
‘‘we'd better try a little of the work.”

“Very good,’’ said the professor,
“Mr. Rollo, Tom Rollo, will you be so
good as to decline ‘‘thura’”’.”

“I'm sorry,”’ said Tom, “but it's all
Greek to me.’ And the building shook
with the laughter and stamping of the
class.

“Look'” cried Harry, ‘‘what’s this?”
“It's the next chapter,”’ said Dick.

CHAPTER 69

a few minutes later when Kelly Mclean
crossed the line after receiving the
ball from Dunlop who had taken a pass
from Langstroth. The try was not
converted. The Services failed to threaten the Dal line forthe remaining
minutes of play and the Tigers were
forcing the play as the final whistle
sounded. The line-ups:

Dalhousie Fullback: McLeod;
Three Quarters: H. Sutherland. A.
Sutherland, Hewatt, Tupper; Halves:
Langstroth, Mclean, Wickwire; Forwards: A. Smith, Irving, Dunlop, Scott,
F. Smith, Townshend, Campbell.

United Services — Fullback: McDonald; Three Quarters: Williams,
Cowley, Wurtle, MacDonald; Halves:
Thompson, Gilhen: Forwards: John.
stone, Story, Caldwell, Donald, Hope,
Mitchell, Rhodes, Richardson?

Referee: Norman Ralston.

—_—

MacLEOD
or
“THREE CHEERS FOR MacLEOD

Swirling and swerving,

Agile and unnerving,
Straight running or curving,
Is that try allowed?

Pride of the bleachers,

Pride of the teachers,
Example of preachers—
‘Three cheers for MacLeod!”

_ “Yes, yes, I know,” said Harry
impatiently, ‘‘but what's all the noise.
ook, I see; it's Dan Baxter”

“Yes,” cried Professor Nicholls,"
and he’s running away with two of the
college’s jokes.”

Professor Stewart came running in.
“Are they two of my jokes?’ he asked
excitedly.

_‘No,” Professor Nicholls reassured
him, “two of the college's jokes, Kelly
Morton and Henry Godsoe.”’

“What are we to do?” wailed Dick,
hopelessly.

But just then the faithful battleship
Oregon came steaming up the campus;
sturdy hands seized Dan and released
his prisoners. Then, as “Old Glory”
went flying to the mast-head, the commander ascended the deck.

“Three cheers for the Rollo Boys!’

Booting the leather,

In all kinds of weather;
Light as a feather,

Doing the proud.

Pride of frat brother,

Fear of the mother,

Ne’er such another—
‘Three cheers for MacLeod!”

Serene and unsmiling,
Craity, beguiling,

The scoring up-piling,
The cheers ringing loud.
Handsome and tough,
Polished or rough,

shouted the commander, ‘‘Three cheers This’s no ‘puff’—
for the Rollo Boys” shouted the sailors, “‘Three cheers for MacLeod!”
tossing their funny white caps in the

———$$ GQ __

air and cheering lustily.

The cheers were given with a pound of
tea, and the party broke up everyone
voting it one of the jolliest of the season,
but the story of how the vote was
“fixed” will be related in the next volume to be entitled,

“The Rollo Boys in a Permanent
Institution, or How Tom Took Up

”?
*

Miss Josephine Selma Dresner, B. A.,
incumbent of the vice-presidencies of the
Law and Debating Societies has accepted
the office of secretary for the Maccebeans. Miss Dresner’s legal training
makes her a very capable executive
As vice-president of the Maccabeans
last year Miss Dresner was a very
popular hostess at many enjoyable
entertainments at her home.

And here let us say Good-bye.
“Good-bye.”

GLEE CLUB PROGRAMME

MONDAY NIGHT

 

 

 

The following program will be presented at Glee Club, Monday
Nov. 21.

1. Johnny Budd and His Glee Club Orchestra.

2. The Impertinence of the Creature
MMR ely rey eri Bh i Rt Jean Morton.
pe OT OCR Ea a oe (Oe eae a TO Charles Allen
ap asnees ernie ep Pe a Claire Murphy
accompanied by Jean Shaw
4. THEGOAL

—A Dramatic Fragment—

By Henry Arthur Jones

CAST
Sir. Stephen Famariss........2-.2...-s............... Maurice Mac Kinnon
ieee cee ee ee 8)  Shetla Melfanus
Se tntaemi rang) oto 2c Es Me ee, Fred C. Jennings
PI ee ee Ca ie wh bee eked ee eoeonard Parmer
Pegey POVeMmo ti a lu Mary Currie
Penman ret en did Ss Be Ne B.F. Miller

The Scene is laid in a living-room in the London residence of Sir
Stephen Famariss.

The attention of the audience is called to certain prophetic
statements made by a character in this play. Although produced
in a modern atmosphere it was written in 1897 ; the significance of the
words that Mr. Jones put in the mouth of his character is now fully
apparent. }

Produced and Directed by Arthur L. Murphy.

5. A Few Minutes of Music, with
K. Hagen, Venor Trites and Ken. Smith

6. Dora Comes To Shirreff Hall
by R. S. Morton and W. G. Allen

CAST
Bare A Santa te ir Oanetteinb hl 4 bie a a ?
Pemoeraent, Wan LA Boe ea PA) ?
Sheila Studley

Freda Forrest

SCENE—A Room, Shirreff Hall
Time—The Fall of 1928.

GOD SAVE THE KING
TEAR THIS OUT

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

  

 
 

 

ee ee oe ae ——< a P
: 7 . (<3 eae
y Wan : ei
° ¢ ; es ew
* i i
Page Three

 

-—
~~

  
 
  
   
  
   
  

REFLECTION:
-what if you clo bring
the unexpected! guast
home to dinner and the

wife gives you the icy glare
| “YOu Can, always say to

pov

958

ys

   

25 fer 35°

ee eee

|

 

Winters-Burns Ltd

Exclusive Agents for

   
  
  
   
 

makes our Low Price
Doubiy Attractive

SUITS, OVERCOATS
FULL DRESS and
TUXEDO , at one

price

Society Brand Clothes

Now Showing New Fall Styles
°*
Correct Dress for Students

437 BARRINGTON STREET

 
 

OD A ic
MADE-TO-MEASURE
Tip Top Tailors
THE STUDENTS’ TAILORS

TRAMWAY BUILDING
Barrington and Sackville Sts

YOUNG MENS HATS
SPECIAL PRICES

Equal to 20% discount

 

This week at

Frank Colwell Ltd.

417 Barrington Street

     

LAMPS AND SUPPLIES |

FARQUHAR BROS, LTD.

Barrington Street

   

:
|
| STUDENTS’ ELECTRIC |

   

  

 

NEW ! 7
ovheBaokol Vides Thee lt ntisimas. Cards
BY Why send your money out of
ARCHIBALD MacMECHAN town for Christmas Greeting
PRAISE OF NOVA SCOTIA cards when you can _ select
: trom the finest assortment in

 

the City — atthe ROSS PRINT
| SHOW ROOM.

ea Monster
NURSERY

1088 to 1090 Barrington St.
—THREE PHONES.-—

Cut Flowers, Bouquets and all
Floral Work.

Prompt and efficient Service.

We give away Bridge Score Cards.

The RossPrint Ltd

Argyle St.

 
   
  
    

Tel. S. 1958

 

|i Tuxedo’s—

A visit to our Salesrooms will

convince you of the outstanding values we have to offer

| you, at the lowest prices in the

city.

Our Tuxedos now priced at
$24.50
Dress Vests $6.50 & $7.50

Robinson’s Clothes Ltd.

444 Barrinston St.
Opp. Roy Building ; ;
“Walk Up Stairs and Save Ten

 
 

 

———Ses —
lFYou Want To See Weut |
SEE WALLACE

OPTONETRIST AND OPTICIAN
Y.M. C. A. BLDG. HALIFAX, N.S

“SAY IT WITH
CHINA, CUT GLAsS
AND SILVERWARE”

Gifts selected from our showing of high-class China, Cut
Glass, Hollow Silverware, and
Community Plate ‘make useful

Say tt with Flowers, Say it with ours
THE HOME OF

Cut Flowers< Potted Plants

We make up Funeral Designs,
also Wedding Bouquets. We also
do Table Decorating. We are the
only members of the T. F, D. Florists. We can wire Flowers to
all parts of the world.

Che Rosery

8 BLOWERS ST.
Phone Sac. 3321-3322
Night Phone Sac. 1934

    
   
   
   
   
      
     

and appreciative gifts, for the
Bride, the Home or for the
Anniversary.

 
     
 
 

Webster, Smith Co.

LIMITED
Direct Importers

174-176 Granville Street, at
Buckingham Street

Halifax, N. S.

  

PROGRAMMES
and other JOB PRINTING

receive our special attention

The ROYAL PRINT & LITHO Ltd.

 

COLLEGIANS!!!
SATURDAY NIGHT DANCE

MASONIC HALL, 9 to 12 p.m.

Joe Mills and his Orchestra |

Irresistible Rhythm— Harmony Galore
Ladies 35c. Gentlemen 50c. |

 

s oo =
  
   
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
   

rs had a few more
d and Ort Hewat

ould
- great

Sie Art Sutherland
ces

the game was, on the

‘tire \ ese two
ae ee liven up a
who saw the game. y
McLean and George Langstroth also

worked hard and deserved their trys.
Kelly certainly put new life into the
: pp y geram in the second half: the action

  

 
    
 
   
  
 
  
  

neup during half time was one of the

few bright features of the game. It was

_--~—-—s @nily too obvious to the spectators that
Capt. Tupper wasn’t the right man for

the three quarter line. Kelly also

au dl up to'better advantage on the
i yas a line than he had on the half
e.

i
TOMORROW'S GAME

Although the Tigers were the favourites
at the beginning of the season the betting seems to have shifted considerably
~ and the Reds are backing their gridiron
stars to win. The Sackville Street
warriors have certainly improved with
playing, in fact their showing on paper
T.* seems to indicate that they are stronger
Bee « than the Tigers and should therefore
capture the championship. Despite this
we are of the opinion that Dal can trim
the Wanderers any day in the week if
they play their best and get anything
-like real support from the students.
We don't believe in shouting ‘College
Spirit’ in the ears of the Dal student
body every chance we get but we
certainly believe that, if the Dalhousie
supporters fight as hard for a win
to-morrow as the team does, the Gold
and Black willtriumph overthered stockings and carry to Vancouver with
them, not only the championship, but
the proud record of an ane wet

 

—

ie
—

 

conclusion of the regular games of the
city football league, our thoughts naturally turn to basketball. The prospects
for a championship quintette from the
University this season are exceptionally
bright with three regulars and two
spares of last year’s team available. _
_ The Gold and Black this winter will
be without the valuable services o
Ed. Brown, Don Cox and Rex Moore
who turned in splendid performances
at center, forward and guard respectively last year but these vacancies will
be capably filled by several promising
recruits who are turning out at the
regular practices held Tuesday and
_ Thursday in the gym. ’

Among the new arrivals at the University this term are Ray Fraser, excaptain of the ‘‘St. F.-X.” squad and
Cheeseman who occupied a berth last
winter on the team. Both of
a these men have enviable reputations as
5 _ ball tossers. :

h Among the local talent turning out
Ee reguiarly are George Langstroth, George
MacLeod, Clyde Sperry, Charles Jones,
Ab Smith, Cutie Smith, Tom Parker,
: Donald MacRae, Paul Doyle, Suds
7 Wilson, Nickerson, Goudge, I,ee Miller,
ae Matheson, Prince, Hughie Ross and
é } Aubrey Tupper.

F: BASKETBALL
i
r With the first fall of snow and the

 

Interfaculty

The standing of the Inter
- faculty Rugby League to date
‘ is as follows—
| L: D Pe.

| Dentistry....

 

. The Newman Club will hold a dance

H next Wednesday night in the Knights

be of Columbus Hall. A good time is

E expected.

——__—__e_—___.

LEIGH MILLER WINNING ANOTHER RACE

COMMERCE MEN BACK RUNNER
IN POPULARITY CONTEST

nah age

~

 

foal

 

 

=e

k _ Leigh Miller is running a great race
‘ay in the Majestic Theatre’s Popularity
P wi contest. Backed by the Commerce boys
a) he received over 8,000 votes last week.
on Are you supporting your man? Clip
tie | ee the coupon trom the Majestic Theatre’s

\ advt. in the Dalhousie Gazette and
Bs " vote to-night.

py

Revie, Batok Milles, oh. y cae 8600
Meas Belly Macheatt.. 5... 5... cme.: 5150
eR AMES SEINIERE conn 2s ccs caiele es vig 1550
hee) Retmker Murphy. ........ hae oie 1000

SOS 62-459. 0:6 € Ce? Oo woo € 8

Sb" Ope O14) ad) 8.0) « C:Q eile

  
       

A© © ete eee Fed a4 4 a! ave & 6

Sec as eet etara ee dv@es

ee © aia es 6. eed 4; Sere e ¢ 6

et @ ee ewe eee ee

a+. 2 B18) ee we Oe 6 «

 
  

“NOTICE!
Special Students! ‘Discount

CONDONS
‘ Mans store

   
  

Meds and Lawyers
| _ are Highliners

The break in the Inter-faculty rugby
schedule caused by the rather life-like
sample of winter pressed upon us by the
weather man seemed however to have
excellent effect upon the gladiators, who,
refreshed by the layoff came back this week with a bang to
give the rail-birds plenty of excitement.
and Law, who are fighting it
jout for the top position were the winners in two interesting matches. On
Monday the doctors nosed out the
Engineers when they went across for a
lone try late in the second half to win
3—0. The following day Law and
Arts staged a gruelling battle featured
by excellent tackling and the thrilling
Arts tallied
first on a field goal, or four points, and
ended the opening session with that
lead, but Law fighting hard pushed
over a try close to the posts, in comfortable position for the kick at goal, which
i The goal put
them in the lead 5—4, and although
Arts were menacing, the closest game
of the series ended shortly afterward

. aon Dal coaches in changing the

a Se oe ee ee 8 1 ee
— — — - .

iy Ce a ie ear ; ah
ee a ep lee ny #Y,
te Ny Te os es Be Pa
' (yn om J
> wf * ‘

\

fi an
ae

 

quite evidently

- Meds

closeness of the score.

was easily successful.

without further scoring.

 

Vancouver Again

Editor Da'thousie Gazette:-—

 

Dear Sir:—Now that the proposed
coast to coast football trip is no longer
a mere possibility but is practically
assured, at the suggestion of several
I would like to

prominent students.
place before those concerned a proposal,

that the basketball team accompany

the football team in their trip west.

This plan is rendered all the more
feasible due to the fact that four of the

present football team are regular mem
bers of the basketball team, and also

because at the present time our team
are the holders of the Halifax city league
title and consequently would prove a
great drawing card in games with the
other Canadian colleges.

The extra expense necessary to carry
out the proposal would be negligable
as the additional gate receipts would
more than compensate the cost of taking
three additional players.

The prospects of a banner basketball
team this year are exceedingly bright
as last year’s team is practically intact,
and I feel assured that if the few additional names necessary could be added
to the list of those slated to make the
trip, and that if a series of games be
arranged at convenient centres that the
outcome would be successful both as a

f pens proposition and as an aid in

efraying the expenses of the tour.

Thanking you for space,
Sincerely

G. K. MacIntosh,
Basket Ball Manager.

May Be

Maybe, perhaps, in days to come
We'll have a new gymnasium

With fixtures fine and swimming tank
And many graduates to thank

Yea, doubtless, sure the day will come
But it is being feared by some

That when the New Gym incubates,
"Tis we who'll be the graduates.

 

 

 

THE SONG SHOP LTD.
for ANYTHING in

MUSIC

22 Spring Garden Rd.
Halifax, : : Canada

Bob Johnson’s
TWO BOBBER SHOPS
FIRST CLASS SERVICE

The Home of the Shingle

MAJESTIC THEATRE
BUILDING

AND
Cor. GEORGE & BARRINGTON
STREETS

Don’t Neglect Your Appearance

     
     
    

 

 
       
   
   

YELLOW CAB
LIMITED
SAC. 4444

Halifax’s Only Metered
Service

Same Rates 24 Hours.
Two travel for same as one.
More than two, 20 cents extra.

 

 

CLASS
JEWELLERY

We enjoy the distinction of
making practically_all Dalhousie

Class Jewellery.

We appreciate the trust placed
in us by the Dalhousie students
and in turn always assure them
of our very best service.

HENRY BIRKS & SONS
LIMITED

‘Diamond Merchants HALIFAX

 
 

ba

5 24. Av - u
ek ee

ere — Ae ae 7 ugh ;
eee ee

Ser

yey heer.!
7 pay

   
 
 

 

  

 

To Editor of the Gazette.

Dear Sir;—-A paper, requesting that
a certain sum be deducted from their
caution deposits and donated to the
War Memorial Fund is being handed
abeut among the students tee those
to sign who so wish. This paper should
be returned unsigned. Unfortunately
however, the world is full of signers.

To erect a war memorial is but to hold
up before the people the doctrine that
one of man s highest ambitions ought to
be to die for his country. —
The human mind is fruitful ground
for this propaganda. The deep-rooted
LEASE hero” complex—‘‘he suffered
wrongfully for this or that’’—rapidly
devours this sustenance, spreads its
tentacles through the mind and_perverts and paralyzes the norma! instincts of self-preservation. All that
then remains is to stir up the dormant
sadistic instinct (that which makes
boxing and football ‘“‘fans’’ act like
lunatics) and at the first call of war the
whole nation will burst into a martial
hysteria, We see to what length this
slaughtering one another for the sake
of “‘honor and right"’ can be carried,
in the former French dwelling hysteria.
It is dying out. Can we not at least
make an effort to start war along in its
wake? Can we not substitute common
sense in place for hysteria and learn to
control our temper more sanely?

Surely it would be a beginning if the
world could be. made to realize that
when they go to war they are only dragging one another into the juggernautical sausage grinder and the product will
be only an indiscriminate, gory, mess of
catmeat. It is only a matter of sentiment whether one speaks of a million
fallen heroes or a hundred thousand tons
of carrion. And no one aspires to be
carrion meat.

As the coming intellectual leaders of
the country, the college students should
not merely passively realize these things.
but instead we should be quite frank and
open about our views, and not be carried
along with the dead (in every way)
weight of public opinion, Let us make
known our conception of war—why
not have a memorial like this:

A large granite block, one one face
a Canadian soldier posed for a bayonet
charge, and the inscription, ‘‘They died
that men should live.”” On the opposite face, a German soldier, (Not an
Attilian caricature, but a human being),
in the same posture, and the inscription,
“They died for the glory and rights of
the Fatherland.” On the third face,
a broad deep trench stretching into the
distance, filled with mangled corpses
of all nationalities and beside it, a throng
of mothers, widows and orphans (of all
nationalities) gazing down on the maggoty, one-time lords of creation; by
way of inscription, ‘‘They Died.”

On the fourth face would be the
‘Good Shepherd,’ standing, with a
flabbergasted look on his face, in the
midst of a multitude of dead sheep and
gazing askance at the shepherd of one
of the flocks, who stands with arms

and eyes upraised to heaven in sanc
timorious triumph, meanwhile grinding the head of the other shepherd
into the mire beneath his heel.

Can some one suggest the inscription?

. a

  

SAVE MONEY!

ON YOUR LOOSELEAF
SUPPLIES—SEE

FRANK M. O?NEILE

& CO., LTD.
152 Granville Street

  

Complete stock ot Loose Leaf
Books, Refills, Pencils Pens, etc.

BUTTONS ON
RENTS MENDED
HOLES DARNED

That’s the service you get
free when you send YOUR
Laundry to Ungar’s.

VALETERIA

A new pressing Service:
Your Suit or Overcoat
Steam Cleaned and Pressed, for 75c or 4 Tickets
for $2.00,

NECKTIES cleaned 10c.

UNGAR’S

DYEING
VALETERIA

Barrington St.,
Sack 428

LAUNDERING
CLEANING

George F, Power
Cigars Cigarettes, Tobaccos

SMOKERS’ REQUISITES
of every Description.

—Also—

Cards, Souvenirs of Halifax

Majestic Bldg.
HALIFAX 
 

a = ™ = ’ — .
te Brive , r r —" aT aan
\ ¥ Al 7 ‘y . : * a ie a ‘ mys
wy ‘ Lb oer ne -," SE Ye de : MPP A hoe” iy
. . ,+) 4 7
‘ : ?

PRICEGORE?| Undoubtedly

  
  
        
       
       
      
   
   
  

It was a scorching hot day and I had
gone up into the mountains to try to get
cool. [ had settled myself on a ledge of
rock overlooking the great stretch of
sand known as Death Valley. Suddenly the sharp noise of horse’s hoofs on the
baked crust of the sand broke the silence.
I reached for my binoculars and turned
them in the direction of the sound. A
man on horseback rounded a projecting

iece of rock below me. At a motion
rom the man the panting horse came toa
standstill. The man took out his
handkerchief and mopped his face.
Then he stood up in the stirrups and,
shading his eyes with his hand, looked
towards the western horizon. Having
evidently decided the question of direction, he settled himself in the saddle and
dug his spurs into the horse. The
animal started off, his hoofs making a
queer hollow sound on the sand. I
could see the man leaning forward on the
horse’s neck encouraging the beast to
make the best speed he could. I watched them until the sound of the horse's
hoofs had died away and the horse and
his rider had become mere specks in the
distance, lonely figures riding towards
the setting sun. I lowered my binoculars and then came to the conclusion
that the man was undoubtedly going
some place. ae

a te

“THE COUNTRY DOCTOR”? Coming

 

Rupert Julian’s splendid production
of ‘‘The Country Doctor,”’ said to be
one of the best rural picture dramas
produced since ‘Way Down East,”
will be the big feature at the Casino
theatre next Monday, Tuesday and
Wednesday. Rudolph Schildkraut, Junior Coghlan Virginia Bradford and other
noted screen players are featured.

To readers of
The Dalhousie Gazette

we recommend

Kinley’s

THE: REXALL
DRUG STORE

For everything in
Drug Store Needs

499 Barrington Street
Phone Sack. 61

 

TUR re ero Rn Seam

 

For 60 years the REACH Trade
Mark on Sporting Goods has been
a mark of perfection. No matter
what your favorite sport may be, we
can supply you with equipment that
will help you play the game with
the best that’s in you.

CRAGG BROS. CO. LTD.

Hardware and Sporting Goods
HALIFAX, N. S.

   
 

Globe Laundry Ltd. |

50 Buckingham Street

G. W. SPRAGUE, Vice-Pres. |
C. W. SPRAGUE, Pres.

The College Students’ |
| Laundry

Telephone S 714

 

 

 

 

As Usual

The best in Ice Creams, Confectionery and Meals, as well!
as courtesy, efficent service and
attractive surroundings are to
be had at

The Green Lantern

HE PRINTING DE
PARTMENT of the
Imperial Publishing Co.,
Limited, is famous for
the quality of its press
work, on Booklets, Catalogues, and all kinds of
Job Printing.

Telephone Sackville 1017

PO CO a, Sn TREE | felt a
“ eT 41 a f

   
 
   
   
   
  
    
   
       
   
   
   
   
   
   

A a a a

in
uu

November, 18th, 1927

“TWO ARABIAN NIGHTS” }
COMING TO ORPHEUS

“Two Arabian Knights’ explodes
laughter that will be heard round the
world. —

Imagine two doughboys, ‘Brains and
Good Looks” astray in hgstile territory
during the war, making holiday and
love while fleeing through prison camps
and darkest Arabia—danger and death
on every side.

Imagine them—one a New York
underworld character and the other an
aristocrat from Fifth Avenue—hating
yet aiding each other. And both
smitten with the same girl!

Here is a Colossal Comedy!

THIS FRIDAY & SATURDAY

The College Laugh Cracker!

**THE POOR NUT”
WITH

Charlie Murray and
Jack Mulhall

       
     
      

First 3 Days Next Week

“THE COUNTRY
DOCTOR ”’

A vibrant story of heroism
WITH
Rudolph Schildkraut, Junior
Cohlan, Sam De Grasse

And a Star Cast

 
   
     
 

Gauvin & Gentzel
Photographers

 
     
 

a

18 Spring Garden Road
Phone Sac. 692

 

|
MON. TUE. WED.

May McAvoy and Malcolm
McGregor

IN
“MATINEE LADIES’’
Romance of a Cigarette Girl
and a ‘‘Gigola’’
THUR. FRI. SAT.
“Two Arabian Knights’’

Story of two prunes who went to the
Orient for Dates and got theirs

 

COLLEGE COLORS

We have a good supply of any
distinctive Dalhousie stationery.

Neat size crest, die stamped in
yellow and black on high class
parchment paper, club size, with
envelopes stamped to match, suitable for ladies or gentlemen.

Sold in bulk only, buy any quantity
you require.

Faulkner’s Book Store
16 Spring Garden Road

 

The
Halifax Chronicle

AND

Che
Halifax Daily Star

The

fastest growing

 

Xmas Cards

Come in and pick them out now
We will hold your selection and
keep them fresh until, you need
them

Correspondence Cards

Wonderful Values at attractive
price

Freeman’s Pharmacy

COR. COBURG and HENRY

       
        
    

newspapers in

 
    

Nova Scotia

    
   

 

Offers
ENGINEERING COURSES

in
CIVIL, ELECTRICAL, MECHANICAL AND MINING
To Dalhousie Students with Engineering Diploma
MODERN EQUIPMENT

if Instructing Staff with Industrial Experience
Tuition Fee $75.00 per year. Twenty-five scholarships of $75.00 each

Write or call for Calendar or advice.

ON, Pres.

COLWELL BROTHERS

Limited
453-457 Barrington Street

MEN’S HATS, CLOTHING, FURNISHINGS
AND LUGGAGE

HIGH CLASS GOODS AT MODERATE PRICES

 

Keep in touch with
your home town—

ersonal news gathered by our army of
correspondents will tell you what is
going on in every hamlet, village and town
in Nova Scotia. Don’t be without a
Herald in the morning. Glance over Nova
Scotia before breakfast.

Read

THE HALIFAX HERALD

MAJESTIC — Mon-Tues & Wed.
“THE WAY OF ALL FLESH”

WITH EMIL JANNINGS

POPULAR COLLEGE ATHLETE CONTEST
In conjunction with the ‘THE COLLEGIANS” at the

MAJESTIC THEATRE
EVERY SECOND MONDAY

a ree a a cited cs pe eplarpenai a aaa es

CURES BC as eancreemeaee iain eae “g
GOOD FOR FIFTY VOTES (50)

When Presented at the Door of the Theatre at any performance.
ALL Male College Students Eligible.

 

   
