    

Pe r ¥ a“
= gS ipl ag:
= Ms ey = ee
; a fe} > I =
; " . E
4 a ro rc
- v i a
7 : ss ye
F : r * _— r ' ,
> - ma Fr
mmonr d a
.* ar
Cs = =
7 ad
4 , “iE a»

   

    

 
 
  

pie, a

The sim

 
   
 

 

La

Tuesday evening the Munro Room

 
  
  

echoed and re-echoed to the voices of the

; rs and the Hillers. The vote

1ined the Negative. The Hallers
iphant! ae ci ri

MacNaught opening for the

eee. “Greetings, greetings from
os ‘ "natural than to drop a nickel or @ smail
fair damsel of the Hall!

  

 
 

  
 
   
 
  
   

 
 
     

fair d May these
‘ordial relations continue alter  to
night!” McNaught then went on to
point out the effect of luxuries: ‘‘People

of simple habits coming into luxurious
- surroundings—like Shirreff Hall are

liable to give vent to their emotions nd
dissipate away their virility in luxurious
Ry  . team :Machiaueht spoke strongly and
proved himself a regular orator. sr
Grace Sutherland rising to defend
her sex impetuously exclaimed: ‘Let
my opponents go to Webster's dictionary
and find the meaning of extravagance!
7 will they dare accuse the Hal

9.4. j

  

 
 

   
     
  
  
  
    
    
   

   

7 *
a

   

   

    
    
     

# : oes _extray t? The Hall
girls are neat not gaudy. The Hall

, Vea Boh ex eveespir® Da Rood taste.
- Qur opponents seem to think weve
ee Pom the back woods. . We're
used to something before we come to

     
    
 
    

en

      
  
 

     

  

‘he luxurious Library breeds
refinement elegance. The at. of good taste and beauty Is to
esired.” Miss Sutherland spoke
Whiteley, Pine Hill: —
scious of fighting a losing
utherland has gone down,

  
 

  

   

 
 

  
  
 
  

  
  

oh airy? oe

h a landlady. Proud Rome
to luxurious living. Luxurious
the Hall will incite these plastic
uds fleeting about like gilded buttes and they too will fall after they
at Den of Luxury.” As an

Tee, - © orator Whiteley ‘takes the cake.”
 *— " Bileen Cam

      
   

 

   
 
  
  
  
 

 
 
 
 
      
  

iS earn “Pine Hill is a
bare desolate place in the back woods.
xt The girls at Shirreff Hall do have budgets. Mr. Whiteley would’ do well to
get a Hall Girl. We do our own washing, our own ironing. We can make
our own lunches. We are not extra-vagant. We are letting our hair grow
in, saving 75 cents a week. Miss Cameron was strong on the rebuttal, ably
rebutting most of the arguments of her
opponents. She invited any gentleman to an inspection of the Hall.

- The meeting was then thrown open
to the audience.

-M. B. MacKinnon: | want to be
the first to avail myself of the kind
invitation of the last speaker. After
listening to the Dithyrambic Panegyric
of the Bintetonie Parsons who painted
such a glowing picture of the Hall I
hasten to accept the offer. If one of
the girls in the Hall gets a fur coat, 200
other little muskrats die. If one of the
Pine Hillers were to introduce a racoon
coat there Maer be a hunting expedition to Africaville. .
ue Smith and Morley Webster
‘then arose and gave enlightening talks
on conditions at the Hall.

M. B. MacKinnon: How about this
a j _ 3. tion?
ak me Cameron: I'll take you to the
reception room, library and outside
hall—that’s as far as any gentleman can
go!’ (great laughter.) ;
. Voice: Miss Lowe will at any time
eu show the Hall to anybody.
i= M. B. MacKinnon: | knew there.

was a nigger in the woodpile! (uproar
per re * Bias canoe)
Duncan MacLellan then arose and
in his usual entertaining manner spoke
on the relative merits of the Hall and

~ Bleanor Chesley: Prof. C. L. Bennett says that utility and the beautiful
3 ih te be sought after. The Hall com
  
  
  

YY . ~

a

   
   
    
    
 
  

these two. ‘
Charles Gavsie: One side has painted

   
 

a, a ‘the Hall as a palatial home; the other
side has called it a plain boarding house.

Prof. Todd is the only man who could
give us an unbi opinion and he's
Dal; Thee. ae will give a true description?
pleaded Mr. Gavsie. |
Monae Growell: B. Com. 1923
vailed himself of the opportunity and
_ spoke very ably. The negative he said
‘strong argument; the affirmative
ed solely on their oratory.
conclusion a vote was taken and
negative emerged triumphant. The

.
- .

ag
ry

       
    
 
 
    
   
    
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
  

rae

in the pay telephone and phone a|

|| doubtful if the losers could have done

counters. Although not as_ brilliant

|| defense were at their best behaviour

player did much tou

‘stays on the ice.

 

 

=.

 

 

ple life is not endangered by four years residence at Shirreff Hall.
ing to rear their daughters in the ways of simplicity may send their
ughters to the luxurious Shirreff Hall without an iota of fear that they will grow
) extravagant: for so the Hallers argued

and so the audience voted.

| Tigers Outplay
Tech 7-1

DALHOUSIE HOCKEY TEAM
SHOWS IMPROVEMENT 
   
    
 
  
  
      
  
    
 
 
    
  
 
 
 
 
   
  
  
   
  
   
 
   

 

 

goal, and the absence of Currie between
the Tech uprights all figured in Dal’s
7—1 win over Technical College last
Thursday evening at the Halifax Forum.
Outplayed throughout the Technicians
were unable to cope with the Tigers at
all and they were never in the picture.
Bernie Currie forsook his usual position
in the net and joined the Tec attacking
squad. Although a hard worker he
would have been much more useful in
his regular position. In any case it is

much better. Dal were out to win and
they did so in a decisive fashion.
Displaying. a marked improvement
the Tigers worked in a very commendable manner and well deserved their
one sided victory. Tom Foley had a
night on and scored five of the Dal

as his two brothers who have starred
for St. Mary’s College the past few years
Tom knows hockey and when in the
vicinity of the opposing goal he is the
most dangerous man on the Dal line
up. Godsoe and MacCunn on the Dal

and the aggressiveness of the former
| pset_the functioning of the Tech squad. Ferguson in the
nets was his usual careful self and didn't have a chance to save Tech’s lone

 

counter. Taylor and Sangster played
their positions in an improved style and

well in their short
he Dal line-up:

oal: Ferguson; Defence MacCunn,
Godsoe; Forwards: Taylor, Foley, Sangster. Subs. Power, MacDuff. Refereree Timmie Hunter.

The first game of the evening found
the Kingsmen giving the Santamarians
their first opposition of the season. They
weren't equal to the task of winning
however and the Saints increased their
lead in the league by winning 6—2. A
fine hour’s skating was enjoyed by the
players and spectators after the last
game. Thursday nights at the Forum
are rapidly becoming popular and a
larger and more enthusiastic crowd is in
attendance each succeeding night. Needless to say the program is well worth the
price of admission.

the subs showed u

 

The Dal girls are giving a contribution
to the Year Book, what will the boys
give?

A NEW THRILL

(A review)

Here, O blase novel readers, ardent
magazine fans, promotors of the Saturday Evening Post, here is a new detective story for you. Of course it is about
the priceless gem, the treasure of an
empress, and a family heirloom, discovered to be missing during an up-todate house party, with titled heroes,
suspected villains, a baffled detective,
all portrayed with breathless interest
by a master-writer. As you read, in
 

stead of following clue after clue down]

blind trails, lured into traps set by the
author to show how clever, how marvellous, is the detecting hero—instead
you watch the characters blundering
round, while to you is confided the
hiding-place of the gem and you sit
back, proudly d of information
which could put them all on the right
track, and best of all, you see the detective, hhaving discovered the missing
jewel quite by accident deliberately
frame up clues that lead to a solution
that makes every one marvel, while
you know that it is a huge joke on all
Sherlocks. It is a most delightful
sensation, making you feel as if you
yourself were gifted with masterful
powers of a detective. However, the
writer holds his own by staging the
action a few years hence, and he thus
brings in quite a bit of clever satire and
mock prophecy, with a touch of seriousness if you bother to feel it. And the
crowning attraction is found in the
whimsical, surprising illustrations, done
by Mr. G. K. Chesterton. Yes, he is a
master of pencil as well as of the pen.
And the book, written by Hilaire Belloc,

| is ‘The Emerals of Catherine the Great.”

—A.M.P,

USIE HOLDS BEST
F HALL INTERIOR
NEFICIAL IS VERDICT

ERESTING SPEECHES PRESENTED AT SODALES
‘TO RECORD CROWD—GOOD TURNOUT

A general all round improvement in
their play, heady work by Tom Foley
when in the vicinity of the opposing

SS

  
   
  
  
    
   
   
  

Debater

Es

 

~

Dalhousie Student

HOWSE ACCLAIMED BEST
- SPEAKER OF EVENING
AT MONTREAL

Jean Duquet, Jean M. Roussel and
Pierre A. Boucher, of the University
of Montreal, who contended that
“sport is carried to excess in Canadian
University life,” so ably defended
their thesis that they were pronounced victors over Hazen Fulon, Ernest
M. Howse and Elbert Paul, members
of the Maritime Universities debating
team, last night, in St. Sulpice hall.

The audience listened for slightly
less than three hours to the six debaters. The judges’ decision was not unanimous. Col. Wilfrid Bovery and Dr.

‘Leo: Pariseau concurred, Dean Mackay

dissenting. Judgment was rendered on
the strength of the resolution itself
and the arguments brought forth.
though it was conceded that the
ablest and most fluent debater of
the evening was Mr. Howse of Dalhousie University. Professor Alexander H. Smith of the School of Higher
Commercial Studies, was in the chair.

Montreal maintained that university
training was a means to an end and
that this end was not perfection of
the body. Undue indulgence in sport
was blamed for many failures at examination time. It was said also that
sport has become Americanized and
commercialized.

These arguments were answered by
the Maritime students, who maintained that a reasonable use is not an abuse
nor an excess, and that facts did not
corroborate Montreal's statements. Resistance, persistency, personal effort,
and co-operation were qualities which
derive great strength from a normal
indulgence in sport. A number of
university officials were quoted to prove
that athletics do not hamper studies.

After decision of the judges, supper
was served at the ‘‘Cercie Universitaire.”

The Maritime Team which defeated
Bishop’s College on Tuesday, will pursue its debating trip throughout Canada, stopping at all universities.

—_—$—$$—$$ $$

HOW ABOUT A
NEW CHEER

The following cheer has been submitted by M. L. K. for the approval
of the students:—

Chickalacka, Chickalacka,
alack, Chan¢!

Boomalacka, Boomalacka, Boomalacka, Bang!

Wickwack, Wickwack, Wickwack,
Whoa!

 

Chic
Gree fol. err douder)
Seu eias, R R R_ (Still louder).
Dalhousie!
Tigers!!
RAH!!!

The old yell that has been used, and
used with great effect at Dal for a number of years stands the test of years and
many would be adverse to its obliteration; but there is no necessity that that
contingency should take place. It is
quite common, in fact, quite the thing
for a cheer leader to bring the stands
to their feet with more than one yell.
“Variety is the spice of life,’’ and a little
variety in the cheers might bring forth
a bit of life from the stands in time of
stress.

The history of the inauguration of the
“U-pie-D”’ yell is interesting. A number of years ago an instructor from the
U.S. A. was engaged by Dalhousie Glee
Club to add to the performances of that
organization. He brought out a parody
on ‘‘Excelsior,” which delineated prominent features of Dalhousie life. The

main strain of the chorus was ‘‘U-pie
dee-I-dey."” The song became a tre
THEATRE NIGHT IN

Impresses Crowd

 

— Official Student Publication at Dalhousie University—

HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA, FEBRUARY 10th, 1928

 

ANNOUNCEMENT

‘‘Priend’s’’ book-prize for the
Odd Verse Competition has been
awarded to Mr. Peter Hebb,
for his contribution printed
below.

 

Stanley Walker
Was a ripping good talker:
Yet on a popularity basis.
One of many sad Cases.

Distinguished Men

SECRETARY OF STATE
FOR DOMINION
SPEAKS

Dalhousie received distinguished visitors last week when Colonel Carnegie
spoke to over two hundred students In
the Chem. Theatre on Tuesday and the
Rt. Hon. Colonel Amery, Secretary of
State for the Dominions, spoke to an
equally large audience there on Wednesday.

After an introduction by Prof. Mercer, Colonel Carnegie speaking on disarmament explained its importance to
us and showed the attitude of the British Nations toward it. At the conclusion of his address he offered to answer any questions on disarmament. A
few students took advantage of the
opportunity.

Following a few opening remarks by
Dr. MacKenzie, Colonel Amery addressed the students on the growth of the
British Empire, dealing more particularly with Canada and her status.
At the conclusion of the address the
students expressed their thanks and
appreciation in a Dal yell.

—P. O. H.

DAL NIGHT MGR.
THANKS HELPERS

The 1928 Dalhousie Students’ The
atre Night, under the direction of the
Council was a decided success I believe
judging from the aftermath of opinion
I have gathered from around the campus. Iam very glad of this because the
few supporters [ had in the management
of the party have worked so hard and
have toiled under such great difficulties.
Reports now show that it was a success
financially, the dance more than paid
for itself and I believe everyone enjoyed
themselves immensely.

First of all I wish to thank ‘‘Barney’
Wellington Archibald, Commerce "30
Ken Smith, Law, ‘‘Mugs’” Fraser, Medicine, Aub Tupper, Dentistry, Mickey
McDonald, Pine Hill for their splendid
support in selling tickets and helping
in a general way towards an enjoyable
evening.

The artists who submitted drawings
for slides deserve great praise for their
work as the slides played a big part in
the evening's entertainment. Donald
McKay, Herbert Davison, Charlie
Harris, S. Bishop, Tom Goudge and
Don Murray all did excellent work in
cartooning. Thanks! rs ae

The Glee Club’s contribution was
perhaps the best of all. Eddie Murray
Jack Zwicker, Rand Matheson,
Morris McKinnon and Graham Allen
provided clever skits which were well
produced and received with a great deal
of laughter.

The Carroll players proved to be a
talented and sporty crowd of actors.
They stood up to the work of the first
act under most trying conditions and
soon actually ‘‘captured’’ a Dalhousie
audience on College Night with a light
comedy.

Mr. and Mrs. Stirling were very kind
to act as chaperones and the Masonic
Hall dance with Joe Mills and his orchestra brought the evening’s fun to a
close.

Gerald Godsoe, Murray Rankin, Doug
Scott and Ray Garber did the lion's
share of work for the Council. Well,
even if only a few worked, they worked
hard and persistently.

I also wish to thank all those who
attended—if you didn’t have a good
time I refuse to take any further responsibility—I am through with managing theatre nights—it has taken 10
years off my young life.

 

 

—Ralph Morton.

 

mendous hit about the campus and
from it developed the yell that we have
at Dalhousie today.

If a yell sponsored by an outsider
has become so popular, is it not probable
that a cheer invented by a student of the
university would ‘‘catch on’’? The
above cheer may not meet with the
approval of the students but at least
it is a sample of the invention of a student. There should be many who can
submit yells. Dalhousie should have

ee ——

a

Visit 1 Dalhousie

gee"
TT

Se)
| eT a

%

    
  

GLEE CLUB PRESENTS
“FILL-IN’” PROGRAM

_The first Glee Club performance
since Christmas was presented in the
Gym on Wednesday, Feb. 1st. The
show was an emergency one made
necessary fy the illness of the leading
lady in what was to have been the
regular program. When due allowance
is made for the brief time in which it
was prepared, there is scarcely a fault
to find.

The program consisted of four chief
features. Muriel Donahoe and Kelly
Morton in a short skit entitled, ‘‘The
Ghost Train”’

Gordon Dustan who gave the audience two poems from Drummond; Miss
Mary Currie who played two beautiful
harp selections and Graham Allen in
an original monologue and song number. The intervals between the- features were filled by moving pictures.

In the first skit both actors acquitted
themselves well. Miss Donahoe as the
flashy actress impatient to get to town
to play in the ‘‘Ghost Train” and Kelly
as the rube station-master. Skit though
the act was, it approached the dramatic
in its burlesque of the station scene in
the ‘‘Ghost Train” the act was a pleasant little one and the revelation at its
climax that the oncoming train was
only Robere MacDonald’s ‘‘Pine Hill
flivver” was hailed by the audience with
great delight.

Gordon Dustan’s rendition of his two
selections from Drummond was very
good and his applause was well merited.
Mr. Dustan is specializing on the works
of Drummond for his M. A. degree and
in his picturesque habitant costume
quite looked the part of a genuine
French-Canadian raconteur.

Graham Allen in his number was
Graham Allen and that’s enough. His
song ‘‘Ice Cream’ was much enjoyed.
Johnny Budd accompanied at the
piano.

Miss Currie’s harp solos were exquisite and much enjoyed by all present.
Miss Currie was received with a burst
of applause and Glee Club hopes to
hear more of this talented young harpist.

Much thanks is due to Mr. Hanifen
of the Censor’s office for his kind loan
of the moving picture equipment, for
without the comedy and travel reels
to fill out the program the emergency
show might have been impossible.

The evening ended with a short dance
the music for which was supplied by
Peter Dowd. The emergency program
Was as much of a success as its short
preparation allowed anybody to expect,
but Glee Club wishes to remind you
don’t forget their next show at which
Forrest Musgrave will present ‘Brothers
in Arms’’ the show will take place as
soon as Miss Hagen the leading lady
recovers from her illness.

—R. A. D.

FLASH!

Glee Club Wednesday

 

MOCK PARLIAMENT
HOLDS SESSION

CONSERVATIVE REGIME IS
SUSTAINED BY HOUSE

The Mock Parliament met again
last Thursday night with the Conservative. Government in harness. The
Nationalists leader J. J. Lysons Atwood
lost.no time in censuring the Rt. Hon.
Alban Farmer for not seeking the assistance of the third party. However the
Liberals refused to join the Nationalists
and the Conservatives remained in power.

The Honorable Members then served
notice of motion for the introduction of
many bills. The Nationalists noticed
the introduction of several astonishing
bills; among others the abolition of
General Average. Telling speeches were
made by Rt. Hon. Alban Farmer, Messrs
Andrew Olding Hebb, Roderick Mac
 

at least one other yell. The Gazette will} Leod, J. J. Powell and B. M. Kelloway
be pleased to receive suggestions for yells | and Albert Walsh.

and will gladly print any that would

The speeches were marked by a great

seem to be of interest to the student; deal of humour and the session ended

body.

with the Conservatives still in power.

 

Theatre night has come and gone, and How!
Wednesday there were no doubts as to its success but the enthusiasm and college
spirit displayed exceeded all expectations.

“Ghost Train” Hit
of Emergency Show

THE OLDEST
COLLEGE PAPER
IN AMERICA

NO. 14

ee es

YEARS

STUDENT BODY OUT
IN FORCE AT STRAND

CONFETTI, SONGS, SKITS AND SLIDES ENLIVEN PARTY
—*COLLEGE SPIRIT AT HIGH LEVEL” SAYS CROWD

 

 

With the house sold out before

oe

 

The rise of the curtain was greeted
so vociferously that for the first five
minutes action on the stage was held
up. Streamers by the hundred, rice
by the pound and beans by the quart
showered down on those unfortunates
in the front orchestra seats. Late
arrivals were hailed with shouts and
fresh showers of streamers and confetti. The house finally settled. down
a little and the play went on. “Take
My Advice” was a clever little plot and
the whole cast excelled themselves. It
ig not worth while to give a resume of
the play enough is said when we say
it was a darn good show.

_The curtain having fallen at the end
of the first act the orchestra struck up
with Dalhousie airs. An evening paper
next night reported that “the group
singing went over in a fine manner”
but to a Dalhousian it seems that even
although song sheets were handed around the singing was not as hearty as
it might have been. Dalhousie should
have organized singing on occasions
like this, nevertheless it was far from the
dismal venture witnessed at rhe convocation play last year.

Following the singing Eddie Murray
gave a clever telephone skit introducing
the names of many campus celebrities
each of which was greeted with uproarious applause.

During the same intermission a
number of clever cartoons were flashed
on the screen the cartoons were all on
Dal characters and like Eddy Murray’s
clever wise-cracks were met with howls
of approval. The slides were thé work
of Herbie Davidson, Don Murray, Don
MacKay and Tommy Goudge.

Between the second and third acts

various yells were given and_ following
these Morris MacKinnon and Graham
Allen presented a short burlesque on
radio broadcasting their comedy gags
were good and they were well applauded.
For some reason these gentlemen (as did
their predecessors) seemed to pick on
a certain prominent university man as
the object of a good many jokes.
_ “After the play was.ver’’ the audlence adjourned practically en masse
to the Masonic Hall where a most enjoyable dance was held. The dancing
was kept up until one o'clock when Joe
Mills and his orchestra played the last
waltz. The strains of the ‘“‘King’’ were
the final touch to one of the most enjoyable college events of this season.

The committee who so efficiently
arranged the entire evening and in
particular their chairman Ralph Morton
are to be congratulated on pulling off
an event and the Council are also in line
for commendation for proposing and
sponsoring one of the most successful
Dal nights ever held.

—R. A. D.

PHYSICAL TRAIN’G
DISCUSSED AGAIN

Perhaps a few comments on this compulsory Physical Training Movement
may not be amiss from a student who
has been at Dalhousie for three years
but who has never been in the gym
except for exams and Glee Club entertainments. The loss to me physically
has been inestimable; yet whenever I
planned to spend a few minutes in the
gym something always interferred. And
is it not the same with other students?

 

If, however, at the time when I came 
to this college there had been on the
cirriculum classes known as Physical
Training I and II (with a standing
similar to English I and II) | would have
taken them as a matter of course and
would undoubtedly have been immeasurably benefited by them. The health
of future students should not be left to
luck.

At present the Students’ Council is
trying to obtain an exorbitant fee of
$10 and I am not the only one who is
decidedly against this increase. But
if this fee was to count as full payment
for the class in physical training I would
withdraw my objection to the increased
fee. Advanced students could assist
Prof. Stirling in looking after the different classes and could be paid for this
service.

—V.D.S.
a

Dr. Herbert Stewart had just received
a pot of Shamrocks which, by the way,
is the patron flower of Ireland. Witha
beaming face he displayed them
to the Professors along the corridor.
Coining to that noted dramatist Prof.~
Charles Bennett, he held them out triumphantly for his criticism, ‘‘Chickweed’’,
says Professor Bennett, and lovly laid
was the patron flower of Ireland!

  
 
    
   
        

    

  
    
    
        
   
     
      
         
        

    
    
  
   
   
     
   
 

 
  
 
      
   
   
      
      
    
    
   
    
  
 
 

    
      
      
        
    
 
      
    
   
             
     
     

   
   
  
      
 
 

         
         
        
   
   
      
       
    
     
         
      
    
      
    
   
    
     
      
    
    
     

 
  

       
    
 

1869)

Je nek, ge
(Rounded
Seely |
FRED C. JENNINGS |

h

‘
t
:

mee, ‘
As

>

   

   

- Sport Editor
J. W. WHALEN

   

W. GORDON DUSTAN
_ MARGARET ELLS |

 
 

a Bare

oe
_

a papers: egret ss Reporters
Reser Pot 8 C.R. K. ALLEN |

ie | Circulation Manager

>

Phone Sac. 304
Subscription Rate. $1.00 per year

  
  

oo Should We Hate A ‘Rink?

“ s a rink a necessary part of university property?, is a question

  
 
  
   
   
  

selves at ;
ception would decide that such an adjunct is necessary. It is not
a question of pleasure derived alone. It is a question of adequate

efficient administration of activities connected with the funct
fer: ath
. a es a university such as Dalhousie.

‘We have class rooms enough to meet all needs. We have
- laboratories that very nearly accomodate all the students pursuing

scientific courses; and we have a building that takes the place of a
«gymnasium along with the promise of a more substantial edifice.
iy Win all these conveniences we are minus the necessary building
| in which to enjoy the sport which, though not traditionally, is, in
reality, the national sport of Canada. We have not a rink in which
a few hours can be spent in pleasant and healthful exercise. In
order to have a night of skating in which Dalhousie and the spirit
ef Dalhousie prevails and is fostered, it is necessary to hire an
outside rink at a price that would easily pay for the administration
of a university owned rink for nearly a month.
---—s- The question is,—Is a rink as necessary as other improvements
that might be planned for Dalhousie? Would the benefit to be
obtained merit the expenditure for such a purpose? There is no
doubt that great benefits would accrue from the ownership of a
-___ university rink. No residence college in the Maritime Province, no
matter how small is without its rink. It will be said that it is nec7 essary to have such a building where so many students are in such
_ close living conditions. The necessity for a rink for Dalhousie can
wa be proved from the opposite angle. In a non-resident college a

rink would foster bonds among the students which are already pre
i

¥ i! _ sent in resident colleges.

  

a

Zz

 

   

    
  

  

 

     
 

 

   
 

 

*
~~

    
  

  

   

¥

o

ad

ae
‘wh

_ The question arises, should the expenses of a rink be borne by the
university or by the athletic body. It can very easily be seen that
it would be very nearly impossible for the athletic association to
pear the initial cost of such a structure. on
\ believe that student organization could not carry on the administSee , ration of the rink once it was established. Not only that, but the
y iy ee venture should, if efficiently developed, return a surplus towards

the payment of initial costs.
eae Pre: bonelits to be obtained from such a venture can be easily
imagined. We would have a rink open at all times to students. We
__- would have a place where the students of Dalhousie could gather for
art evening’s pleasure and healthful recreation. Above all, we
-_ would have a place where hockey material could be developed and,
today, that is what Dalhousie needs. Today the only chance that
Dal has of turning out a class A hockey team is to have the material
already developed before coming to Dalhousie.
r This is an era of advertisement and it is a fact, though not
always admitted, that the sport of a university is a great advertise- ment for the institution. Probably many hold that Dalhousie does not
need advertisement, especially advertisement of that nature, but
opinions are divided on the question.
eS The fact remains that the student body of Dalhousie believe
that there should be a closed rink on the campus. Whether or not
the Senate and the Board of Governors are of the same opinion is
not exactly known, but from lack of action in the matter it would
appear as though they were not of the same opinion as the student
body. It would be interesting to hear their reasons for adverse
opinion if such they hold, or their reasons for inactivity if their
opinions concur with those of the student body.

s Al Welcome Visitor

While there is little need to strengthen the bonds of affection
which exist between Canada and the Mother Country, we welcome
the visit of Col. the Rt. Hon. Amery not alone for Auld Lang Syne,
- but for hard headed business reasons. Secretary of State for the
- Dominions, it is his aim to develop a great system of trade relations
among the British Dominions. Journeying through the whole
_ Empire he lays the foundation for his task.
Col. Amery is a compact, keen little man. His address before
the Canadian Club was deliberate, logical, a masterpiece of ex_ position. The impression he left was of a man who could dream,
aman with the strength of purpose to precipitate his dreams into

 
    


\ md

   
  
  
  

  


    

      
   
  
 
 
 

“«
%

40;
'

ve
%

 

facts. We are confident he will become the Kernel of a vast empire
a é trade.
i ae =~. : hl

a 4 i mucn:
Spee A nd So I t I § Today Moral (2): No question of species;
oy its the bunk; this was in the days when
ee lambs and lions live peacefully together.
% —B. R. G,

__ The story of this legend takes place

in the days when man shall no longer

_ lift up sword against man; when the

lion and the lamb shall play peacefully

side by side.

_ Once upon a time a meek little lamb
wandered into the sphere of lions. Hay
 

    
 
 
 

  
  
  
  
   
    
  
  
 
 
 
  

Compulsory P. T.

Dear Mr. Editor:
Now that we have adequate equipment in our Gym, what about compulsory Physical Training? The only
exercise in which the majority of our
students participate is walking to
and from classes. This to me does not
seem enough to develop one’s body.
Authorities claim that a state of health
is maintained by regular exercise and
that one’s keeness of mind is increased
So why not have more organized Gym

 

x an inferiority complex and wishing
how that he wasn't so bad after all
he immediately essayed to show off a
oe:
_ few fancy leaps and bounds; he frolic
| os and there and then with an air
‘ ae ‘prick af pt oached the King and Coun2s f the Lions, tossed his head in the
oe id said: “You hate that don’t

    
 
 
 
  
  
  
  

 
 

    

 
  
 

ae and the} work at Dalhousie?

but we've been blind from Yours very truly,

; mi $8 ed the Ww ole show.” j

s moral (1): The lamb wasn’t Aubrey Tupper.

&

ro =.
; +s Sy + > re
an whe ai A ~
i a 7 = y a i

 
  

.

 

   
 
      
         
   
     
      
       
    

   
    

that, not the students, but the board of governors should ask them- selves their next meeting. Students, as a whole, without ex
     
      
  
  
  
     
  
  

But there is no reason to]

~ On Pessimism

 

Editor Dalhousie Gazette,

Dear Sir:—At the urgent request of

a few FAITHFUL basketball followers
at Dalhousie | would like to place a few

facts before the readers of the Gazette

in an attempt to offset any effect which
the ‘“‘pessimistic outburst’”’

of your
sport editor in last weeks Gazette, may
have.

The fact that the writer of the article
was absent from the game which he
attempted to chronicle, is evident
throughout the entire article.

He claims that the game was played on
Friday evening of last week. That in
itself is a minor error but a_ reader
acquainted with the real facts immediately supposes that the writer must
have unfortunately stepped into the
“¥"" on that occasion and witnessed a
game between two teams, one comparable to a representation from the blind
school, attired in Dalhousie regalia, the
other, a quintette capable of vanquishing the Trojans and treating the supposed collegians relentlessly,

Although this year’s team ts considerably weaker than the one of last

lyear, their standing in the city league

at the present time compares favourably with their standing at this time
last season. In two games played we
won one and lost one and are now tied
with the N. S. Tech. for second place
in the league. The Technical college
squad however lost to the league leaders
by five points while we were nosed out
by two points after three of our regulars
had been taken off of the floor for personal fouls committed.

“Au revoir Basketball Trophy’’ is
one of the many gloomy phrases which
adorned the article and yet the writer,
if he delves into the records of the past,
and he seems to take particular delight
in doing so, will find that last year's
team, after losing their initial game to
the ‘‘Y” by MORE than two points were
afterwards awarded the city league
trophy. ;

While not attempting to predict at
the present time the winners of the
league this winter I am of the opinion
that out support from the student body
and consequently showing in the league
will be greatly impeded by misguiding
pen depictions replete with undeserved
pessimism. ae

The players should be given every
encouragement and possibly, if this ts
done, the sporting editor in 1932, if so
afflicted, when recalling games of bygone days can narrate with pride the
accomplishments of the 1928 Basketball
team.

Thanking you for space,

GEORGE MACINTOSH,
Mer. B. B. Team.

A Reply

The Editor of Dalhousie Gazette:

Kindly allow me a short space in
your valuable paper to comment on the
ramarkable and very interesting letter
published last Friday and written by
Mr. P. L. H: Muschamp.

As I happen to be one of the ‘persecuted race’ concerning whose wretched
fate Mr. Muschamp seems to be genuinely concerned, it was but natural
that I should read his letter with more
than passing interest. It was indeed
a revelation to me from more than one
point of view. As it is very likely, that
Mr. Muschamp himself will glance over
these lines, I think it will be quite proper
for me to address myself to him.

Unfortunately, Mr. Muschamp, I am
only a Freshman, a baby in fact towards you, who, I have been told, are
a man of the world. You will therefore
find this letter entirely lacking the
magnificent expression and fire that
abound in yours. More-over you wrote
in the burning indignation that you felt,
while I am writing in a cold room.

My dear Mr. Muschamp, as a lover
of my race, I sincerely thank you for
the interest you have displayed in our
cause. But asa lover of fair play, I am
sorry that in your moment of burning
indignation, you sadly said things which
are far from being true. It is true, my
friend, that our race suffered and still
suffers. The world has discriminated
between us and others—but Mr. Muschamp, not at Dalhousie. Dalhousie
in the words of eur worthy President
has been established on a status of
equality,—on a principle which does not
permit discrimination between race, or
creed. I- have been told by many who
spent years here that they, like all other
aliens, were welcomed heartily and
treated in the finest manner possible.
As far as my own experience is concerned, I can heartily confirm this
statement.

I know that you wrote in the best
of intentions concerning Mr. Guss, but
what caused you to think that he received a ‘raw deal’? Have you ever
judged a debate? Were you by any
means notified as to how and in what
manner this debate was judged or been
given inside information on the things
for which points were given or taken off?
Can if not be possible, my dear Mr.
Muschamp, that the judgment of older
men is just a little better than yours?

I know that I am to be censured in
saying these things to you, but my
modesty forces me to say them. Of
course, our race has produced great
men. Undoubtedly, this is true. But
I hope that you will not feel offended
when I say that we have not been leaders
in everything as your honest enthusiasm
has led you to think.

Thanking you for the space, Mr. Editor, :

 

Iam,

J. L. Dubinsky,
Arts ‘31.

 

  

 

     

THE EDITOR

Senior ‘Graditions

The Editor Dalhousie Gazette.

 

Dear Sir: During Christmas vacation
while riding on the C. N. R., “Tnternational”, | had something brought to
my attention which I would like to
bring before the men of Dalhousie.

Two elderly men walked up the aisle
and sat in front of me. This is a part
of their conversation:

“Boy. it’s great to see you again Jack
after all these years.”

“Tt applies to you too George. Remember those old college days at U.
B. Gr"

“You bet I do and the time you and
I put on our “‘Junior and Senior Cords"’
and strutted around the campus as if we
were it all. Say weren't those Fréshmen jealous?”

“Yes I do and the first day our senior
canes arrived and yours had the name
engraved Georgia. That name stayed
a long time with you much to the boys
delight.”

“You know Jack those traditions of
our campus mean a great deal to the
college. They kept us interested in
the college and all its activities. They
made campus life interesting. They
served in a round-about way to get the
students acquainted. [I think they
formed a very big factor in the making
of that wonderful U. of B. C. spirit
which dominated each fellow.”

“That's right George but you have
missed one of the biggest results. And
that is they have kept that same spirit
humming in us ever since so that most
of us send a check now and then to
help the Alma Mater keep up the old
standards and reach even higher goals.”

This conversation made me _ think
that we did not have any upper class
traditions.

[It seems to me that light collegiate
cut corduroyes adopted as “Senior
Cords” would be a very appropriate and
attractive addition to our code of traditions. The cords adopted in most
schools are of a light tan or gray. These
combined with a dark coat or a Dalhousie sweater would make a very neat
appearance. It would give to graduate students and seniors the distinction
that is due them.

Would you mind bringing it before
the students in the Gazette so as to
have it discussed on the Campus? {

Why should not Dalhousie ad opt a
Senior Tradition?

lam,

LB

 

No Discrimination

To the Editor of the Gazette.

 

Dear Sir:—Perhaps it was not unexpected that some protest would be
entered against the letter of the week,
I refer to “‘Discrimination’”’.

It is Sir to my mind the most unfortunate public expression of opinion
which has appeared in the Gazette during the past five years. Whether the
writer's conclusion is based upon a clear.
perception of conditions as they are, or
whether he is patently in error he has
forced the subject into the limelight
to make a conscious issue of it.

But let me assure Mr. Muschamp that
no such condition of discrimination has
evér existed. I know that I speak for
the “‘majority of students’ when I say
that in our association at Dalhousie, the
thought that the other man is of a different race does not oceur to the mind,
we are simply fellow students—that is
enough.

I am a friend of Ben Guss. I admire
him .in more ways than one. As a
debater he is all that Mr. Muschamp

alleges. Was he not a member of last
years team? Was he not chosen this
year? We cannot go behind the de
cision of the judges for there may have
been many considerations which did
not occur to Mr. Muschamp. In the
alternative they have a right to differ
from him upon the merits of the contestants. The inter collegiate team
is an under-graduate team, and Mr.
Guss, being an under-graduate, may
have been considered indispensable to
that team. It is possible that he was
not made leader of that team because
the judges sensed petty interfaculty
rivalry, and had regard to the fact
that both members of the McGill team
were of the same faculty as Mr. Guss.

Then it is an honor to be one of the
team, and of no vital consequence who
is styled leader.

_ Whatever the opinions of the judges
it is an insult to require an explanation
of them.

Apart from the laudatory remarks, of
the opening paragraphs, the letter is
libellous from beginning to end, It
has raised an issue which up until now,
has not even been a _ consideration.
It has put Mr. Guss in an unenviable
position. I am sure he has never
impressed me as One prone to weep on
anybody and everybody's’ shoulder.
The frequent references to Mr. Lawrence are irrelevant, slanderous and
inexcusably in bad taste. The charge
flatly laid—for evidence of the truth of
which we have the opinions and conjectures of Mr. Muschamp’s own brain
—points a finger of suspicion, toward
the trial judges, while at the same time
detracting from the honor which has
come to those who made the teams.
In fact almost everybody has been
thrown on their guard.

Among the ‘‘few things extra’ so
temptingly hinted at in the early paragraphs, is a sweeping generalization
about certain races which have led the
world in not a few fields. Then comes
a modest reference to ‘‘we of a less virile
race’’—all very loose and very doubtful. ‘‘We’ is not used advisedly.

The writer is a sincere man. I refuse to believe that he would give his

ee ee Sas

The “Sailor Prince”

  
  

In Halifax

The first royal prince to visit Halifax
was Prince William Henry, afterwards
William [V. At the age of fourteen he
was sent to sea as a midshipman under
Admiral Digby. In 1785 he passed for
lieutenant; the next year he was made
captain and stationed in the West Indies.

The summer of 1786 brought the
arrival of this “Sailor Prince” to Halifax. People were greatly excited over
this big event—indeed a live prince
has always been an object of adoration
in Halifax. He was flattered and feted
to such an extent by the officials of
Halifax that he became convinced that
he must be a creature of superior intelligence ‘‘as they all told him so and
they could not all be wrong.”’

Government House was situated where
the Province Building now stands.
The poor young man was bored to death
by the numerous addresses; finally
he asked to be treated merely as a naval
commander. He remained a week and
then sailed for Jamaica.

The following summer he again
visited us and recetved the same enthusiastic welcome. The Governor, Council, clergy and town took turns to present addresses and to give entertainments. At one dinner there were two
hundred guests. Thirty five toasts
‘were duly and heartily honored”’.
Finally the Prince was put to bed
“royally drunk as a prince could be,
and should be, in that drinking age at
Government House’.

Late in November 1787 the Prince
and the fleet came back from Quebec
and the addresses presented rivalled
those of a few weeks before. The
House of Assembly was present at the
formal welcome, its address exhausted
every known term of culogism. A
very elaborate programme marked the
day. A dinner was served at one
o'clock to one hundred and eightyfive guests, at six o’clock the thirtieth
toast was being drunk but the Prince
and Governor Parr had to retire for
there was to be a dance at nine o'clock.
“The dancing continued till daylight.”

Next day the members of the Legislature voted 700 pounds to defray the
cost of entertaining the Prince. Yet a
grant of 100 pounds could not then be
obtained for county roads and bridges.

At this time in Halifax, there were a
great number of the English aristocracy.
Many wealthy noblemen filled the
hotels. Drinking gambling and many
vices followed in their train. From a
moral standpoint, Halifax at this date
did not occupy a very enviable position.
The wealth and lavish entertainments
of this host of young nobles conduced
to injure the tone of society. They
departed with the Prince and our little
town was the better for their going.

In after years this prince was known
to his subjects_as the “‘cocoanut-headed
king’. Grenville in his satirical memoirs has described him well. When in
Halifax he appeared to be a good-natured nonentity. He threw himself into
the dissipations of society but his hearty
geniality and bluff sailor-like manners

 

made him popular with all warm
hearted Haligonians.

a

Music Extension Course.

The Faculty of Music at McGill
University are prepared to extend their
class instruction in music in the schools
of Montreal, Dr. H. C. Perrin, Dean
of the Faculty and head of the McGill
Conservatorium declared this morning.

The Faculty, Dr. Perrin explained,
are awaiting official authorization from
the school board to carry their work
into other schools. With half of the
school year practically over and the
classes in pianoforte in some of the
principal schools of the city attended
in all by about 300 students a definite
want is being filled, Dr. Perrin stated,
and similar classes would undoubtedly
be welcomed in districts not already
touched.

—MCGILL DAILY.

 

name to a cause celebre merely to
create some excitement in the life of
a little college. But coming as he does
from a continent were anti-Semetic
prejudices are old and deep, where a little
pogrom; now and then is “relished by
the best of men,” and where students are
frequently leaders in such uprisings,
he has failed to realize that here he has
a new background, and thus at the
first suspicion of discrimination he
takes his stand for the right.

Yours sincerely,

John F. Shaw.

MUSIC

Our aim is to give a Musical Service so
complete that when you think of music
you naturally think of Phinneys.
Sheet Music Department we specialize in

music for

--e_rrrar—o—— 8 ee ee he

a, er

 

orders will,
ful attention.

FE OF A |
COLLEG

   
     

Everyone is very pleased to hear that
Ruth Foote, Arts '27 is well on the road
of recovery.
* * * .
We have all missed Agnes Hattie
from Dal, we hope she will soon be back
with us.
* + *
So great is the attendance at the
Extension lectures being conducted by
Dr. MacMechan that it has been necessary to change the lecture-room from
Room 3 in the Arts Building to the
chemistry theatre. The lectures are
being most enthusiastically received by
the public.
* * *
Congratulations to Dr. Edwin Cameron on the birth of a daughter. Dr.
Cameron graduated from Dal in medicine last spring and is now director of
the Lee County Health Department,
Beattyville, Kentucky.
* *

This evening the Medical Society will
meet in the Munro room at 7:30 o'clock.
The Dean of the Medical Faculty, Dr.
John Stewart will be present during the
evening.

* # *
_ The Dalhousie Second Basketball
five went into a tie for the leadership
of the City League last Saturday by
defeating St. Joseph’s 13—10. Their
win puts them on an equal footing with
the Wanderers for first place in the
league.
——____

FOR SALE—A practically new Ludwig senior professional TRAP DRUM
SET. This outfit is complete, contains
many additional accessories, and is
equipped with water-proof covers.

The owner finds it necessary to sell
at a sacrifice price.

Phone:—Sackville 4199,

ete ese:
High Cost of Learning.

Yale University has increased its
tuition fee by 15 per cent to meet the
demands inherent in developing her
education program. The announcement came almost simultaneously with
the over-subscription of the twenty
million dollar endowment fund. It is
pointed out, however, that the interest
from the fund will not be sufficient to
remove altogether the pinch of poverty.
Self-supporting students will not be
affected by the increased fee. It will
touch only those who are able to pay.

—The New Student.

 

Remembrance

It was long, long ago, yet I remember

Though all the mighty ages rise and fall,

I only know that somewhere, by a river

We met ana kissed and parted, that was
all. ‘

 

And oh, her eyes were like the deepest

shadows,

And oh, her eyes were like the softest —

stars,

And all her face was one white flower of
beauty

That time with dusty footsteps never
mars.

For still she comes down memory’s
well-worn highway,

Past the great boundary lines of death
and birth; Fs

[ never see the full moon on the water,

But she is walking with me on the

earth.

I think the gods so loved her for her
sweetness
That when the closer darkness round
her fell,
They did not rouse her soul to never
striving,
But gave her in a peaceful land to dwell.

And from that garden of soft winds and
twilight

Two gates lead out that know not locks
nor bars,

Through one she goes to hear high
heaven chanting,

Through one she seeks me in the hour
of stars.

Dear maiden, long ago beside a river,

[ felt your warm lips meet mine in the
gloom,

But moon, flowers, and love's
eternal rapture, . om:

Are stronger than the years of death and

doom.
M. B.

and

—F.

 
   
   
  
 
     
  
   
   
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 

In our

teachers and students. Your
at all times, receive our care
  

 
  

: 7 Pa Te even pur
ch nces; pursuit of
health i is an unconditional
e do not pursue many
we aor are good for us
compelled to do so, thus in
physical training that a

petite for it may ensue, we |

d to take the first taste.

y that turns out healthy
‘minds should also turn out
‘trained bodies, bor a healthy
the chief pre-requisite to aC
: all to happiness. No m mind
its best under a nese p of
ica al Compulsory P. T.
d remove or prevent many such
on a students.

yulsory Physical Training? Cer
E. Redmond Budster '29.

BEN’S NOTE BOOK

‘The i day I was thinkin. dad was
n his pipe. mum was readin a play.
mt e fierpl was burnin. the radyo was
- playin nise musick by dad. and I was
thinkin. how do peepel think anyway.
and mum sed how it sed in her book
cf - brains is in the liver an her book was
p poakess sr an heeza big man an dad sed

_ brains is in the hed coz
thats how Si Ents maid sutch hed way
on thot sutch grate things like radyoze.
RS an that’s how men have to do bizness.
jest in ther hed. an mum said lissen to
that song Chansong Treest an the one
% sia before it meditation from Ty Ess the
men wot rote them had ther brains in
ther hart. an dad sed wot about the
liver an ma ced that Ma Low an Shakesan ther contempteries Kid an Green
- tote golling things an they must a had
brains in ther livers in those days. an
ised wer’s men’s brains these days an
- ma sed the brains is always in the hed
but some puls brains is controwled
__——siby_- their liver, some peepul by ther
z hed and some peepul by ther hart an
ma sed i hope u will be ruled by the
hart an dad sed the hed an i sed i wun; oak der witch is best an dad sed two mutch
: a hart makes peepel unhappy coz our
a charts long for things that are in the
a wind.......an dad was thinkin. an ma
ae sed i i guss dads right wr young benny
r _ we will train the hed........but i wonder
Me if they can ........ I want to be happy......ey but i love musick........and the wind_......

   
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  

 

i fa

     

| Beauty Shoppe
re The largest wine best equipped Beauty Parlors east of
ontreal—and only then out| done in size! All our operators
i are graduates — experts — In >
every phase of Beauty Culture,
and all equipment is modern —
to the smallest detail.
Your patronage is solicited,
and we warrant complete satisfaction from a manicure to
a permanent wave.

Phone S. 3830 for appointment

The WOOD BROS Co.,
Limited

     
 
   
    
 
   

  

      
    
 

  

      
 
 

| Say it with Flowers, Say at with ours
THE HOME OF

Cut Flowers & Potted Plants

We make up Funeral Designs,
also Wedding Bouquets. We also
do Table Decorating. We are the
‘only members of the T. F. D.
Florists. We can wire Flowers
to all parts of the world.

The Rosery

8 BLOWERS ST.
Phone Sac. 3321-3322
Night Phone Sac. 1934

    
   

 
  

    
    
 

  

    
     
   

  

  
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
    
   
    
  
 

George F, Power

Cigars, Cigarettes, Tobacco

SMOKERS’ REQUISITES
of every Description

—Also—

Cards, Souvenirs of Halifax
Majestic Bldg.

HALIFAX, - N. S.

| The Greatest Asset of a bus- |
iness is to give customers |

what they  want—when

a they want it.
a 1 JOB AND SOCIETY PRINTING
a
|

|

|

|

i

4
a always delivered when 
promised at the

_ | NOVA PRINT Ltd

; 227-229 Hollis Street
] One Block North of Post Office

| MacLEOD, BALCOM,
ek —DRUGGISTS—
5S STORES

     
 
 

  

   

St.  174Spr. Garden Rd.
ime Agricola St.
. eee vee ene Oxford St.

  

ysical “Training? Y Yes. | 6

1 may be injudicious .

 

  

 

Peculiar Incident in the
Wilds of Darkest Africa

No. 1.

Some twenty or thirty years ago while
exploring the country West of the Congo
we had in our party a gentleman called
Powelkenny. He was a rather peculiar
chap, very slow at making a decision;
for instance, if we wanted to make a
new trail he would spend half the day
making up his mind to go with us.

On account of this characteristic and
the difficulty which the native mwoompi
or bearers had in pronouncing his name
we were amused with some very humorous occurrences you may be sure.

One night as I sat in my kaas or hut
one of the mwoompi rushed in.

“Oh saaled (master)'’, exclaimed the
poor black, ‘“‘“Much tlouble.”

‘‘What’s the matter Long?” said I,
(I always called him Long for short.)

“‘Accident,”’ the poor fellow managed
to gasp.

“What is it?” I cried, for I was not a
little alarmed.

‘‘He who hesitates is lost,” said the
blackamoor ingenuously. Then the
laughter was general much to the discomfiture of the black.

No. 2. Repartee in Shanghai.

About ten years ago, while staying
in Shanghai, [ had an English valet
by the name of Wright, who afterwards
left. Catch on? A joke what? I have
always been noted for a wit; in fact my

enius as a wag leg to some great sport

}in Shanghai and no mistake.

My valet was the center of one hum
| Bitherto Cnpublished ‘Stories of Travel
and Gbdbenture

(As narrated by M. rere the famous cao ae ;

orous 5 ibaident.
although he recovered he was of no further use asa valet. Hwng Ku Mi, the

   

 
   
    
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
   
 
  
  
    
 
 
 
 
  

 
  

He was run over and

| wealthy mandarin who ran him over
wished to compensate me, so he gave
me his two servants, Raung Li and
Raung Foo, brothers.

Some days later he met me and asked
me how the two boys were getting along.

“Oh very well’, I replied wittingly,
“but you know two Raungs don’t make
a Wright.”

No. 3.—Diverting Situation in the
Alps.

pennte doing some Alpine climbing with
rty of novices in the spring of '14
appening occurred which amused us
very much, It was this way:
Nine of our party in venturing too
near the edge of a cliff fell over. However they had the good fortune to land
on a ledge about forty feet below. I
immediately threw them a rope and
with my other brave companions started
to haul them up.
Much to our chagrin, however, the
rope began to fray and our comrades
were in danger of dropping to the bottom
of the horrible chasm. One of our
party, an ex-tailor came to their assistance just in the nick of time and with
his needle and thread fixed the rope and
saved their lives.
A city-editor, who was with the party
and who would have his little joke, remarked:
“A Stitch in Time Saves Nine.”’
No. 4.—Remarkable Episode of
Burglary.

When living in New York with Pilson
Answer, we had an apartment directly
across the hall from two brothers. They
were very much afraid of burglars and
one night ‘Pilly’ and I decided to play
a joke on them.

We donned masks and climbed in
their windows with our revolvers. They
were terribly frightened and both sought
hiding under a large fur ru

“Ah”, remarked
under the skin.”’

You can imagine the embarassment
of the two brothers.

‘Pilly’ ‘‘brothers

5.—Account of an Incident at
Eloy.

No.

For some years I was president of
Eloy University and had to entertain
all the visiting lecturers. One man, a
Dr. Chase, who spoke to our Medical
School was very tall. Not only that
but he had a very forbidding appearance.
His manner also, was very gruff and
abrupt.

I was speaking to the Dean of the
Medical Faculty about this one day.

“Well”, said he, with a merry twinkle
in his eye, ‘‘that only goes to show that
a stern Chase is a DE ere eT On one.’

 

 

se

Lindbergh’s solo flight across the
broad Atlantic waters has established
a record which later experience has
shown to be practically impossible to
equal—more so to break. In Miami,
Florida, according to a recent publication a Prof. Robert Cc ondit, “a scientist and chemist” is preparing to attempt
a new record by leaving this old earth
altogether and taking a short trip
to Venus which is the _ nearest
planet to the earth. The machine
which he is constructing is in
the form of a giant rocketin which
he will inprison himself along with a few
conveniences for his trip and in which
he hopes to alight upon the unexplored
surface of a heavenly body some
23,000,000 miles away from Miami and
other ports of this mundave sphere.

We can not have the true scientific
spirit, the spirit of a Columbus or a
Magellan, for we can see nothing but
failure awaiting the scientific Prof.
Such an attitude of mind we can blame
on science as it is taught to us today.
A few considerations of scientific phenomena will establish our stand on the
matter.

Anyone who has set off a rocket on a
day of celebration realizes how quickly
the toy picks up speed in its heavenly
ascent. Prof. Condit will indeed have
to hold tightly to his scientific principles
and convictions to prevent himself
being seriously damaged in his prison
compartment. We don’t want a damaged sample of what we produce here
exhibited to the critical eyes of Venus,
if that planet is populated, —taking it
for granted that they have eyes.

Again, the distance of 23,000,000
million miles will take some time to
traverse. If the rocket travels at the
average rate of one thousand miles per
hour it will require approximately two
and one-half years to reach the relatively small target in space. A little
mathematics along with a knowledge
of diet will show that the scientist and
erst while explorer will require some
two and one-half tons of food and water
unless he expects to live on hopes of
success.

Prof. Condit will say that his speed
will be much greater than one thousand
miles per hour. Then all that can be
said is that he will be hot on the trail
of his objective. We have all seen
meteors passing through the earth’s
envelope and have seen them due to
incandescence produced by heat of
friction in their passage through the
atmosphere. The professor will have
a fuelless cooker on his trip but should
the rocket reach the planet the inhabitants, (once more taking it for granted
there are such individuals on Venus),
will receive the present of a half-baked

scientist.

ere? hat he

te

From our supposed knowledge of
science we infer that the professor expects gravitation (invented by Newton
under the shade of the old apple tree)
to help him towards Venus. There are
three contingencies that may occur in
this flight. First, the force of his machine may not be great enough to carry
him beyond the gravitational influence
of the earth. In that event he will
make a return trip to the earth, make a
big hit and another scientist with the
true Greek spirit, who followed the
argument to the end (his own) will be
laid to rest, if found.

Secondly, he may overcome the attraction of the earth, experience the
gravitational attraction of Venus and
strike that planet a resounding thwack
on the back. We have all seen how a
heavy body will bury itself in the earth
on falling the matter of a few hundred
feet. Truly the professor's rocket should
enter deeply into the heart of Venus.
If inhabitants there are on the planet
they will have to delve deeply for this
gift from the earth. The fate of the
occupant of the rocket would be a matter
of conjecture indeed. It would probably be the old story of having to
shoot himself to keep him from starving
to death.

The final eventuality is that the
rocket will just reach a point where the
gravitational forces of earth and Venus
will balance. In that case a new body
will be added to the heavens to cause
abberations in astromers’ calculations
and minds and mothers with a tear in
their eye will snug their babes to sleep
with, . There's a new star in Heaven tonight.”

Finally, if the trip is a success,—that
is, supposing the scientist should reach
Venus without being broiled or pounded
into a steak a la hamburg—of what
benefit will it be to science. When
Columbus started out, he was by no
means sure of a place to hang his hat
when«he arrived at the place where he
didn’t know he was going, he, at least,
had a return ticket and a few stalwarts
to accompany him. Does the professor
expect to ride back on his ‘hobby
horse,”’ to acquaint us with the wonders
facts of his ‘‘New World’’?

Probably we are mid-Victorian in
our ideas. Possibly we are antideluvian
in our scientific thoughts. If so, blame
it on the education we have received.
Probably we haven't got the true spirit
of the explorer who visits unknown
lands and undergoes untold hardships.
Our motto probably is, “One earth
underfoot is worth two in the air”. In
fine we hold that the only flights that
professors should undertake are flights

of fancy. mek
—Ta

The Pelee
Prince

When we were very young all the
nice stories began with “‘once upon a
time’, and most of the stories we read
now begin with a piece by Preface, a
very important gentleman because he
has something in nearly every book.
But in spite of the universal popularity
of this one Preface, Esquire, I venture
to begin a tale—‘once upon a time”

Now once upon a time there lived a
little girl who wore two long pigtails,
who had grey eyes, a big nose and a
big mouth. She lived very much to
herself and used to imagine that the
empty chairs had very nice people in
them, and she used to talk to these
people by the hour.

One evening when she was sitting
alone talking to her imaginary friends
she looked up, and, lo! there stood Prince
Charming. She knew that it must be
he for he was a combination of all the
heroes that she had ever read _ about.

In his eyes, shone the spirit of young
Lochinvar and Sir Galahad. His hair
was like that of Wilfred of Ivanhoe, his
stature was that of Richard Coeur de
Leon. King Arthur, Don Quixote Aladdin, and Romeo together with many
others—all the strange people who paced
or galloped through her books were
there in that one splendid person. He
was encased in armour, of course. It
would have been very artistic if his
armour had been silver and his plume
blue, but the armour was gold and the
plume crimson.

By the time she had finished looking
at the strange appearance they were no
longer in the room but riding on a
white charger (much like Lochinvar)
through the same country that the
Scottish knight traversed with the Saracen, and she half expected to see some
evil spirit running along in the bushes
beside her. But they did not come to
any hermit’s cave, and gradually the
grim mountains changed to rolling green
hills with gardens and orchards on
them, and little houses with the smoke
going straight up in the still air. They
were going slowly now and she thought
she would find out what it was all about
but her escort discouraged any speech by
pointing gravely to a long flight of stairs
at their right. It stretched up and up
until it reached a point.

As they climbed they seemed to pass
door-ways where from wonderful music
came forth. Once a ’cello was playing
Liszt's ‘‘Liebestraum’’ and her heart
ached with an unknown pain. Again
she heard a master play a Chopin waltz
on a piano and she fancied she saw a
thousand fairies robed in silver cobwebs dancing in the light of the new
moon. They passed another door and
a mighty organ thundered forth a
Bach fugue calling up the grandeur of
great kings and church dignitaries;
in another room a violin wailed ‘The
Song of India’’, and further on an orchestra played “In a Monastry Garden”

and a chorus of male voices sang, now
softly, now loudly, the melody rising
and falling in full golden tones; and
farther on silver tones from a soprano
who sang like the birds in the early
morning.

 

top. They passed through a door-way

and rode for miles and miles in a strange

forest where the trees were wierd and
looked half like deformed human beings.
The scene shifted from time to time.
Sometimes they were in a perpetual
green light, at times in a strange land
where black flowers grew on
plants.
no people at all but at length they came
to a city where many people were reclining on the richest furniture or wandering among the costliest of luxuries.
Fine pictures surrounded them, exquisite music breathed in the air but
they all looked dissatisfied—

‘These,’ said the guide, “are the
people who, on earth sought ever the
fine things of a material life and ignored
their souls. They have lost the power
to love and their hell is to have all that
they craved on earth.”

They passed like ghosts from the

place and she found herself at home in
her own chair.

You may persist that this is an impossible story, that it was a dream that
no little girl ever had such a dream,
but that is because you never had one
like it. Perhsps you did, though, and
then you will agree with me that it is
no wonder she grew up to be a very
serious person.

—R. E. G.

 

 

tHe SONG SHOP +".
for ANYTHING in

MUSIC

22 Spring Garden Rd.
Halifax, : 3 Canada

 

 

6) DL OE ROT
NOTICE!

Students’
a

CONDONS

Mien’s Store

Special Discount

 
      
 
 
  
   

Dalhousie Stationery |

24 Sheets Writing Paper
stamped. with the Dalhousie Crest and 24 Envelopes to match.

Special 50c a Box
Connolly's Book Shop |

487 BARRINGTON ST.
Opposite St. Paul's Church

By this time they had reached the

white
In some countries there were

Tt Hopied

 

PIANOS, VICTROLAS,

Small Musical  Instruments and Victor Records

We invite you to join our

FICTION LENDING LIBRARY

2 cents per day

McDonald Music Co.

93 Barrington St. Halifax

 

Sleiman al =e

To readers of
The Dalhousie Gazette

we recommend

Kinley s

THE REXAL
DRUG STORE

For everything in
Drug Store Needs

499 Barrington Street
Phone Sack. 61

rom the

WINNERS fo"

 

For 60 years the REACH Trade
Mark on Sporting Goods has been
a mark of perfection. No matter
what your favorite sport may be, we
can supply you with equipment that
will help you play the game with
the best that’s in you.

CRAGG BROS., CO.,LTD.

Hardware and Sporting Goods
HALIFAX, N. S.

CLASS
JEWELLERY

We enjoy the distinction of
making practically all Dalhousie
Class Jewellery.

We appreciate the trust placed
in us by the Dalhousie students
and in turn always assure them
of our very best service.

HENRY BIRKS & SONS
LIMITED

Diamond Merchanis HALIFAX

 

HE PRINTING

DE- |
PARTMENT of the |

Imperial Publishing Co.,
Limited, is famous for the
quality of its press work,

on Booklets, Catalogues,
and all kinds of Job Printing.

Telephone Sackville 1017

 

REFLECTIONS OF REX /Z

~a party may bea bore —the lady of
one’ ‘s choice may be dancing
-yet there's still a morsel of satisfaction in
the dreariest perae ies for the man

 

 

 

iT. C. Allen & Co]

     

with Sndthen

  

Dalhousie
Crested

Stationery

Linen or Kid Finished
Note-Paper with Crested
Envelopes to match.

FARRELL’S

391 Barrington St.

A Complete Book—Stationery
and Gift Shop Service

HUBLEY’S

DRY CLEANING, DYING AND

PRESSING
VALETERIA
4 Tickets ~ - - - $2.00
§2 Sackviile Street, Phone S$ 109

Globe Laundry Ltd

50 Buckingham Street

G.W.SPRAGUE, Vice-Pres.
‘CC. W. SPRAGUE, Pres.

The College Students’
Laundry

Telephone Sac. 714

Csauvin & Gentzel
Photographers

oo

18 Spring Garden Road
Phone Sac, 692

STUDENTS’ ELECTRIC

FARQUHAR BROS, LTD.

Barrington Street

MODERN

PRINTING

MODERATE
Cost

os & at penises Strers
   
 

se fi

a ve Basketers

  
  

ip where Cae ee we| CL GAME Ars “¥.") LAST SATee the Dal / cLost URDAY NIGHT

r the fine
echnical ( st| The Dalhousie Senior Basketball five
z > entered the winning column in the
Halifax City league last Saturday by
| netting the telling counter in the last
)} minute of play and winning their game
with St. Georges by the close score of
35-33. George MacLeod and George
;| Murphy were the high point getters
r-|for the winners. MacLeod collected
| 14 points | and Murphy 10.

. ong| The Tigers started well and had the
hey didn’ t get the intend-| first session well in hand. It ended
Just ‘right. Understand | with the score 23—25 in their favour.
no volte face on the| George MacLeod was star of this session
Far from it, all I having 12 points to his credit when the
is to make matters a| whistle blew. The second period witclear. ae criticism, satire, | nessed a rally on the part of the Saints
nocks implied in that article were| and they all but tied up with Dal before
nce .e University as a wave Murphy started the Dal scoring with
= at any. particular person, a neat shot from close in. From then

ns . To criticise the p 2 |

on it was a nip and tuck affair with
I Was. play for Dal because the Univ-| both teams displaying their best form
sity isn't capable or can re produce of the evening. The Saints were conal atertade that I never in-| siderably faster in this game than they
Concerning this attit- were the previous week and came near
verything Pease those players

to giving Dal their second defeat but the
carry the colours of Dalhousie

fore Tigers were too strong for them and
Re : Reece tae arena ee deserve

  
 
  
 
 

 

  

  
   
     
 
   

  
  

eed

 
   

 
 

       
 
   

  
  

   

although they only ended one basket
to the good they had the better of the
s great if not a p than the} game and deserved their win. The
xmer boys, who used to burn up the

Cit league did. Not for their natural |
“pbiktey, to gutplay even their inferior
: om ponents but for their willingness to
a Sate best for their college. Consider |
what they all know they're in for when
they consent and you will get a fairly
decent idea of why they deserve credit.
ty the first place there isn’t a player
ata, the team who doesn't know that he
ny Bi isn’t in the class of our former stars and
yee be _ ‘moreover that he will be, justly or unjuii stl x Cees tothem. Secondly they
to draw support unless
they play as as good hockey as their predecessors did—in this case an imposs
    

 
 

Dal team:

MacLeod 14; Murphy 10; Davidson 3:
Ross 7; Smith 1; Sperry; ‘Jones; Total
35. Referee Ted Coffee.

NE

INTERFACULTY BASKETBALL

    
 

     
 

   

   

   

 

   

_Engineers, Meds and Freshmen were
the winners in the Interfaculty Basketball games staged at the Studley gym
last Saturday. The scheduled game
between Theology and Commerce was
not played. All three of the winning
teams won their games by large scores
and the battles were too one sided to be

 
   

  

 
       
   
   

Beat St. St. George ’s !

 
  
 

ess body.

 

    
 

   
  
    
 

   

— ieism: wh

of have got.

* they play for Dal than the remainder

y—and so they play their games in
on ie of criticism and without a sign
reg anything like support from the studAnd then they are in the
sition of receiving more critich should be levelled at the
- College as a whole and not at the team.

_ happy

For after all they arethe best we can get

(pardon me I mean ARE ALLOWED)
have represent us. _

oot No player is expected to give more

he has to give for his College.

fe The fact that the present crop haven't
hema ‘much to give as former stars had

"4 loesn’t retract in the least from. the
adit they merit for giving what they
They deserve a whole lot
credit for the manner in which

  

of the student body deserve for their
SI of them, We can’t help recalling

the: last game Dal played in the City

llegiate League last year.

It was to the interest of St. Mary's

to have Dal win that game and

7 - the yo aa sen any louder for their

Bye

o£ J

_ ght our former stars to Dal.
_ chance has deserted us and if we are

an they did for Dal that]
result was that Dal upset
ene and won a game that had been
mnceeded to the other team. Any
Zames the Dal sextette win this year

are the result of their own effort and
Nr Re ms < student body should look for other
sources than the team for their critical
- comments,

Maybe it was pure chance that ad
If so

_ to have a team of senior calibre next year

_ or the year after we shall have to rely
on something more reliable than mere
_ chance to

bring them here. If our
luck has deserted us we can substitute
something for it. And there is only

in choosing the institution at which he

ik é will continue his studies? Is it not also

(0 es"
ce
ae
ee *E
rem
fa)
hu

S

.

fe 4 . and the ref was terrible.

  
 
   
    
   
   
    
   
  

aren F > first expected.

   
  
    
 
  
 

he
{4

See AilDalhousieStudents
aoe “especially the Book Lovers
|| are cordially invited to make |

reasonable to suppose that he can be
rightfully influenced to come to Dal
_as well as to go somewhere else? What's

so horrible in letting some budding
aoe hockey player know that Dal is
- the best College in the Maritimes? And

_ that it is an-honour to play for her teams?

‘All of which means that Dal can

have a hockey team that will be able

to play senior hockey. We have the

_necleus here now—Martin, Eaton Le

Furgey, Ross—But the rest we shall
_ have to GET or trust to luck.

 

_ Reports of the Dalhousie hockey in
~-vasion of Acadia last week seem to in
dicate that the referee—Poole—was all
wet. At any rate the game was rough
Acadia won
 §—0. Dal were without the services

of Foley but had Wickwire and Eaton

_ along. A large crowd attended the
game which was played in the new
tink, Eddie Murray, manager of the
_ hockey team, is confident that the Dal
_ team could defeat the Acadia team if the
an were staged in the Forum.

 

showing 1 made by the Dal senior
ketball five is,so far,better than was
After losing their
‘firs game ae one basket the Tigers won

Sa

yO at pete. |
I ICKERY, Manele

oa ae
: pont i

     
    
   
     
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
   
    
 
  

    
    
 

  
 
  
  

   
   
   

of much interest.

In the opening game the Engineers
ran in sixteen points while the Dents
were only able to collect two baskets.
Currie was top man for the winners.
In the second game the Lawyers suffered their first defeat of the season at the
hands of the Meds. Invincible so far
the Lawyers wilted before the attack
of the Medicals and were almost whitewashed. The score was 19—2. Cheeseman was the high liner for the winners.
He scored five baskets. The Freshmen
won the third and last game from Arts
by the score of 23—4. Miller, Hewit
and Nickerson leading the attack for
the winners. The lineups and results:

ist Game—Engineers: Scott; Fisher;
Hamilton 5; Keating; Ritchie; Currie 10.

Dents: Harris; Clough; Godsoe 2;
Lebetski 2; Chaisser.

2nd fens Neds: Ross; Douglas 1;
Hewitt 6; Cheeseman 10; Morash;
Miller; Marshall.

Law: Outhit 1; Gavsie; McNaught;
Doyle; Redmond 1.

3rd ea played (Commerce

and Theology

4th Game—oO. Hewitt 7; Miller 10;

Nickerson 6; Clarke; M. Ross; I. Fraser;

Laurence; Harriss; Matheson.
Arts: R. Donahue 2; K. Matheson;
P. Doyle Parker; G. Zwicker.

Games To-Morrow

2:30—Commerce vs Freshmen
3:10—Theology vs Arts
3:50—Meds vs Dents
4:30—Law vs Engineers

 

from St. Georges by the score of 35—33che Vii MLC,

Pd surprise of the evening by defeating the ||
| ees "GO ARTER THEM! highly reputed Tech team 26—21.||
ssa: i . ae h Everything points to a tight race for |}
va hi ay h Pia © hee 6 hi = #) honours and the Saturday evening pro-| |
bet is schoo eo MOET 38 7 “©Y | gram at the Y is well worth the students | |
ae ayer is going to exercise some choice patronage. Aside from the support

the team deserves, the games are worth |} |
seeing and a larger attendance of Dal|}|
students would be appreciated at least | |
by the players and management of the} |

Dal team.

Percy W. Bishop, President of the ||

Maritime College Players, and who is
now a student at Dalhousie, has posted
a call for candidates for his proposed
summer tour. The record made by the
College players last year was an enviable one and they are well known
throughout Canada. The writer will
give a more detailed account of the

College Players in the next issue of the| ff

Gazette,

 
     

   

BUTTONS ON
RENTS MENDED
HOLES DARNED

That’s the service you get
free when you send YOUR
Laundry to Ungar’s.

VALETERIA

     
   
   

 
   
   
    

   
     
 

   
 
    
   
 
 

  
  

 
 
  
 

     
 
  

   

  
  
 
  
  
  
  
 

A new pressing Service:
Your Suit or Overcoat
Steam Cleaned and Pressed, for 75c or 4 Tickets
for $2.00,

NECKTIES cleaned 10c.

UNGAR’S
| os St., Halifar, N fee

DYEING
VALETERIA

LAUNDERING
CLEANING

A. squad pulled the|}|

     
   
   
   
    
 

= bd "
hi .
ci ‘ : ip ‘ i
a Me > ae 7
A ner , Se LF Ree 2 :

ae =

 
  
 

_DA fates GAZETTE

A.

College Movies

As one of the features of its semicentennial year, the University is preparing a series of motion picture films
depicting the work of the institution
in all departments.

The picture is being made entirely
within the University by the cinematography department of the Faculty of
Medicine. Frederick H. Coates, A.R.

 

P.S., technical assistant in the depart-]

ment of biochemistry, is in charge of the
cinematographic work, while Dr.
Bruce Macallum, Dean of the Faculty
has taken personal charge of the film
pieevetien. and K. B. Cameron, pubicity manager of the Endowment Fund
Campaign, with the cooperation of the
authorities in all departments, is arranging the subjects. These will depict,
so far as practicable, every phase of
activity in all branches of the University.
—Western U. Gazette.

Mathematical Department

 

Light travels at 186,000 miles per
second.

In one year there are 31,536,000 seconds.

1982 years ago Julius Caesar landed
in Britain.

So that if you were 1982 x 31,536,000
x 186,000 miles out into space, you could
see Julius Caesar landing in Britain.

Eh what?
—McGill Daily.

Novel Improvement

 

Fifty privileged students who have
been the first to apply for the limited
number of tickets available will try
their hands at the art of using chopsticks at the special Chinese dinner being
arranged in connection with International Week. All those who are unable to handle these somewhat unwieldy implements will have to eat with
their hands or go without food, as the
dinner is to be conducted in true Chinese fashion and no European customs
will be permitted.

The dinner has been arranged by the
Chinese Students Association in cooperation with the McGill S.C.A.

—McGill Daily.

 

Benefits of College.

 

“T am thoroughly convinced,”’ H. L.
Mencken told a representative of the
Cornell Daily Sun, ‘‘that too many
young Americans are now going to
college and that their presence is greatly
impeding the work of the colleges. Certainly it should be possible to devise
some scheme to weed out the unfit.”’

Mencken is essentially opposed to
the college for purposes of intellectual
education. With Nathan he holds that
its greatest benefits are social. He
did not go to college himself, though
he was an excellent scholar, obtaining
high, averages in almost every subject.
He is particularly interested in medicine and chemistry and was graduated
with honors from the Baltimore Polytechnic Institute in 1896. There are

'teVYou Want To Gi | Wet

SEE WALLACE

OPTOMETRIST AND OPTICIAN
Y. M, C. A. BLDG, HALIFAX, N.S

    

Our High ‘Ghats Standar

makes our Low Price

Doubly Attractive

FULL DRESS ‘and
TUXEDG, at one

price

MADE-TO-MEASURE
Tip Top Tailors
THE STUDENTS’ TAILORS

TRAMWAY BUILDING
Barrington and Sackville Sts

 

Be Ses

1928 Style Caps

for
Young Men
¢2.00 each

Frank Colweil Ltd.

New Address
417 Barrington Street
Opp. Church of England Institute

| Freeman's Pharmacy
iThe Collegian’s
Drug Store

| Use Wampoles Cod Liver
| Oil, and keep in shape
| during the cold season

COBURG ROAD
Near the College

Ww, ith We at Pash Pot

  

A. advertised in this issue,

  

*

 

  
    
   

many things about college life, however that interest Mencken. Mr. Mencken remarked, ‘““The military training
idea seems to me absurd. I see on
reason why the college student should
be conscripted and- not the young man
outside.”’

—George Washington Univ.

TREAT IN STORE ne MAJESTIC
PATRON

 

In addition to the Majestic’s pictures
The Student
Prince is booked for an early production
at the Majestic; also Gentlemen Pre
fer Blondes, The Fair Co-Ed and|comedy director.

Emil Janning’s latest picture The Last
Command, John Erskine’s _picturization of Helen of Troy are all listed
as coming attractions, as well as The
Magic Flame with Vilmy Banky and
Ronald Coleman.

College Influence Improves Drama.

 

“The influence of the American college and university has resulted in an
improvement in the drama,” Prof.
George Pierce Baker, famous playmaker, of Yale University, told a student audience at Brown Univ ersity.
That this improvement is great is indicated from the remark that ‘‘We are
at the beginning of a really significant
drama—a second Shakespearean period.”

‘‘American colleges and universities,”
said Professor Baker, ‘‘have taught
students to respect drams as a fine art:
and see that it depends not alone on the
text, but on the interpretation, setting
and expecially in this present time, the
lighting.

“In my time the worthy members of
society raised their hands in horror if a
young member of society even suggested
entering the legitimate theatre; today
the news that a member of society is
planning to take up a stage career is
received with enthusiasm.

‘And study of the theatre in the
colleges and universities has brought
out this fine, new American drama,
and continued study will improve it
immeasurably.”

 
 

February 10th, 1928

   

a ———_—~  
A NEW STAR IN ORPHEUS PICTURE.

 

Glenn Tryon, Universal's new comedy

Mayesti
star,.is the aviator and the main laugh
provoker. His inimitable sae keep MON. & TUR.
the audience in an uproar from beginn-|F @¢
ing to end. He eats peanuts and flies || THE gy

his plane in a hilarious manner that is a| ff
WED, & THUR.

pleasure to behold.
w Patsy Ruth Miller, as the girl in the |}
KINGS’ COLLEGE
PLAYERS

case, gives the finest performance of
IN
THE RIVALS

her career. She has a flare for com- |]
edy that should have been discovered |
FRI. & SAT.
ESTHER RALSTON
I

by producers long before this. 4 »~\e
N
LOVE and LEARN

The picture is a screen version of

Harry O. Hoyt’s humorous story of the] ff
same name and was directed by William | |
MON. TUE. & .WED.
Universals Latest Find

James Craft., A few more pictures|§
GLENN TRYON

like this one, and Craft will take his |]
rightful place.as the screen’s foremost
A New Star in Screendom

YELLOW CAB
LIMITED
‘SAC. 4444

Halifax’s Only Metered
Service
Same Rates 24 Hours.

Two travel for same as one.
More than two, 2\ cents extra,

IN
“A HERO FOR A NIGHT”

NOW PLAYING

“THE SOMME”

CASINO

RICHARD DIX
in
‘The Gay Defender’’

 

 

NOTICE!

Now is the time to get your
Tuxedo when dances, etc., are in
full swing. —

“THE NONCHALANT"”’
SILK LINED

AT MY NEW PRICE

$24.50
Robinson’s Clothes Ltd.

SERIAL : : COMEDY
< een ton St.
Roy Baitding eS ee

“Walk Sp ‘Stairs and Save Ten"

 

  
  
    
   
      

Journal.

 

—Queen's

Designed for Public Service

Front Page—aAll the news of utmost importance.

The Third Page—Containing local and provincial news.

G lancing over Nova Scotia—Personals from Nova Scotia towns
Woman’s Page—Home features for the Children.

Sporting News—With the latest in the World of Sport.
Financial News—Hot from the ticker.

Shipping Page—Covering news of the Halifax Waterfront.
Boys’ and Girls’ Pz Social Notes—Cartoons—
Photographs—Stories—COMIC STRIPS DAILY and 4 Page
COMIC SECTION WEEKLY

                 

THE HALIFAX HERALD

AND

THE EVENING MAIL

ne

University Models
for
University Men

University requirements for scholastic,

athletic or social achievements are exacting.

Aise in the matter of Clothes. These Suits |

and Overcoats exactly the type you will like

to wear—Every new color—every accepted

style—every man assured perfect satis
faction. |
|

SUITS $22.00
OVERCOATS $25.00

$25.00
$27.50

W. F. PAGE

COLWELL BROTHERS

Limited

$27.50 $30.00 $35.00

$30.00 $35.00 $40.00 $45.00 |

Barrington Street |
Cor George

 

 

453-457 Barrington Street

MEN’S HATS, CLOTHING, FURNISHINGS
AND LUGGAGE

HIGH CLASS GOODS AT MODERATE PRICES

 

  
 
   
  
 
  
   
   
    
  

Nova Scotia T echnical C College

Offers
ENGIN EERING COURSES
in
CIVIL, ELECTRICAL, MECHANICAL AND MINING

To Dalhousie Students with Engineering Diploma
MODERN EQUIPMENT

Instructing Staff with Industrial Experience
Tuition Fee $75.00 per year. Twenty-five scholarships of $75.00 each

Write or call for Calendar or advice.

F. H. SEXTON, Pres.

     
   

   
 
   

   

 
  
   
   
    
 

 

WILL ROGERS
in
‘*A Texas Steer’’
with
Louise Fazenda
Motion Pictures Today says

**A Texas Steer’’ is
“A COMEDY KNOCKOUT ?”

a tactician

PROGRAMMES
and other JOB PRINTING

receive our special attention

The ROYAL PRINT & LITHO Ltd.

As Usual

The best in Ice Creams, Confectionery and Meals,
as courtesy, efficent service and

as well

attractive surroundings are to
be had at

The Green Lantern

The
Halifax Chronicle |}

AND

The
Halifax Daily Star

The

fastest growing

|
ing |
newspapers in |
Nova Scotia

1

a :
FOOTWEAR |

Swanky Oxfords

Styled for Young Men,
correct in style—and easy
on Finances. A shoe you’il
be proud to wear.

New Shoes for the
College Girl

Shoes for street and all
sport wear — and also
slippers appropriate for
the coming evening events. |

Wallace Bros

427
Barrington St. Cor Sackville

 

 
