 
    

     
 
 
    
  
  
   
 
 
 
     
   
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
   
      
     
       
  

  

OUR AIM IS
TO GIVE LIGHT

Dial

  

VOL. LX1II.

  
   
 
 
     
  
   

Juniors Win
__-—[ntermediate
League honors

~ Cubs complete second season
without losing a single
game

 

The Dalhousie Intermediates wound
up their 1929 rugby season by holding
the Reds to a 3-3 draw on Saturday
; . and thus captured the Halifax City
me Intermediate Rugby Championship.
The Intermediates had, up till Saturaol day, won every game in which they
had engaged during the last two years,
and needed a win or draw in Saturday's
game to win the championship for the
second successive year.

Things looked black for the boys
when four of their regulars were shifted
to the first team, but these men were
replaced by hard-working players who
even more than filled their places,
pei * and exceeded the fondest hopes of the
coaches. Stoddart, Nauss. McCleod
and Grant filled the places of Drover,
ae ier, Cooper and Templeman, and

ie? ot four fitted in perfectly with the

a second team.
—_  —— The play opened: with Wanderers
_—s taking the kick-off and forcing matters
nto Dal territory. Dal came back
ong , near the end of the first

onald grabbed a loose ball
it over to make the score read
) in favour of the Tigers. Dan
‘Thompson just missed a beautiful
drop-kick on a nice effort, and the
period ended soon afterwards.

t

finger.
the V. G. Hospital.

   

ie gill

Ee rr pressing hard, and their efforts were
- go0n awarded when they scored a
pretty play making the score 3-3.

  

Rifle Association.

An easy convert was bungled, and
immediately afterward the whistle

ended the game with Dal Intermed
iates champions of their league. 600 yards.

The second half saw the Wanderers] Rifle Shoot was held
Island on Monday afternoon, under the
direction of the Dominion of Canada
About thirty members of the C. O. T. C. participated, the
highest eight composing the team.
The match was shot a
The results

 

were

 

In Hospital

 

Jack Andrew
_.. is High Scorer

The first match of the Intercollegiate
at McNab's

Undergraduate Publication

Capt. Geo. McLeod who was unable
to play Saturday due to an infested

He is now being treated at

t 200, 500 and
about

Dal lined up the same as last year the team average

AG: F. B.—Tom Goudge. being 88.5. Conditions were excellent

sy Halfs—Nickerson, Bartlett & Dickie.|at 200 and 500 yds., but at 600 the

ca Quarters—Gauss, Thompson, Stod-| marksmen were handicapped by a

Feet dart, Fraser. " slight haze and a tricky wind. Cap
bAF a Fwds.—McLeod, Grant, Magonet,|tain Beresford was range officer. Jack
tay Mahon, Conrad, Miller, McDonald. Andrew was high man with 99 points

out of a possible 105.
were as follows:—

  

The team scores

| Decided

Sophomor wee" Tater att) none) Oe

  

 

a 200 500 600
=. ‘| Jack Andrew 35 34 30
oe P . H. Counci John Shaw og OORT 29
teas . George Mahon 33 32 28
Lae Appointed Walter Bennett 29 30 31
Be Charles Lorway 31 a a
e. The new Student’s Council of Pine ee 4 26 28
a Hill, recently elected, is functioning} ton Atwood 28 26 26
ae smoothly. Russel Woodside is the eel ts
b. Bites new Pope, Jim Fay the Cardinal, ‘. T
Pec Gordon Fraser, the Scribe and the F; ist eam
— Bishop, Poualee coer ie eg E t . d
ae cons for the year are Mickey McDones ald, Jim Muir. King, Allison Fraser nter atne
q and Ward McLean. “eee
a “Quiet hours” have commenced and The members of the Phi Kappa Pi
-—~————s except for an occasional firecracker Fraternity entertained the members
ae and roadsters full of girls paying an|of the Dalhousie Senior football team
a informal visit silence reigns supreme.}at their house on Coburg Road after
a The Theologues, however, will persist |the Dal-Wanderers game on Saturday
_ in arguing on Prohibition and girls | afternoon.
. in the corridors but even this is to be| _ About fifty couples were in attenor preferred to the singing of a certain dance and enjoyed several hours~ of
% Senior Theologue. dancing to music furnished by the
a Betting is about even on the annual Haggarty orchestra, ‘
Bis” Thanksgiving football game between Tea was served during the dancing
rie the Annex and the Old Building. hours with Mrs. Gordon Fogo pouring.
, a The Annex, however, are slight fav-] . The dance broke up shortly after
orites since many of the Old Building | eight o'clock.
stars are going home for the holiday. ae

Micky McDonald, the triple threat
of the Old Building is looking for a
pair of boots, which will fit him, for the
game. Given these he promises to
aaa, show his form to the Annex heroes.
It is generally conceded that Medicine

a would have won the Inter-faculty
game from Arts if Mickey's shoes had
been smaller and consequently hadn't
tripped him up so often.

lst. Freshman; That was a bright
looking girl | saw you with last night.

2nd, Dumbell: Naw! She's so dumb
she thinks the Nova Scotia lynx is a
“ft golf course!

Phi Rho’s
Entertain

The Phi Rho Sigmas gave an informal house party on Monday night,
November the fourth,

The decorations were those of Hallowe’en and the fraternity colors.
Music for dancing was supplied by
John Budd, Charlie Jones, Pete Dowd
and Doug Gibbon. Bunker Murphy
announced the dances. The feature
of the evening was the novelty dance,
the ladies receiving favors, of which
some were and some were not,

 

   
    
 
   
  
 
  
 
  

 

—-™

   

“
e

—

HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA, NOVEMBER 19t, 1929.

   
   
   

SS a

 

Sophmores team composed of Miss Evelyn Mc
Elhinney and Raym

ond MacCarthy win

from Freshmen

On Wednesday, November 138th.
the second debate in the
Trophy Series was held in the Munro
Room.

In the absence of Ernest Howse, the
President, who had a “pressing” engagement, Miss Helen Williams occupied the chair.

‘The meeting opened by Gordon
Harris, Secretary, reading the minutes,
which were accepted. Mr. Harris
then announced that on November
z7th. the final debate for the Bennet
Trophy would he held. He also intimates that the trials for the Senio
team would be held on January 8th.

next, immediately after Dalhousie
opens for the second term.
Miss Helen Williams then intro

duced the speakers for the evening;
Mr. Michael Greenberg and Miss
Dorothy Redmond supporting the
aflirmative—and incidentally the honor
of the freshman class. Mr. Raymond
McCarthy and Miss Evelyn McElhinney upholding the negative—and the

The resolution was: “Resolved that
Canada should have a National Flag."’

Miss Doiothy Redmond, the first
speaker contended that ,the time had
now come when Canadians wanted a
national fiag. She pointed out various
instances where a national flag was
necessary and stated that foreigners
looked askance, at Canada for not
having one, the Red Ensign not being
a national flag at all. Such a step
would not mean disloyalty to Great
Britain at all; and in the light of the
important place of Canada in world
affairs today, this would be most desirable,

Miss Evelyn McElhinney then rose
in support of the negative, defining
the word ‘“‘flag.’”’ Miss McElhinney
depicted the unfortunate result which
would ensue if all the colonies had a
new flag. Such a measure would
result in independence leading to contempt and perhaps to war. There
is no such thing as Canadian nationality and Canada should not have a
flag of her own, the Union Jack giving
union to the Empire and thereby being
more beneficial to Canada than any
emblem of our own could be.

Mr. Michael Greenberg rushed to
the aid of the affirmative and pointed }
out that Canada should have a national
flag of her own because she is a new
nation and the soul of a nation is symbolized by its flag. This would give
a solid front. Mr. Greenberg contended that this would not mean disloyalty and showed that the Irish
Free State, New Zealand, and Australia all had their own distinctive
emblem, yet they are loyal to Great
Britain. The Union Jack meant empire unity only, and Canada should
be -distinguished. This would not
result in, nor involve hostility, disloyalty, or loss of allegiance to England.

 

Editor Dalhousie Gazette.
Dear Sir:—

[ became thirsty in the Science
Building the other day, and wondered
down to the basement for a drink (no
only water). A search for a drinking
fountain, paper cups or even a community drinking cup, was in vain.
None of these more or less essential
aids to drinking was to be found, I
was then faced with two alternatives.

was Mr. Raymond McCarthy who

Bennet | began by showing that Canada was

not a nation, as she was _ not
legally supreme within her own sphere.
As Canada is not a nation she should
not have a national flag. We have
British nationality and that is symbolized by the Union Jack. Being
British subjects and having a British
flag, Mr. McCarthy continued, why
not keep it, especially as our soldiers
fought under it and preferred to keep
it rather than to create a new one,

Mr. McCarthy and Mr. Greenberg
then engaged in a short rebuttal, each
refuting the arguments of the other,

Miss Williams then opened the
debate to the members of the audience.

Ben Guss, sagely suggested delving
into text books to ascertain Canada’s
status, etc. He also showed that
Canada needs a new flag to assist our
national life. Mr. McCarthy not seeing the force of Mr. Guss’ statements
délivered a dissertation thereon, on
which Mr, Guss promptly replied to
to. Mr. McCarthy, arousing much
humor. * OAR wr feet eer

Ken Smith then discussed the fact
that Nova Scotia had a flag of its
own and spoke in favour of such a
measure for Canada. Such a move
would not arouse disloyalty and in
view of the diversified races in the
Dominion, a national flag would be
most desirable.

Don Grant rose to the occasion and
at once expressed himself for the
view held by the Hon. R. B. Bennett
(shades of Caesar! Don, how come?)
opposing a national flag He then
pointed out the :Canadian navy of
seven vessels, covering the seven seas
(mirth!), and showed how a national
tlag would break up the empire, the

fleet included. (Howls!).
J. C. Rosenblum, upholding his
Cape Breton nationality (laughter)

upheld the affirmative by saying that
it was a good thing to have a nation
flag and the people wanted it.

Geo. Crouse then embarked upon a
profound discussion of nationarity and
favored a separate emblem.

W. R. Copp stated that he lived for
five years in Quebec and never saw a
French flag there; he favoured retaining the Union Jack.

There being no others in the audience
wishing to express an opinion, Miss
Helen Williams delivered the decision
of the three judges, Dean Smith, Dr.
George Wilson and Professor Mercer

By a two to one majority the judges
found in favour of the negative.

All of the speakers conducted their
speeches with ease and fluency which
has marked the Sodales meetings for
some time past and which has been
the subject of much favorable comment.

The next and final Sodales meeting,
before Xmas takes place on Wednesday
November 27th, between the Sophomores and the Juniors, for the much

The last speaker of the two teams] coveted trophy.

Demanding Attention

 

Athletes who have not this convenience in the gym are reminded that the
building is only temporary. Hence,
something of such an enduring nature
as a drinking fountain has no place
therein. Not even this excuse can be
offered in the case of the Science Building. It is permanent, and_ surely
should be provided with drinking fountains—either in halls or basement.
The building is used by practically
every student in the faculty of Arts
and Science and should be provided

 

as oe

 

- , _— a a

~ = ; . x ee

«* r a % =
ne an hee
‘ a

so
ry ea

THE OLDEST
COLLEGE PAPER

IN AMERICA

 

No.8

N -| Seniors Shut

|
Year Book

Editors Desire
Cooperation

A good steering gear
alone does not constitute
a good car. An efficient
executive alone cannot put
out a first-rate production.
The Editor and Staff of the
Dalhousie Year Book must
have YOUR cooperation if
‘*‘Pharos”’ is to be this year
an even better and bigger
success.

Sir R. Squires
Visits Lawyers

On: Tuesday, Nov. 5th, the Second
and Third Year Law Students were
favoured by a visit from Sir Richard
Squires, Premier of Newfoundland.
While the students were laboring
heavily with the problem of covenants
running with the land, Sir Richard
accompanied by Dean Smith and Mr.
G. Fred Pearson entered the classroom and delivered a short but very
interesting address. Sir Richard greet
 

Ted all Newfoundianders in the ciass

after which the class was dismissed.
The students anxiously await another
visit from Sir Richard.

KS.

Pine Hillers
Hold Dance

Pine Hill Residence held a dance
at the Green Lantern, Friday night.
November the fifteenth. Keyes’ orchestra provided the music for the
fifty couples present. Several novelty
dances added to the evenings’ success.
The chaperons were Professor and
Mrs. Bean and Professor and Mrs,
Gowanloch. The capable committee
in charge was composed of Jim Haslam.
Eric Found, Max Pratt, Dick Squires
and Jim Muir.

 

Supreme Moot
Court Meets

The Supreme Moot Court of Dalhousie is still going strong, and on
Thursday, last, a case was brought
before that honourable court which
caused much interest.

The case was The King vs Madame
X, and was an appeal from a convic
first few minutes of play all were assur
Out Reds for
League Title

Collegians score lead in
opening period which
Wanderers fail to
overcome

__It was surely a wonderful game.
rhe “it” refers to Saturday’s contest
between the Wanderers and Dalhousie
played on the Studley gridiron under
ideal weather conditions and before
over thirty-five hundred spectators
who were treated to one of the most
sensational rugby games witnessed
here in recent years,

Saturday afternoon’s performance
will be recalled for many years by
Maritime Rugby enthusiasts. Hundreds of loyal Dalhousians were in
attendance to see what kind of a game
the ‘‘cripppled” Tigers would put up
before the much touted Reds from
Scakville St, Local sport writers who
predicted a walk over for Harry’s
fitteen were there with their iittle
pads and well sharpened pencils ready
to chronicle data which would substantiate their prophecies and herald
the outcome to their previously enlightened readers.

_ The appearance of several new men
in the Dalhousie lineup seemed to
disturb the morale of the supporters
to a considerable extent, but atter the

ed of a keenly contested game, and
many visitors from outside must be
entertaming a lotty conception of those
regulars who had previously occupied
a berth on the line up in preferenceto
the new faces appearing in the striped
sweaters on Saturday.

lownsend, Wishart, Ross, Jones
and Davidson were injured during or
betore the New Brunswick invasion
and were reported as being unable to
play, early last week, but it was hoped
that Captain George MacLeod, who
received injuries to one of his fingers
in a recent practice, would be able to
lead his men on Saturday, but intection set in and he was ordered to
the hospital for treatment, shortly
beiore the game commenced.

I'he setting tor a victory was otherwise complete in every detail. The
intermediates were just coming off
ot the fieid carrying with the mthe
intermediate title tucked nicely away,
and leaving behind them an unsullied
record ior the season. Nearly one
thousand students were howling in
the Dalhousie stands, for a repition
of the Intermediate game. Sina Singer
and his cohorts were there arrayed in
their spotless ducks and borrowed
sweaters pealing out unharmonizing
strains which evidently inspired their
favourites and disorganized their adversaries. The neld despite the recent
severe rains was in splendid cond tion
and apart trom the strong wind which
prevailed all afternoon the weather
conditions were ideal.

tion under the Nova Scotia Temperance Act. The case involved the
question of presumption of compulsion
by the husband, when a wife committed
a criminal offence in his presence.
A further question of Constitutional
law arose as to the application of the
Criminal Code to the N. S. T. A.

The case was most ably argued by
counsel on both sides.

F. MacIntyre, K. C., and G. Stewart appeared in support of the conviction.

J. J. Copeland, K. C. and F. Underhay argued on behalf of the appellant.

The Bench comprised of Puddister,
C. J., Redmond and Smith, J. J.

Following the arguments by counsel
the three judges complimented them
upon the manner in which they dealt
with the case.

Two more sessions of the Moot Court
are to be held, one on Thursday next,
and the final one, the following week.

the game opened with the breeze
favouring the studleyites and after
hve minutes of play the Wanderers
five yard line was reached by a succession ot long punts into touch. Ralph
Grant starring in this department of
the game. kdwards relieved with a
long punt and play was resume dnear
center field. Piay started again from
a scrum and Grant intercepted a pass
and gained about thirty yards. Several tree kicks were awarded by Referee
smith of Sackvilie and play zigzagged
up and down the field. Bob Baird
shortly after this scored the only try
of the game when he received a pass
from Oyler near the fifteen yard line.
Grant converted from a difficult angle
and the Dalhousie stand went wild
For the rest of the half play was mostly
around mid field Dal having a light
edge in territory. The period ended
5-u for the collegians.

In the second stanza the Wanderers
started off with a bang and pressed
matters on Dalhousie ground, but the
hard working Dal forwards relieved

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    

Freshmen

TITLES |

that National
Flag is Unnecessary

“oy

   

  

 

ig a : Se ae 1 with persistent dribbling, and for some
ee atl night — ey Aina ona and ee Ore One was of inserting the water tap an with conveniences equal at least to Class Party time pressed the Redmen. Bobby
2 A date— an excellent job of the decorations. uncertain distance down my throst,|those provided in other premanent MacCoy recovered the lost ground
y A girl— and regulating the water to a flow structures. Ga Wiidaos Mee tet! the wekibens with a long kick into touch near the
Be a satall. posse at ae my gulping ability, i ne not = ay IOl:'S bar Cine 189 tuehed-ouk is foie: Sie Dal ee line. The Wanderers
is ce , the other of walking the distance to the | prolonged series of letters, Gazette| jo ¢. Fn ead were awarded a penalty kick from this
a ee dea aoe ete eo ones Arts Building for a drink. Lacking| editorials, etc., on this subject, before Oe position and Capt., Harry Edwards
ee No girl— cae Baptist Temple tea School oe ability and goursge to attempt - oer ot see their way|to all aredictions there was 70 se enti na Me three points for his team,
c Phat! le : : : the former process, and not having|ciear to provide this very necessary | ;. . ‘ - 4.4) ma cing the count 6-3,
That's all eee ce rg na as . ek time before ihe next class for the convenience. A drinking fountain in es ee bag i esha aby ne This gave the Wanderer’s new ino N t : father): It’ di. tle Osgaakc o ay- ©) latter method, I remained thirsty. the Science Building—Please!! pee ‘eter 3 un-}centive and they pressed their rivals
urse (to anxious a : ®qQ"ad-lof the 500 copied 50 verses. The ; eas . animous in pronouncing it the best f Fs :
_ruplets, sir! whole is being bound. Why is there not a drinking fountain party of the year. The chaprones or the next few minutes. Play once

or fountains in the Science Building? “AQUA.”

were Miss Lowe and Mrs, Dr. Bell.

id

   
   
  
    
  
  

  
 

 

   

College | Briefs

Unfortunate Situation.— The col
ef Gaxette [Many Opportunities for
ann Me tie ilge he See Graduate Dentists

 

 
  
  
  
 
 
  
     
   
  
 
  
  
 
 
   
     
  
    
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
    
   

     
 
  
  
 
 
 
   
   

> Pu lege in general was very disappointed
ay on learning that so many first team
2 so ; players were laid up through injurics
7 s aie 2 ale . We ‘Ketasied ” and unable to play in the big game with
eerie. Peet Cea Sees AE Dalhousie School of Dentistry is Doing a Great || W*"erers on Saturday.
feeb. &s es Managing Editor. Work Here. Received for First Time.— Mrs.
TOSH, B. SC. ~ RALPH S. MORTON, B. A. Victor Mader (nee Anna Cameron,
Ph Seal. “ke Phone Sac. 304. . : Arts 2a): received for the, first time
a | i paioond ‘ WHAT DETERMINES ~ SUCCESS] in fine dental schools, a most efficient |$1"C¢ Mer Marriage, on Eriday .act at
rs, i News Editors. . INA PROFESSION? system of graduate instruction and an ee Ores e a et 7
re W. GRAHAM ALLEN. advanced research programme. ca iated 4 receivin aa cieta
kage as ABS aa The student, man or woman, who is 5 weet 8 BEE
eh aot ct) ee . SMITH. considering a particular profession as| CANADA SETTING THE PACE. : pa :

i VANCE FRASER, his future. life work is naturally in- eee eee Eee
Aa Ol | DORIS MARGESON , terested in several questions: Does} Canada has kept closely in touch] cocjety hae Ceeae Eaibcnatan play
i es i tee oy : this particular line of work appeal to| with the rapid changes in both England] jo97 ‘and eee of the Studentsa’
Society and Girls’ Sport pee Sport Editor. me? What personal qualities are ne-}and the United States. The larger] Council is with the Caleary Power Co

E} P. A, OYLER. |cessary for suecess in it? What is|provinces are setting up _ provincial Calpary. Alberts. os f

eek Yee Associate Editors.

~ a ice .

By

   

"*
are

re
co
ult

ar

.
fe eT,

i
.
oe
o

sae
* ae :
mR steady increase since that time?

| cate, 2 the factors which influence the choice of
_ many and varied and in a great many cases, the reasons whic
wuse the decision, are quite trivial and do not warrant the selection |jts peaks and valleys like the price

Me
i

 

 

a

ae
K
4

  
 
    
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  

he

a

a

4

a

ws

 
 
  
 
    
   
   
  
      
     

3) ey wets ait ;
. BiG ylsi< PBA SE ALLIS RETLM 1 e's
as

- i
ae eo ye,
era won = 4 =
tei eee a

 

cr 2 Lay ES

; . ;

o

    

       

ae
ek a

a

  

—_ rr

CHOOSING A PROFESSION.

me AS |
When one glances at the various faculties of study at
versity and sees many ardent students in each of the differ
anches of endeavor r, the question naturally arises ° What factors
influence a student when choosing a profession? te

ce Why is there such a large enrollment in Medicine at present} profession. How quickly have the

Our future depends entire'y on the particular line of endeavour
which we decide to follow and, although it sounds absurd, many of
us are willing to relinq: ish the study to which we are suited, merely

ore epicurean existence while at the University.

__- ‘yersity life is misunderstood by non-members is all too true. Ee ¢ |
ea ~The Gazette opens it’s columns to controversary on this topic} and later its first distinct special branch,
1d it is our desire that we will be able to establish a more friendly

the outlook for the average man to

the fortuitous set of circumstances
which results in his commencing practice in the right place at the right
time, and possibly, too, the possession
of ample means for post graduate
courses. The fact that one man in a

any | hundred, more or less, is able in a few
ent| years after commencing practice to

pay a large income tax is not nearly so
important as the fate of the bulk of the
men commencing the practice of that

mpared with the small number of undergraduates in the|men who graduated in the past few
fer of Law and Dentistry for example?

years become established? Is_ the
profession overcrowded at the present

_ Why were more students studying Law in 1914 than there time? If it is not overcrowded now,
at present, while the enrollment at the University has shown a}is there such a rush into the particular

profession, that it will likely be over
a profession are crowded when he graduates? The

} | curve which shows the number of
students entering any profession has

trend of a popular stock.
MORE SUITABLE OPENINGS.

Generally speaking, the student who

because it necessitates longer hours while at college or necause the|enters on the study of a profession
fees are slightly higher, and we thereby jeopardize our future for a| after the curve has passed its peak and

is going downward will be more Ikely
to find suitable openings on graduation

ate a os intiatof Thursday, Nov. (ch, axtacles MAY |than the one who enters when the
i which give a survey of the Law and Dental faculties and| curve has been well established in its
ave been prepared with the idea of better acquainting the|upward swing. These are general
with the possibilities afforded by these departments of | statements, applicable to any profession

but it is in their special application
to dentistry that this article is con
cles will appear e r from time to time and every under-| cerned.
entemplates« taking a professional course should | Hs aie
thoroughly with their contents before making a DEVELOPMENT OF DENTISTRY.

_fo understand the present ‘con_|ditions in dentistry it is necessary to
_ | tell briefly this story of its development.

|The story of dentistry, in common
‘with other branches of medicine, is
linked up with the religious orders
from the earliest recorded times until
the late Middle Ages. Then followed

st wee «’s issue there appeared an article entitled ‘“‘Fra-|the period of the Barber-Surgeons

of learning in the colleges, Medicine,

Dentistry, came to be practised by
men who underwent a prescribed course

attitude on the part of non-members towards Fraternities, which] of training and passed certain examin
The fact that the first ental schools

health bodies; education of the public

is expressed in the rapidly increasing
sums which are being devoted to public
dental health schemes. The recent
benefactions, amounting to millions of
dollars, of Mrs. Ward, the Forsyth
brothers, Mr. George Eastman and Mr.
and Mrs. Guggenheim are visible
evidence of this new interest.

UNDREAMED OF OPENINGS,

Dentistry today, as a result of these
far reaching changes, offers openings
which were undreamed of a few years
ago. At the same time changes in
methods of practice have removed
many of the handicaps under which
dentistry formerly labored, thus: The
almest complete disappearance of the
tedious gold foil filling: the increased
efficiency of office appliances, the
rapid advances in local anaesthesia
and the very marked attention now
paid by the public to mouth cleanliness.

RELATION TO HEALTH.

The work of the modern dentist has
attained new scope now that he has
ceased to consider his problem as a
merely restorative one and recognises
its position in the field of general
health. There is a completeness in
dentistry which is not true of any other
branch of medicine. To no _ other
branch of the healing art is given the
thrill which comes with the restoration
to health of diseased organs and also
the replacement of those which have
been lost by the insertion of restorations
which are often as efficent as those of
nature itself. Dental research is so
rapidly expanding that as yet few have
had the special training necessary to
fill the posts. The full time teacher
is becoming more and more. a necessity
in dental education. Public dental
clinics of various types, including
children’s clinics with their special
appeal to women, offer an increasing

iw : erm ties at Dalhousie.”’ when there was little attempt-at super-} number of opportunities for salaried
Poo, The situation at Dalhousie is pretty well ou.lined in this con- gactie the enue wae pypfessed. to Sppeitments.

os *. . = 4 . ¢ . r . ?

tribution and the assertion that the object of this aspect of Uni-|ihe development of systematic courses GRADS SUCCESSFUL.

This, in brief, is the story of the
evolution of dentistry. What, now,
are the answers to the questions contained in the first paragraph? Does a

- have come to stay at “the College by the sea.” ations. particular line of work appeal or not,
ae ae : is something which each person must
aye oe MECHANICAL VIEWPOINT. answer for himself after an investigation

of the facts. The personal qualities
for success are not unlike those in

A. ; in America were conducted without|almost any line of work: ability,

. Le r STUDENT PUBLICATION. close contact with» Universities, and application, personality, careful work,
ee pte aes especially. with their medical]/etc. With regard to the outlook for
i gt ts : ‘ schools, affected the whole course of | the average man it has been said that
i ne _ The oe ee newspapers has come to be a real dentistry for many years. The dental]/a dentist obtains a living from his
toe. * business throug out Nort merica. j view point was mechanical rather than | practice with less delay than in most
ieee eth Oy ‘There are more than four hundred college papers published medical. So long as no attention was] of the other professions and so far as

  
  
   
     
  
  
 
  
    
 
 
    
  

oe

,
»

“A

i

Py

a= .
i me: - oge
rather than the rule. Twenty-four out of twenty-five dailies

---——s working on each paper. There are thirty-two college dailies in the
ees - country, about half of which use the service of some international pondingly restricted. and there was
-_- news gathering organization.
_-_ About thrity-five college papers are published either twice or] out the profession, for the contribution
____ three times a week while more than three hundred colleges have] ‘t was making to human welfare.
____weekly newspapers the system such as is adopted at Dalhousie.| jporTANCE OF DENTISTRY
Nearly a hundred more small colleges have papers coming out liss].
- often than once a week but more often than monthly.
Academic credit for work on college papers is the exception

,
ars, |
Ke ¢

¥

i

,

+
a

ee x

the members of the entire staff.

     
 
 

ae”

     
  
  
  
  
    
     
 
 
 
     
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
   
  
   

He

=

&

s

Sel Fe aes ‘

et

_——s With the approach of the Christmas Examinations, the num-|

s
\

be in vogue again this year.

”

eee

3

_ ber system naturally comes up for discussion, and students in the] ways: The American Dental Assoc_ professional faculties are wondering whether or not this sham will]iation, which consisted of a small

es Bie . ~ ° ‘
at least once a week, with an average of some twenty-five students | paid to the close relation between a

ealthy mouth and a healthy body
the outlook of dentistry was corres
little enthusiasm, either within or with
DISCOVERED.

If these conditions had _ persisted
there would be little incentive today
for the better type of students to

report financial compensation for the editor and business manager,| commence the study of dentistry,
Me Peo divide the profits derived from the publication among} But, early in, this century currents of

thought were setting in which were to

—_ $tudent publications are playing a more important part in revolutionise the practice of dentistry.

When Sir Wm. Hunter, of London,

University life every year and the above figures compiled from a] made his famous address at McGill
_ recent survey show that every educational institution of any con-|in 1911, in which he named diseased
__ sequence throughout the continent has its student news organ.

be ;
Se

teeth as primary factors in a number of
serious systemic diseases, he found a
profession ready to receive his message.
One of the most remarkable changes

isolated organs and, for the first time,
realized their close association with
the body as a whole. This changing
view-point was expressed in many

group struggling along, rapidly expan
__ The number system was introduced with the idea of elimin-|d¢4 until it now has more than 40,000

members. When it was first formed

Saved ee Stet is ec eEy which might perchance | the members were chiefly interested in
aT This arrangement in so far as accomplishing the original motive] terest is in the problems of public
is concerned, has proven a most dismal failure and in very few ex
1s, the examiners are provided with a list of numbers which
respond wi h those used by the candidates.

The result is that the danger which was to have been eliminated
s and many students are unaware that the reason which
he system is being disregarded. iti
n't it be much more satisfactory if the authorities who had had no professional training

mechanical problems; now their inhealth as affected by dental health, in

raising the standard of dentistry and
in furthering research.

SITUATION IN ENGLAND.
England was overrun with dentists

and whose aims were purely commercial

number system to the letter or dropped it al-| Now they are making rapid strides and
a + the changed conditions are expressed

Dalhousie graduates are concerned
most have become established within
a reasonable time. What about the
question of overcrowding? This can
only be answered by a general survey,
since as with most other ways of making
a living there will be a tendency to
over supply in some sections and under
supply in others. With the immediate post war years, as in the case of
other professions, there was a large
increase in dental ranks, which reached
a peak about 1922, since that time
there has been a more or less steady
decrease in the number of students
entering dentistry. This decrease has
been accompanied, as already pointed
out, by an increase in the number of
openings for dentists.

LARGE DEMAND FOR DENTISTS.

The indications are then that, at
least for some years to come, the
world demand for dentists will be

mi that has ever taken place in any pro-jin excess of the number entering the
eb fession then developed rapidly. Den- profession. The openings for grad. Syn 1 he THE NUMBER SYSTEM. tists ceased to think of the teeth as] yates of a dental school such as Dal
housie, are not, by any means, entirely
local. Students there have the privilege, available only to two of the other
four Canadian schools, of writing the

| Dominion Dental Council Examintations during their college course,

which gives them entrance to all of the
provinces, except Quebec and British
Columbia, without further examination. Graduates are to be found in
most of the Provinces, in many of the
States and in England.

Professor Stung.—Dr. Fred Enman, professor of literature and drama
at Chicago Theological Seminary, has
escaped being robbed several times in
Chicago, but on his first visit to London, the bald-headed educator had
to pay 21 shillings for a haircut. ‘‘Unadulterated thugs,’”’ he said, on his
return,

  

ee Fea ed é ea te make a living at it since he, after all,|is proceeding rapidly and, in some Down for Rea Dance.—Biago”
> i ae MADELEINE PAGE, B. A. is the one with whom we are particular- | respects, is ahead of that being done] pya+rison. of the Sollowav Nills Co.
aoe 5 . ly concerned? In every profession | in any other country; a virile national | | ¢q_ ‘St John Office was in the city
ss Business: Manager. Asst. Business Manager. there are examples of men whose in-| association is actively working for the] 9, Saturday for the Phi Kappa Pi
SO ee nee aes —.|come runs into five and six figures,|advance of the profession. Plans are| To. Dance.
- §, W. ARCHIBALD J. R. DONAHUE, g are) Tea Dance.
a Fe Te Oe: Phone Sac. 4086J. _|and we are apt to forget that these are|now well under way for a meeting
5 i ay E Mie . . the rewards of the comparatively few. | next May on London of representatives] Novel Idea.—The newly formed
aye Ney? = Subscription Rate $1.50 per year. The ability to make a large income|from all parts of the Empire, to formu-| Fratority, composed of members of
eee, «a Gazette Phone Sack. 4866. depends on many factors: The skill|late plans for an Empire Association.) both sexes is functioning quite successrue 2° aes and personality of the man himself,| The changing viewpoint of the public] fully, the officers report to the Gazette

The Treasure Hunt of a week ago
Friday was a ‘‘wow’’ we are told.

Hard at Work.—The newly appointed editor of Pharos, Bernie Miller,
is already hard at work planning a
bigger and better Year Book for the
graduating classes of 1930---Good luck
Bernie!

A Gold and Biack Revue.—-The
purpose of The Half Pint Revue was
to pave way for a big original musical
show to be put on after Christmas at
a down town theatre. We hope the
Glee Club executive will take the
idea up and push it like Toshie on the
rocking stone. It is high time Dalhousie had an annual Gold and Black
Revue. There is plenty of talent
right here in college—as the last little
show demonstrated.

_Visiting Betty.—Marg. Mackie was
visiting Betty MacDonald in New
Glasgow, over the Thanksgiving weekend,

At Mount A.—Kay Killam spent
the holiday at Sackville; she was
staying at Mt. A.

Hazel Back.—Hazel Williamson of
class '29, was a recent visitor at ‘‘The
Hall." She was the guest of Phyllis
Brown.

Spent Holiday at Home.—Many
students spent the recent holiday at
their homes. Among these were—
Marg. Kent and Audrey Thomas, who
went to Truro; Lib. Murray went to
Suzzex; Gwen Currie and Margaret
MacLeod to Pictou; Florence Brewster, Billie Kinnear, Yvonne Newham and Dorothy Redmond all to
Moncton. Charlie Stanfield was in
Truro, Franklin Forbes in Moncton;
Art Pattillo and Ross Harrington in
Bridgewater.

—

   
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
   
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 

November 19th, 1929

 

EN
ICTURES
-ORTRAYING
OPULAR
ROFS

 

 

Emily Margaret Lowe, spinster, is
the Lady Warden of Shirreff Hall.

The University Calendar lists her as
Lecturer in-English. Composition, She
does not lecture in English Composition, but is prepared, when the doors
of the Hall must be opened very, very
late at night, to lecture upon almost
any other subject.

It is rumoured that she resigned
from the Department of English not
because she did not like to mark themes
but because she coveted an appointment with the Department of History.
So far as is known, no such appointment has as yet been offered.

She holds the degree of B. A. from
the University of Toronto. That is
the one thing she has in common with
Archie.

Before coming to Dalhousie she had
early experience as a social worker in
the City of the Good, also as a Travelling Secretary of the Student Christian
Movement in Canada. Excellent train
ing for her present work!

She believes earnestly in coffee for
breakfast and in hash for most other
meals; also in sensible hours and in
woollies.

She likes parties—really she does—
and thoroughly enjoys a good waltz.
One of her greatest grievances is that
the college boys won’t ask her to dance,

She is a fair chaperon and a popular
one, despite her addiction to a few oldfashioned beliefs—that dancing hours
should be spent on the dance floor, not
in parked cars; that a dance should
be an exercise in graceful, rhythmic
movement, not a convulsive, synagogic
fit, and so on.

Her quarters in Shirreff Hall are
comfortable and could be cosy... A
few books of light verse lie about
and one or two things of the better
kind, but none of these is to be taken
too seriously. Her prints and pictures
show her taste to better advantage.

A good woman, a good warden, the
years of her authority have seen
nothing but good. Fortunate are the
girls who have the Hall for their home
and our Maggie for their friend.

To Broadcast Debates.—-Democrat
ic Senator Dill, of Washington, has
made a plea that Congressional debates be broadcasted by radio over
a coast-tc-coast petwork.

C, S. T. L. Formed.—Announcement has been made in New York of
tne organization of The Catholic
Students Travel League. .

Goes Aloft.——-Mrs. S. E. Longwell,
of Middletown, Vt., eluded guards
recently, and gained the distinction
of being the first person ever to spend
the night atop the Washington Monument. She has lunch with her.

 

 

 

 

 

THE MEN’S WEAR SHOP

30 SPRING GARDEN ROAD

SOLE AGENTS FOR HOBBERLIN CLOTHES

GOOD NIGHT

 

  
  
 
  
  
 
 
 

DRESSING GOWNS
SMOKING JACKETS

My assortment would
please any College
Student

Smoking Jackets and Dressing
Gowns are great to slipinto
for a hard night’s study

BUY THEM AT

 

Feeling Fit - 
 

>» MUSIC LO.L1mIT 60

a meee

 

The game is half won when you
can enter it with the zest and enthusiasm that comes from being
well equipped.

Make PHINNEY’S your headquarters
for College Sporting equipment, including the famous English regulation football togs

SPECIAL PRICES TO CLUBS

 

  
   
 
 
  
   

YP LOY Da

Ys
su ee oe ae Pe eS en on ee = SSeS i, ‘9 ¢ 3
a . : usin a ne Pe en Pet Aen Cees et Fe dap hb te ie ~ - :
rian = wits, ’ ae. ae ee ss 2 - a er a ==
_—* > eee ek rom “2 mes a ie eee ae ce ee
. igo ee Shahn 57 3 : < : Se a
et. We : re i 4 = aoe nas ot he io ety een a ears F ‘
: a SS a 7 ie 7
Be ras ere as Be OM Se:
=~ ny Pe a . i i r
“ - > cad
- *

   
   
   

Page Three

anip,

o”

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE.

 

 

a

LIFE |

ALL CONTRIBUTIONS FOR THIS DEPARTMENT MUST BE IN THE HANDS OF THE MANAGING EDITOR BEFORE THURS. OF EACH WEEK

 

STORIES
COMEDY
REVIEWS

 
 
    

 

  

       

Talks sans Laryn.—Hereman Schulenberg, 538, Milwaukee mechanic,
astonished the American College of
Surgeons recently by showing them

 

 

   

 

Prayer Answered.—The dying pray
er of Vincent Pannones, of Brooklyn,
was that his three-year old grandson,
Michael, deaf and dumb since birth,

that—what have you done with it—
thrown it away—given it all to one
man Harper—and your poor father

 

TAKEN FROM”

 

Now that the big game

Work

 

   

“The Half

Pint Revue”

home weeping—weeping because your
old woman's peeling onions. Why
you are like a child crying for a Star A
Star 2 cents pay no more and for three
cents you could have an Evening Mail
You don’t stop to realize how many
bluebeans make five. But you will
learn. Learn what? That two can
live cheaper than one at the Hall, pay

is over—we can all settle A BY in advance. Why do you know that
down before the next big when I came to Dalhousie I didn’t
contest, when the profess- PERMISSION have a thought in my head—and now

ers conduct their annual
struggle in the Gymnasium.

WHY BRING THAT UP?
Charlie Stanfield’s iniation

theme song is “I underwear
“my girl is to-night.”

 

_ dance isn’t set as yet.

adh.
es
Cae!

bs 
a

Hiller ‘‘Isn't it great the
next Glee Club show is going to
have a nativity play???’
Holler ‘‘ Yea, I think home
talent’s the best, too.”’

  

Halifax, N. S.—The morning after
the Law Banquet, showed practically | trying to get in booth—dropping par100% attendance at classes.

This 7s

q -“Shirreff Hall girls are being taken,
out a lot lately. The date of their

   
   

Comedy Sketch

By Ralph Morton.

‘CHARACTERS.

Operator—One Who Knows Little.

Gertie, a Shirreff Haller—One Who
Knows little, too.

Kelly—One Who Knows Too Little.

Pay Phone booth at L. Operator
seated before phone exchange. She is
attired in short, very short skirt—reading
College Humour and, horror of horrors,
chewing gum. 
Kelly enters with parcels, Clowning,

cels.

I’m going to complain to Stan Mackenzie. (Looks in book) let me see
S-S-S Stan. There it is Stan Mackenzie S. 300. Operator deposit five
cents please. I mean give me Sackville 300.

O. Sackville 300 ?

K. That’s just what I said, strange
as it may seem.

OQ. You don’t want Sackville 300
do you?

K. Yes, I do want Sackville 300.

QO. Are you sure you want Sackville
300?

K. Yes, I do want Sackville 300.
What is this a game? (Crying).
Looka here if your going to get nasty,
I won't give you any more numbers
and I want my five cents back. For
the last time, on my knees I'm asking

—now I have a thought in my head.
And Herbie Stewart, dear old Herbie.
What does he say? Yes, what does he
say? Dear, dear, dear, in fact too
dear for Herbie. Oh yes, Herbie says
that Jock Cameron is so superstitious
that he got burnt giving a fellow the
thirteenth light off a match. My
dear, its a bad world, but as Dr. Todd
would say—‘‘There’s only a few of us
left.” Do you understand? No, neither do I, let’s continue our lecture
Span in Math3.

G. Say, what are you talking about?

K. Oh, you musn’t mind me.
This is station KELLY broadcasting—
the voice of youth. Are you going
to the Boilermakers Ball?

G. No. Why?
_ K. Oh, nothing I was just wondering whether you were going or not,
that’s all.

G, Well, I'm not Kelly.

might gain these faculties,

A few

how, after being speechless without

minutes later the boy had spoken, and/a larynx for three years, he has taught

gave evidence of hearing.

The big majority
of smokers single
out Turrets as their

_ anews note. KO LO asic’ you, give me Sackville 300! 2% ne. ;
oa: Beer VPSERLOL? O. I’m sorry that phone has been x. No, really I’m not. ,
ees _When RAOrS beautiful O. Lines busy, ates ’ taken out they didn’t pay their bill. K. Gee, that’s fine, I’m awfully choice—they have
_  ___ girls are built they’ll prob- K. But I haven't asked for a num- K, (Fainting) OW! ' glad cause I-I--- Id d
_ —— ably stay away from Dal- ber yet. Enter Gertie, exit phone girl. Gertie} G. What? the mildness an
_  ~housie too. (Not taken O. Deposit five cents please. powders nose. K. Well there’s a great picture

| in ‘4

ort.

ae
en l

_ from The Cheshire Pussy).

There's a story going around about
fellow got Shirreff Hall to answer

the first time he called—but it reminds
me of what they’re building on the

(Business of hunting
Deposits nickel).

K. I want Sackville 7543, no 3472,
no 7621, wait a minute.

(Business of dropping parcels
looking up number in book).

pockets.

and

Do you see what I see?
G. Hello big boy.
K. The answer to a maiden’s prayer
G. You mean the.answer to Murray
Macneill’s advertisements for students.
K. So you go to collitch, do ya?

on at the Scotia that night, Tom Mix
in the Bar Six Shooting you ought to
see it!

(Gertie cries).

K. What’s the matter?

ts t 1 get the
blue’s when it rains.

smoothness that
smokers prefer.

<<
Shs’,

oS a

nat iH . a

himself to talk without such an organ.

< nn at
. aan =

Hi .

: ‘*
eas; .

. << .

ae .
; A
Y tte
¢ s ee

_ first floor of .the Archives Building—j| K. (returning to booth) Sackville] G Yea’ G. Iwanna dance. oe
_ just another storey. 6516. K. I’m not doing anything much| K. Well, you don’t seem to be Set \

. O. Deposit five cents please. either. making a very good attempt at it. igarettes \
a K. Ow! I did just put five cents G. Let's co-operate. (Business of G. I mean I want you to take me See

i.

Po
7
i
*

4

: A. Mcdonald

re ~
i ies ~

in the box. Oh, if I only had that
contraption Jock Cameron uses down
at the Forrest Building. Ah, here it is!

|number was? Oh, yes, Sackville 6516.

handshaking).
K. You don't stop at the Hall, do
you?

G. Well, the nerve of some people.

to the party.
K. On, why didn’t you say so in
the first place ?

G. Yes, weli pipe down it’ll cost

4 3 , : ; :

. ; ‘ nerrd in nickel with string attach- G. Yea. i ; a Renee: aus

- | : . I’m glad you stop at something| | ot oner gimme one. aking

er NIST K Sidkviile’ eh. Sackville Mount| 74 ™ea8—Well, you're just the girl Bie Pier taal “dheae doltdta}

wae) > “TO ONIS' | JK. Sac » wh, Oack ‘ I’m looking for. Do you know an : ey! I paid three dollars for

: : or ECoACONIST A., no what the hell did I say that | good stories? : : those. CIGARETTES

1 de.
fl

| Sac. 428 Har. 107 WHITE SATIN separ
a : (can be dyed LORD NELSON HOTEL
1 regalia te match down) aleo BLACK 3 Our low over-head enables us to offer
— , LAUNDERING DYEING SATIN. KID. etc. 2 SPRING GARDEN RD you garments at a price which larger
LS CLEANING PRESSING ; 3 :

a

1
ee
i
*
i

tributes.

=
.
>

es okers Requisites of every

and important
a fellow looks
‘in football

Our Clothes are

Parlor Togs which
have the same at
Instead
of rough and ready
_the’re smooth and

i . ready and only

|
an.
|
a
i

4 fsr

a
|
we
iT
i

ly
Pd

|

if

{
he
i

j
rE

,
a.

$35 $40 $45

COLWELL

_ BROTHERS

Ay

es

_ LIMITED

 

ee ba ona 2 : ay
a2 ia Ae i ss a , 4 >
huh hte od i s a; i ; < ‘ . . - , ;
a y a a 2 i a Bel: #1 »
fe a ee ee Bt Beet.
Larned ol Cia sar Se hy ihe a a Pl 7 sll =

Line’s busy.

Council meeting. This is disgraceful,

 

 

 

 

a football game.

G,

 

 

 

. Sette deaceistion 0. : : ; K. Aw you got me all wrong, [| you a lot more than that by the time
ey SD eatcke stock. of Pica itte K. Well then give a Sackville} mean do you know any good jokes?|you hire acab to take me to the Lord Mild and Fragrant Save the ralcaive
= Bos and Imported : Kod i ag Slat ayice 3 G. Only the one’s I’ve seen hanging} Nelson. And you're going to like it “POKER HANDS
i ae - 4Jiines . ay ‘ around the Law School. too.
| CIGARS, CIGARETTES K. Ow! ow! ow! this is a nice state} k Yea. Well, I’m not a lawyer.]| K. Yea? That won’t be so hot
@  # ~— and TOBACCOS of affairs. Betty and Hoot _ Mahon I’m a journalist. will it?
Be eee ta —— eo ere See on ee of their eae G. -What’s that? G. Ah, forget it. Let’s tell conunaoe thon talking competitions again this) K. A féllow. with a half starved | drums. ETS Se ee ee ee E
iI 21 Spring Garden Road year. Or perhaps Len Miller’s on the} ook like Graham Allen and able to get} K. Oh, no don’t tell him—he | eb ae 3,
Who mightn't approve ? laconiseceba tetas

 

 

that’s what it is disgraceful. Here oe What. sik o a EC ;
; ‘ i é are you doing around t onundrums.
I've been trying all day to-get hold of | ./.> : G. Oh, don’t be sill. I mean riddles EIN TED Fraternity Pins and Class
a Shirreff Hall girl to get an nee K. Believe it or not lady, I’m| For instance do you know they stopped SACK. 4444 Jewelry are smarter when
with her and the line's been busy. waiting for a street car, the street cars that go down by Shirreff : made by experienced work= Sito ees ete Ya wouldn’t be kidding me} Hall? ; men.
— would ya mister? ; K. No, why? Halifax Only Metered We have specialized in this
| K. I would if I could, lady, I would es a let the people on, of course. Service field for years.
if I could. But say I’m here to inter course. :
BUTTONS ON view you. I’m staff correspondent on = ake it’s your turn. Same Rates 24 Hours. Henry Birks & Sons
the Canso Breeze. <. She thinks it’s a game (aside Two travel for same as one. Limited
RENTS MENDED G. I bet you write some pretty and going R. stage), 3 three dollars, Sioa that ton. 0 cadte ext DIAMOND MERCHANTS
HOLES DARNED snappy stuff. three dollars and have to hire a taxi— ’ : Halifax.
K. My stuff is so snappy lady they ; G, ie forget about what that
, meh bas |. Ne have to print it on elastic paper, and|@@nce willcost you. a
Se ae son send YO R that’s not stretching it either. K. (coming center) Oh, Girt do

Laundry to Ungar’s.

G. Well, what do you want of me
Lord Beaverbrook?

you know the difference between a
Yellow Cab and a street car?

K, I'lljust ask youa few questions, 4 we eae it take t
G. I'm used to that I had a quiz ’ ell, then we ake a stree
VALETERIA Friday. q car to the Boilermaker’s Ball!
A new pressing Service: K. Well to begin with do you

Your Suit or Overcoat
Steam Cleaned and Pressed, for 75c. or 4 Tickets
for $2.00.

NECKTIES, cleaned 10c.

UNGAR’S

Barrington St., Halifax, N. S,

Our High Quality Standard
makes our Low Price
Doubly Attractive

SUITS, OVERCOAT'S
FULL DRESS and
TU XEDO, at one

price
MADE TO MEASURE
Tip Top Tailors
THE STUDENT'S TAILORS

TRAMWAY BUILDING
Barrington and Sackville Sts.

 

realize the golden opportunities before
you—no, of course, you don't—you
have not the keen mind of a golddigger—You forget—you forget the
sacrifices your poor mother and father
made for you—and what have you
done with your money — answer me

 

Evening Slippers

TUTTLE’S

SHOE STORES

25 Spring Garden Road.
557-559 Barrington Street
and Dartmouth.

 

 

 

 

As Usual

The best in Ice Creams, Con
fectionery and Meals, as well

as courtesy, efficent service and

attractive surroundings are to
be had at

The Green Lantern.

The End—and about time.

Freshette: “I hear that you made
the football team this year.”’

the

Rolph: “Yeh, but
others helped a bit.”

of course

A. PUBLICOVER

CENTRAL—The nearest Barber Shop to the College
SERVICE—Always experienced
Barbers at your service
Special Bobbing Parlors
For Ladies at
23 Spring Garden Road

 

PIANOS, VICT ROLAS,
Small Musical Instruments and Victor Records

We invite you to join our

Fiction Lending Library

2 Cents per day

McDonald Music Co.

93 Barrington St. Halifax.

 

 

Nothing But The Best

UE to the carefullness with which our W(7,
garments are inspected and picked
out you see in our windows only coats and
dresses which are up to the minute in

style and quality.

stores can not compete with.

Our aim is to give you coats and dresses
which will please in style, quality and

price.

You will not be disappointed if you purchase your

next garment at

D Sauville’s

HALIFAX
AT 31 SPRING GARDEN ROAD.

AND
19 PORTLAND STREET, DARTMOUTH

All Coats $12.00----All Dresses $24.00

 

 

  
   
  
    
       
   
  
  
    
   
   
  

  

mm Peat

1 s

a

i
‘_)

.

  

ea

Pi
aa .
+

gt

a |

, The Freshmen rugby team covered
_ themselves with glory when they won
the inter-faculty league by scoring a
clean cut 3-0 victory over the hardworking Engineers team last week.
Although the game was played under
_—s- very ~ unfavourable weather conditions
--— «gome of the best football of the year
--—s was’ presented to those* ardent fans

  
    
  
    
    
  
  
   
 
   
  
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
   
  
     
 
   
    
     
  
  
  
 
 
   
   
  
   
  
 
   
 
   
   
 
 
   
   
 
  
   
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
   
   
  
   
   
 
    
   
     
   
  
  
   
   
 
      
      
  
  
 
 
  
  

  
  
     
  
    
   
  
   
  
  
   
  
  

%

ates _who braved the cold and damp rain
to cheer their respecitve teams. ‘
- —~~—:s«&w#RBoth teams lined up with that grim

determination which’ has been Dal_--—~—s housians’ mark of distinction for many
years, and it was immediately apparent
that a hard fought game wouldfollow,
Freshmen took the kick-off and forced
the play into Engineers’ territory.
The Frosh scrum was heeling nicely
and followed up well, and with the
field in such a slippery condition it
was apparent that the best forwards
would undoubtedly carry the day.
_ The play zig-zagged up and down the
field till Freshmen weye awarded a
free kick on their opponents 25 yard
line. The whole Frosh forward line
dashed after the weil kicked ball, and,
taking the Engineers completely off
_ their guard, pounced on the loose ball
and collected the three points which
spelt victory and the league for the
first year men. That try, by Covert
was indeed a pretty play and the
result of persistence and hard work.
The second half opened with Engin-_ eers forcing matters, but their every
4 effort was of no avail for Freshmen were
ah * determined to maintain their slender
————— ‘ Jead. ~=Just before the whistle ended
es the game, the Engineers made a last
“- determined attempt to even matters,
a! but several scrums on the five yard
e line failed to materialize with the
tying score. ‘The result was the Freshmen left the field champions of the
 inter-faculty rugby league. Congratulations Freshmen!!

Banquet _ a
tie 5. aceess

On. Thursday evening,
h. age Dalhousie Law Society held
most successful banquet at the Queen
RU ors cg ;

os, DAB usual, the Law dance was a great

a
A et yn

  

   
  

   
   

Pear ate SACs, {
success both financially and otherwise,
and the lawyers having accumulated
_—~—_- sufficient funds from the said function
a) to hold a banquet, proceeded to do so.
Having danced so hard—with the
assistance of the other faculties, at
their dance—the law students by so
- doing, felt that a good ‘‘feed’’ was quite
™ in order, and a most pleasant way of
disposing of the surplus money in their

: possession,
The banquet was most lively, and
—F the boys, together with the professors
’ of the Law School, formed a most con
genial group.

Joe Mills furnished an excellent proa gram of music during the banquet.
md After everybody had eaten to capal acity—and then some, Dean Smith,
and Doctor Angus McDonald delivered
two excellent addresses to the students.

Toasts were then in order. The
first was to the Law Football Team; the
at second was to the Dominion Law Reas ports; and the third—a toast dar to
ay the heart of the Law School was to
the N..S. T. A.—still dormant.

The banquet then broke up and the
law students are eagerly awaiting
another,

K. 5.5.

Seniors Win
,Continued from page 1

more zig-zagged with neither team
= having any decided advantage in terri‘oe tory until the closing moments of the

er game when the Redlanders put forth
every effort to cross the Dal line.
The Tigers held them in this precarious
position until the sounding of the
final whistle which brought to a close
another chapter in city league footbal
history.

To pick the outstanding players of
the game would be quite difficult as
all turned in splendid exhibitions
during the afternoon. Hunter, MacCoy and Edwards were possibly the
Lt pick of the Reds, while the performance
» —«C: Grant, Macneil and Oyler will long
Th - remembered by Dalhousie supporPa, ers,

‘ian Dal lined up as follows—

. Fullback—A. MacDonald.
Three-Quarters—R, Grant, H. Suth— @rland, A. Sutherland, Drover.
ie -Halves—K. MacMeil, Doug Scott,
Pe bs &. Oyler: ,

_ —~—~—«, Forwards—G. Cooper, W. Templeoe. 1) aD, * Wooiner, G, Taunton, R.

Baird, C. Townsend, D. MacRae.

 

ages Part.—Alois Lang, 38, a

d carver and beekeeper has been
ed to play the part of the Christus
n the cast of the 1930 Passion Play,
_ succeeding Anton Lang, who has been
_ elected speaker of the prolog. The
) men are not related. Anton Lang,
d the United States a few
forced to give up the
uld no longer stand

  

Verdants Defeat
Engineers to win
Interfaculty Award

a S ‘Engineers threaten to score in second half—Covert scores
ee ay winning try

November

 

 

 

Dr. MacDougall
Addresses Phi
Chi Fraternity

The initiation banquet of the Nu
Sigma chapter of the Phi Chi medical
fraternity was held at the Queen
Hotel Wednesday evening. W. B.
Howatt, Summerside, P. E, I., Presiding Senior, was chairman, the other
officers of the Fraternity being J. R.
McCleave, Presiding Junior; Roy Maclean, Halifax, Secretary and A. G.
Giffin, Treasurer.

Several toasts were honored, including The King; Dalhousie by J. R.
McCleave; Fraternity by Robert Ross;
New Members by Ray Maclean and
responded to by Dr. J. W. Merritt;
the Medical Profession by T. T. Monaghan and responded to by Dr. J. G.
MacDougall.

Mr. McCleave in speaking to Dalhousie spoke of the numbers who
claimed Dalhousie as their Alma
Mater 100 per cent, and of those who
are only going to the University to
complete their education, but he said,
“tonight we ,re all for Dalhousie,”
and called on them to drink a toast
to Dalhousie.

Robert Ross spoke to the fraternity
and the members present. He said
that in a year or two the members
would be given their diplomas and degrees which would give them powers
over life and death, also powers to
use dangerous instruments and dangerous materials and how they should
use them for the help and benefit of
humanity. ‘‘Withal,"” he said, ‘‘we
are the slaves to the poorest in society.”’

A medical man must have many
qualities, said Mr. Ross. He must
have the qualities of heart to comfort
the mother with her dying child; a
soul to comfort, see and to feel the attitude of the mother who asks him to
baptize her stillborn son; to help the
dying one starting out on that uncharted sea we call beyond the grave
the tact to explain embarrasing and
‘very touching things; jusgment as to
what to do, when and why to do it;
character to be able to hold sacred
the trust society has placed in him;
the physique to stand up to the demands and exactions of tne profession, admittedly one of the most short
tived known; the knowiedge that a
telephone is to be kept at his bedside
and that when he lays down to sleep
he does not know the moment that he
may be called up to help suffering
humanity; the qualities to work under stress and strain on occasions
where in the end it means that he
only continues to work on sheer nervous force,

The doctor must be able to keep
at all times abreast of the times, he
said, must be able to sift the old and
the new in his profession and get the
best out of both. He must be conversant with every new change and
idea in modern medicine and _ the
courage to use this knowledge to the
best of his ability, and for the ability
to develop and continue to weild instruments of his profession well.

Ray Maclean spoke to the toast to
the new members and said that the
creed of the members should be at
maintain the highest purposes of the
fraternity so that the men of Dalhousie would in future bear witness
to the fact that they possess the ability to attempt and attain the highest
goal that medical men may do.

He—Were you cold coming home
last night in that open car? é
She—I'll say I was—good, and cold.

Fallen one—Darling, whisper sweet
nothings in my ear.
Hard one—O, K.—Sweet Notnings

 

Medicals Elect

Managers

The Dalhousie Medical Society met
in the Health Centre, Tuesday night,
November 5th, with an attendance of
forty members. A barrel of apples
was provided for the boys.

The main business of the evening
was the appointment of Burnell Eaton
and Bernie Miller as Softball and
Basketball Managers, respectively, for
the Medicals. Medicine won the Softball Championship last year and stands
a good chance of winning it again this
year.

Gordon Mackinnon was appointed
to look after Christmas cards and
stationery for the Society.

Two very interesting case histories
were presented the first by Don Grant
of the fourth year and the second by
Stirling Giddings of the final year.
Both were well presented and were
actively discussed by the members.

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Ne eee ne eae

 

 

‘THE MOUTHPIECE |

Dear Editor:

I read the appeal of a Dal co-ed for
a yell and personally I am all for it.

The following si mission is suggested by one who ha the interest of th
University co-eds at ° eart.

“POUSSE”

D’ou viens-tu?

Que fais-tu?

Ou vas-tu?

Pousse, Pousse,

M-E-O-W,

M-E-O-W,

Co-eds, co-eds,

wow, Wow, wow,

co-eds, co-eds,

meow, meow, meow,

pussy cat, pussy cat,

where have you been,

Go-wan-look,

Zippilo, zippilo, zippilo,
-O-R-A

Pourquoi?
Parce que nous y sommes
Boum a-la-ka boum, a-la-ka wah,

Repeat above four times to the
tune of “‘Singin’ in the Rain’’ or “Out
side” and then purchase a one way
ticket to the town across the harbour
after first collecting the balance of
your tuition from Mr. Harper.

Respectfully submitted, by,
Un qui ain’t got ne knowledge pas.

 

 

EDNA PRESTON.

 

Nout Shoe Store

Mr. Sheen Owen of The Men's
Wear Shop, in keeping with his. policy
of catering to the College student,
announces the opening of a Shoe Store
next to his present clothing store at
30 Spring Garden Road.

This store will be as up to date in
every respect as it is possible to make
it.
Mr. Sheen states that he will be able
to give the college student the very
best service. He will carry a very
large variety of footwear and the reason
able price policy which he maintains
in regards to men’s wear will be adopted
at this store.

The Men's Wear Shop has won a
great deal of praise from College Boys
who have been fortunate enough to
patronize Mr. Sheen, and his announcement of opening a shoe store will be
met with a great approval.

This new Shoe Store will be open to
college students on or after Nov. 22nd.,
and all students are invited to inspect
Mr. Sheen’s stock,

Looking forward a few months
makes everyone think of hockey.
The Forum should open around Dec.
1, and the ice will be immediately
available for practise.

Why shouldn’t the year 1929-30
be marked at Dal as the one in which
Dal produced winning rugby, basketball and hockey teams:

 

If You Want to See Well
SEE WALLACE

Optometrist and Optician
Y. M. C. A. Bilbg. Halifax, N.S.

Get Your
Hair Cut

Where you are assured of
expert and experienced service. In other words go to

Shield’s Barber Shops

(Two Shops)
41 Sackville St. and Roy Bldg.

Our Roy Building shop will
appeal to the ladies of Shirriff Hall. Quiet and secluded. Take elevator to top
floor. Marcel, Manicure,
Shampoo, Finger Wave, etc.
by lady operator.

Phone $448 for appointment.

Open Saturday evenings.

 

 

Editor Dalhousie Gazette.
Dear Sir:

‘As an undergraduate of Dalhousie
University I wish to protest against
the series of articles entitled ‘Pen
Pictures.” This attempt at smart
writing deserves notice only because
it is given a place in our college paper.
Judging by the tone of these contributions the writer aims at making
the distinguished subjects of his squibs
mildly absurd in the eyes of the students of Dalhousie and other Universities.

A University paper should keep
constantly in view the creation and
development of college spirit. Anyone who believes that the holding
up of our university heads to public
ridicule will promote such spirit must
be as lacking in judgment and good
taste as the writer ee Pictures,”

Pine Hill Football

The annual Thanksgiving football
game between the Annex and the old
Building resulted in a win for the
former, six to three. Ian Harris and
Char.ey Anderson scored tries for the
Annex, neither of which was converted.
James Jordan Fay scored for the O.d
Buiding in a thri ing ast minute
pay. Watson McNaught, an aumnus of the Od Building refereed.

Just for Fun

Freshman (in library, seeing back
of Herbie Stewart’s head): Say, he’s
kind of old to be a Pine Hill] freshman,
isn’t he?

 

Among the suicides:
[The chap who missed the
Wanderers game last Saturday.

keep liquor in the Law library? Don’t
tell me! I heard one fellow tell the
other he was going up to finish his
case!
J. R.
Passage from ‘Smith's College Chemistry.’’ (Page 70).

 

“And the ‘dry’ land would be un-]|

inhabited if it were really dry.”
Even Smith knew this in 1908.

GARRICK

THIS WEEK
“FAREWELL WEEK ”

Edna Preston Players
“She Walked
in Her Sleep.”

NEXT WEEK

“COME ELEVEN”
DUMBELLS

llth Annual Revue
Seats now on sale,

 

 

FROM THE

WINNERS FROM tr

For 60 years the REACH Trade
Mark on Sporting Goods has been
a mark of perfection. No matter
what your favorite sport may be,
we can supply you with equipment

that will help you play the game
with the best that’s in you.

CRAGG BROS. CO.,

Limited

Hardware and Sporting Goods
HALIFAX, N. S.

The
Halifax Chronicle

AND

The
Halifax Daily Star

The
fastest growing
newspapers in

Nova Scotia

   
   
    

 

 

Ae i SS ee a eS ad ae

—————
— i =

 

November 19th, 1929 .

ee

ORPHEUS THEATRE.

THIS WEEK MON. TUES WED. THURS. FRI. SAT.

“Charming Sinners ”’|““FAST COMPANY ”

WITH
Ruth Chatterton, Clive | LAUGHS! a COMEDY!

ae eae aie Evelyn Brent, Jack Oakie
and Mary Nowlan. ° . ‘‘Skeets’’ Gallagher and

Gwen Lee.

 

A Paramount Picture
NEWS COMEDY

Soono News

Comedy

 

MACLEOD, BALCOM

LIMITED

Greeting Cards
Programmes
Invitations
Letter Heads
Envelopes, etc.
From

NOVA PRINT,LTD

227-229 HOLLIS STREET

are delivered
WHEN PROMISED

     
   
 
    
  
   
     
   
  
    
       
   
     
       
             
        

34 Morris Street
174 Spring Garden Rd
203 Young Street
Cor. Quinpool Road
and Oxford Street
and Bedford

 

Lord Nelson
Hotel

(The Social Center)

CASINO

Entire Week
NOVEMBER 18

3 shows daily 2.15-7.15-9.15
Mats. 15c.-35c. Eve’s 40c.-55c.

AL JOLSON

The World’s Greatest
Entertainer in his new
Sensationa! Hit

‘SAY IT WITH SONGS’

with
DAVEY LEE
| MARION NIXON
| HOLMES HERBERT

The Ideal Atmosphere for
your Saturday Evening
Dance, or at any other time
or your Bridge parties,
Dinners, Dances, Etc.

AFTERNOON TEA,

Orchestra—4.30 to 5.30

SUNDAY CONCERT

9 to 10 p. m.

FRED HOLDER

Sci cotheeennctta

 

WASH DAY ?

Students ! The next time you want your

Laundry finished in a hurry
and want it done neatly——-—Call the

HOME LAUNDRY

‘For Particular People’’

 

70 Bilby St.
Phone L.233!
Dry Cleaning, Sponging, Pressing

Men’s Dressing Gowns
$7.50 to $22.50

These gowns are made of rayon or fancy woolen materials in very pleasing patterns with contrasting turnback
collar and cuffs. Fancy silk cord around waist. Sizes
36 to 44, Each $7.50 to $22.50

Men’s House Coats
$6.50 to $15.00

Nice and comfortable to wear around the house in the
evenings. Of velvet or fancy woolen materials. Velvet
coats in black or wine shades with black silk facings.
— coats have contrasting collar and cuffs. Sizes
36 to 44.

Each $6.50 to $11.00
Eaton’s Main Floor.

ms

Oo

  

“T. EATS

   
 

Es

     

acs iinet am ta, a
