 

—
Ss tir
yee 
mes

.* a og
4 x
- oF, “

ni

: * =
‘ea. J
an in. bie a4 p

VOL. LXHT.

 

=

EN
>

HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA, OCTOBER 15ru, 1929.

THE OLDEST
COLLEGE PAPER

IN AMERICA

 

No. 2

 

ERROR TIES DAL - ACADIA FIXTURE

To Our’ Football Team

Athletes Are
Guests at Glee
Club Opener

GLEE CLUB HOLDS FIRST SHOW.

The Dalhousie Glee and. Dramatic
Society held its first regular meeting on
Friday in the gymanasuim before an
enthusiastic audience. The visiting
athletes of the afternoon's Interscholastic meet were present as special guests.
Much appreciation was voiced about
the new, pleasing, if vived, drop-scene,
and this appreciation was later expressed
in the concrete when the hat was
circulated and a generous sum collected
to help defray the expense of the
curtain,

The main feature of the evening's
varied programme was a Qne act play,
entitled ‘The Man in the Bowler Hat,”’
by A. A, Milne. It is doubtful if anyone, before the performance suspected
that the practical President of the
Students’ Council dreamed of romance
in a moonlit garden, or that an M. A,
student longed to have duels fought
for her sweet favour. Yet Miss Hanifen and Mr. Jennings revealed this
surprising tendency in their apparently
simple roles as. Mary and John. In
strong contrast to-them were the
highly dramatic Hero and Heroine,

iayed by Mr. Allanach and Miss

urrie. The four parts blended very
well with the wickedness of: the chief
Villane and Bad Man, Messrs Smith
and Thompson, the whole piay was
skillfully handled and the characters
ably harmonized. withthe personal
direction of Mr. Clyde Dougias, who,
as the man in the Bowler Hat, brought
about, in a single speech the surprising
anticlimax. ;

Dong Gibbon sang a couple of light,
very entertaining songs to his own
banjo accompaniment, which _ were
very well received. When ‘“Ke.ly
came on fcr his few minutes, one really
thought that the secret. financial
machinery of Glee C.ub was to be
dragged into the open. Instead the
audience was given a very clever
account of Mr. Morton's “Camp at
Silver Lake.”’ ;

More than a word of praise must be
given to Mr. John Budd, whose ensemble of collegians promises great
things. .Mr, Badd’sewerk is extremely
artisti¢, a flaet. “sometimes ‘overlooked
by .thése who criticize the futuristic
musig of which ne isan exponent.
No one can say, that. Daihousie is not
musical when she can produce an
ensemble, three members of which are
not Satished to play one instrument,
but must alternate between two or
three, tendering a song composed by a
Dalhotsian to words written by a
Dalhoisian, the concert arrangement
being made by a Dalhousian. 
The very «Successful evening | was
brought tea close with an hour’s dancing to thé*musie of Don Murray.

Freshie - Soph.
Another Best Yet

The annual Freshie-Seph Dance was
held tast night, with the usual .arge
crowd in attendance; The music was

rovided by Joe Mi:ls and his orchestra.

he Gymnasium was decorated with
goid and black, end was altogether
unrecognizable The guests, Class ‘33,
enjoyed themselyes perhaps because
the “lordly Sophs” did the entertaining
This is the occasion, which marks the
official closing of the “hazing’’ of the
new students. The chaperones» were
Dr. and Mrs. Hugh Bell, and Professor
and Mrs. Murray MacNeill. The
committeé in charge was headed by
Drummond Eaton, There it allisina
nut-shell, and what more coulda person
say?

 

 

 

Track Meet
Huge Success

CONGRATULATIONS
COMMITTEE.

The sports committee in charge of
the interscholastic track meet held at
Studley last Friday are deserving of
great credit for the excellent manner
in which the different events were
conducted.

Due to the engeretic efforts of those
in charge, the meet was pronounced by
all as a decided success and we sincerely
hope that it will be an annual event at
Dalhousie from now on.

Rugby Coach
Discusses Old
Football Days

By DR. KIRK MACLELLAN

 

You have asked me to write something for you about the team of 1908.
| presume you wish some comparisons
made with our teams of the present.
You will pardon me if | write of the
period from 1900 to 1909—rather than
of the season of 1908 by itself.

When I was playing foot-ball and
other games it always .was a keen
source of annoyance to have an old
timer teil me~how much superior the
players of his days were to the players
of my own. “Remembering this feeling
so clearly | shall try to avoid falling
into the same ditch. The players of
the present year are as good as any who
have ever worn the yellow and black. The
team however is not up to the standard
of many teams of the past. I shall try
to show just why this shouid be so.
What the reasons aside from the
obvious one of poor coaching.

From 1900 to 1909 the back fields of
the various Dal. teams were made up
almost exclusively of Halifax city boys.
These city boys were not naturally any
better than the boys from the country
but they had a great advantage, At
that ‘time the” Y. MM. C:- A. Nad an
athletic field in no way inferior to the

Wanderers Grounds. Membership
eost W41.25, so that all could benefit.
Here little shaverg from nine or ten
years of age up, formed themselves into
teams/and leagues,

There were the ‘‘Alerts,’’'‘ Victorias,”’
Arnold School, Harrow House School
~ Phienix” (a- north end club), Y. M. C,
A., and several ‘of the common schools
had teams. Good football was played
by these ‘boys and they were close
students of the game. Each boy had
his idolen some one of the senior teams,
whom he strove to emulate. They
learned by imitation, which is natural
to youth, These youngsters had in
addition, the advantage of seeing good
footbail played .by the senior teams.
When these boys came to college
they were Weterabs at 'east in knowledge of the gamejard in ball nandling
(which aimiost a lost art). This
preponderance of city boys did not
apply to théyforward\iines. In spite
of Y. M. Cy A» grotinds and other
advantages the Cowntry boys had something of ruggedness and strength which
the city life did not develop.

Each year a suffierent Number of the
preceding years forwardiline was left to
break in new blood, in order to fill the
gaps. There would ‘b€-veeruits from
the other Coileges as weil as the.players
from the second team” who™hadedleveloped in experience and) strength,

The older teams had other advantages. At that time Dalhousie opened
its term about the first of September.
We had a much longer time to practice,
before the opening of the football
season. In addition the faculty were
much more considerate in regard to

Continued on page 4.

is

Pen Pictures of Dalhousie’s
Stalwarts for Present Term

Giving the boys the once over.

George MeLeod. :

This yeaf’s energetic captains George
is enterigg his fourth senior rugby
ear at . Jf-past records are any

dication of the future, great things
may wéll be expected from George this
year, for he can always be depended
upon to use his head. .

Archie MacDonald.

- Archie is well kitown to eVery football fan in the college. A fine punter,
sure tackler and can he run? This

. a

will also be Archie's fourth year appearance on the Dal tine-up and undoubtedly he will live up to his well-earned
reputation.

Eddie Ross.

This will be Eddie’s first year with
the first team. If Eddie makes out as
well in the games as he does in the
practises, he will certainly give a good
account of himself. Everyone is expecting great things ef ‘‘Kybo” for he's
ag tackler, fast runner and a hard
worker,

Dontinueh On page 4

Here’s to those who play the game,
Who give their best for Dal.,

They're faithfui, loyal, plucky, brave,
They'll win, we’re sure they shall.

Don McRae
Archie MacDonald
CLyde Townshend
CHarlie Jones
HarQOld Davidson
DoUg Scott

They who practice in the mire
In rain and wind and sleet,
Will sure oust the opposition
And run them off their feet.

TIGERS
29---30

Art Sutherland

Eddle Ross

RobErt Baird

Jerry Taunton

Frank

Wishart

GeorGe MeLeod
William WolnEer- Harvey SutheRland

Henry TownSend

 

 

Big Game Sat i

English Rugby, Football is the “big
game at Dalhousie. There can be no
disputing that fact. All that is needed
for proof is a game in which the Tigers
play their old opponents, the Wanderers
The cheering hundreds of students
that urge their team on to victory
never turn out in such numbers for
any other line of sport. And so next
Saturday, we expect to see an exciting
game and a big crowd. Every girl at
Shirreff Hall, every man at Pine Hill,
every man and girl in the city should be
there.

Sina Singer will be there with his
Couege Band. The. Cheer Leaders
will be there to lead the yells. It is a
most important game for the Tigers,
and this means they must have proper
support. Bring your horns, bring your
whistles, bring your lungs!

Not even Stan Mackenzie
his attendance credited unless he turns
up and cheers the Tigers on to victory
on Saturday.

On Courtesy

will get

Rugby is a funny game; ~~
It's played by men of steel.

At least I think that is the name—
That one with sex appeal,

The girls ail love.to watch their men
Get plastered up with mud,

Or have their noses broken, when,
They're tackled with a thud.

Oh yes, they love to watch them play,
And carried off the field,

They are the gentler sex, they say,
Yet to them always yield.

But if we didn’t have the girls

To cheer in treble key,

Amidst the bloody rush and swirls,
Oh! where would football be. ?

 

Acadia Misappropriates Try
Which Deadlocks Score in

Interesting Game

Tigers Get Early Count when
from Five Yard Scrum.

MacRae Retrieves Loose Ball

Halifax Collegians Indignant

following ‘‘Retraction of Decision’’ by Wolfville
Lineman.

 

Reliable

Above is shown a group picture of all

ofthe reliable Acadia limesmen who were
available for the Acadia-Dalhousie foot
ball game on Saturday of last week.

—

_|Juniors Win

\From Acadia

We wish to call attention to the rather discourteous treatment which was meeted out
to the Dalhousie supporters on Saturday at the Acadia athletic grounds at Wolfville.
After a steady stream of self sacrifices involving buying gasoline, oil, fixing tires,
purchasing meals etc., we were greeted at the entrance of the grounds by several students

who demanded 50 cents as admittance fee.

were assured a seat on the grand stand,

free to the game and to the grand stand.

im our eyes.

After delivering the said amount we

On entering the grounds we were greatly
surprised to find the bleachers already occupied with Acadia supporters including a
large number of screaching freshettes and freshmen who we later found were admitted
After being ordered around by some so
called officials including the coach and the freshmen we finally managed to collect
three score or so of our own supporters on the opposite side of the field—with the sun

Here we thought we would at least be free to cheer our players on to the

victory which they deserved—but no, apparently our fifty cents did not even entitle
us to an uninterrupted view of the game, for ten or more insolent freshmen pushed
And was the loud Acadia yell given when
Charlie Jones was injured on the field in good taste?

Acadia will return the visit a week from Saturday and they may rest assured that
after making an expensive trip they will be treated courteous! y and entertained as

and ordered us about like so many sheep.

welcome visitors, as they always have been in days gone by.
cessviely taxed at the entrance to the grounds.
lo them for their own exclusive and uninterruped use.

They will not be ex

‘They will find a special stand alloted
They will find that Dalhousie

students will bear their share of the expense by paying for their own grandstand s pace.
They will find no discourteous and insolent Freshmen ordering and elbowing them

around.

In their place will be found courteous ,efficient and well known up per
classmen who consider it their duty to see that the visiting leam and supporters get
proper treatment, while they wear on their arm the gold and black ‘‘D"’ given them as

officials of D. A. A. C.

We look forward to the visit from Acadians,
with the treatment received while at Dalhousie and hope that they 2

contrast.

We trust they will be

 

Lost and Found

LOST—A perfectly good chance to
win a game on the Acadia football field.

LOST—On Saturday afternoon, Daihousie supporters lost complete confidence in Acadia linesmen.

LOST—About fifteen miles west of
Windsor on Saturday, of last week,
absolute faith in the judgment of some
too ardent Acadian supporters.

FOUND—A place where sportsmanship is ali too readily ‘relinquished for
a mere three points in a football contest.

FOUND on Saturday October 12th, a
grandstand full of Acadia Freshmen
and Freshetter—said grandstand facing
hundreds of Dalhousie supporters, who

were standing on the opposite side of
the field,

Schedule

Tues. Oct. 8—1 p.m. Fresh vs. Medicine
Thur. Oct. 10—Arts vs. Dentals.

Sat. Oct. 12—12.30 Law vs. Engineering
Tues. Oct. 15—1 p. m. Atrs vs. Law.
Thur. Oct. 17—1 p. m. Medicine v. Eng

Sat. Oct. 19—12.30 Fresh. vs. Dentals.

Tues. Oct. 22—1

Dentals.

p. m. Medicine

Thur. Oct. 24—1 p. m. Fresh. vs. Law,
Sat. Oct. 26—12.30 Arts vs. Engineering.
Tues. Oct. 29—1 p. m. Arts vs. Medicine.
Fresh. vs. Engin.

Thur. Oct, 31—
Sat. Nov. 2—12.30 Law. vs. Dentals,

Tues. Nov. 5—1. p.m. Dentals vs Eng.

Thur. Nov. T—
Sat. Nov. 9—

Fresh. vs. Arts.
Medicine vs. Law.

Vs.

|
|
|

et

 

| fine plays
impressed | game.

will profit by the) about the last minute of play, when

 

Second Team

- The Dalhousie Intermediates chalked up their second victory, when they
snowed under <Acadia’s. Intermediate
teamt by a 12-0 score. The game was
fast throughout with the Dal scrum
working we:l and getting the bati out
clearly.

Dan Fraser scored first for Da! on
an individual effort and his score was
quickly followed by. a pretty place
kick by Grant, a touch by McNeil, and
a beautiful effort by Dover, which
resulted in another three points,

Fwd’s.—Cooper, Templeman, Conrad, Magonet, Grant, MeCullah, Mushkat,

Quarters—Dickie, Nickerson, McNeil

Halves—Grover, Oyler, Gass, Thomp
son,

F, Back—Goudge.

The Glee Club Band under the
direction of Sina S, Singer will hold a

 

'rehearsal in the Munroe Room of the

Forrest Building on Wednesday evening of this week at 8 o’ciock.

It is the imtention of the Band
management to have the band attend
the Dal.-Wanderers game at Studley
on Saturday next and a full turn-out
is desired.

Interfaculty

Football

Prospects for an enthusiastic inte:
faculty football season are brighter
than for many years. Last yeer, it
will be remembered, Arts. won the
league after a_ heetie play-off with
Dentistry, and three games were necessary before a winner could be decided
upon. This year each téam is re
ported strong and confident of topping
the league. ;

Things
Tuesday
Medicine
was very

started off with
when Freshmen overcame
by a 3-0 score. The play
even throughout and many
were evident throughout the
The result was doubtful till

a bang on

Freshmen grabbed a loose ball and
plunged over the line for the score
which spelt victory.

“Gee, but that was a tough break
for Dal.” “Not a tough break, Mae,
but an out and out mistake’ wae one
of the hundreds of similar remarks
flashed back and forth between. the
spectators at the conclusion of the
great Dal-Acadia game at Wolfville
on Saturday.

In the opinion of many, this game
will be held up, in years to come, as
an example of the importance of
obtaining linesmen who not only understand their work, but whose integrity
is unquestionable. Although not wishing to cast any reflexion on the Acadia
.inésman in, Guestion, yet there. are
many, who without hesitation claim
they saw him raise his flag to denote
that the speedy Eville had carried the
ball off the-field and then, seeing that
he had broken through for a touch,
quickly -puiled- down nis. flag, and
allowed the play. to pass as O. K,

Whether this was tne. case or net,
it was this play. which sfatched victory
‘from the fichtine Tivers and dead
locked another Dal-Acadia game with
a three-ail score.

The game itself was complete with
all the thrills of.a closely contested
English Rugby match. Fast half line
rums, good kicking, speedy following
up by the forwards, fair tackling and
“tough breaks(?)'"’ kept the large
crowd of fans right ‘‘on their toes.”
All in all it was a game long to be
remembered by ail those who witnessed
it:

Dal started off in the first hald with
a bang, and pressed hard till the asert
forward, Don McRae, grabbed a loose
ball on Acadia’s five yard line and
plunged over for the three points
which made the Dal rooters yell with
joy. All went well till about ten
minutes before the game ended when
Eville, the fastest man on the field,
grabbed the ball at centre field and
completed the play already described.
With the score standing 3-3 the game
developed into a real ‘‘agressive”’
affair on the part of both teams, but
the deadlock couid not be broken.

Every Da: man turned in a fine
game and the fifteen players worked
asareal team should. Special mention
should be made of the effective heeling
of the Dal front tiners, Baird and H.
Townsend, the tackling of Eddie Ross
and Charlie Jones, Art Sutheriand’s
kicks from behind the scrum which
reieved many trying situations, and
Don MacRae’s pretty touch.

“Hard luck” is too inexpressive a
word to describe the result of the game.

 

)

Outstanding players were hard to
'choose as each and every man on the
| field turned in a very creditable game.

Line up:—
Medicine—
Pwd's.—Gaum, Stewart, Andrew Mc
Curdy, V. Fraser, Messiish Calver.

Quarters—Giddings, McDonald, Brodin,

Halves—M. Fraser, Woods, Murray,
Douglas.

Fullback—Outhouse,

| Freshmen—

F wds.—Anderson, Covert, Bard,
Doyle, Teasdale, Cunningham, Mc
Guish,

Quarters—Stoddart, Scott, Cooke.

Halves—Gosse, Thompson, Fraser,

McDonald,
Fullback—Cristie,

 

Captain Grateful| Manager Requests

Fellow Dalhousians:—

[ am taking this opportunity of
thanking you all for the generous support given our team in the two games
played thus far.

Your hearty cooperation is most
essential. Many a titie has been lost
due to indifference on the part of the
supporters. I know that this will not
be the case with Dalhousie this term,

The players are most appreciative
for the interest displayed to date and
with your continued support we will do
our utmost to present a showing ‘of
which you may all be proud,

G. C. Macleod, Captain.

 

Support

Dalhousie has always been a keen
contender for Rugby honors.

The coaches agree that this year we
have a championship team.

Good players are not sufficient to
win a title. In order to do this the
team must have the whole hearted
support of not only the Student bady
but the members of the various jacylties as weil.

We are depending on your support.

E. L. Gielding,
Mgr.

 

J

 
   
  
  
 
  
    
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
   
   
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
  
  
   

a, a ee ae Penge a pee ie & ri
Say a « ae i. 7 me ok A tae 7 = *
fe hs Se aie ae > 3 F | Re
ae ee DALHOI
ere oa
an re i
9 - 2 Fi ' i ie i be
; BS ANY [= Bit Av rt ee :
a ANS ~~ wh oH FP
‘i Gazette |
Lg Yemen Ss ‘<a ale
(SEM echeae 5 |
“The Oldest College Paper in America.”
Ae Prime Te ee sie ie + The annual meeting of the National
Editor. be Managing Editor. pee of Cenanen University
‘ SaaaRa a ee . Voubere _|students this year was of great impor
. ‘OSH, B. sc. ae “ SS A. | tance as, immediately following it,
c, 8351. , ; PHONE. Pak. Ove: was held the Second Imperial ConAM ee ae ference of Students, at which students,
ties oe 3 News Editors. — from the important universities of the
i i he _J.L. DUBINSKY. British Empire convened. Both meetoS => “KEN. SMITH. ~ ings brought Wgrthet representative
~ VANCE FRASER. students and real progress was made
Dt ae ey ee {in furthering student relations.
Sport Editor. yk i Nes vi By Soeieence are
from September 2 to 4 and then ad‘ _ PLA OYLER. |journed until after the Imperial Con‘ erence which was in session from
“sy S Associate Editors. Se
, | ptember 6-16. ;
fi ‘ : MADELENE PAGE, B. A. It is impossible in the allowable
a _ GORDON HARRIS. space to detail the work of the two
Poet A. conferences. All. that can be done is
= Business Manager Asst. Business Manager. to give m Eales outline of me Senne
Be eet e with a few comments. During the
> ei a Ph fee bee. conference the students were the
Fa Re ig . nae. ae guests of oa Dey the
a A ao he students and faculty of which di
Poy am Subscription Rate $1.50 per year. everything in their power towards the
a | SUCCESS and pleasure of these meetings.

A REGRETABLE CONDITION.
Pe i ,
_--—-s ‘Phe issuing of a special football number seems to be inconie sistent with the holding of classes on the same afternoon on which
the senior team is playing. |
———-—s- You will at once conclude that the Gazette is either over-_—__— estimating the part played by football in the “Life of a little Coll---——s ege”’' or ‘‘the powers that be” have greatly underrated their place
_--—s in’:«;University Jife by not co-operating with the rugby manage_--—s ment to the extent of discontinuing classes for the afternoon.
_-~——s«&Everryone knows the tremendous influence which a crowded
- * grandstand of ardent supporters takes in winning a football match.
eas The players are (as a rule) supported in their every move and
-_—s-thereby urged on to the accomplishment of otherwise impossible
SU BIARS Ee cy. gy,
_-~—_--It is also unanimously agreed that football is a decided boon
to the college—but without the support of the student body, the
team necessarily suffers—and conditions such as existed on Wed__nesday last, are both regrettable and unnecessary.
a i _ Attendance at a football game is usually accompanied by
r re innumerable thrills, but when a spectator has to be continually
watching the gate to see if any of the Professors, whose classes he
Se oot skipped, is going to catch him maliciously watching his own
a i ege team playing, much of the usual interest is consequently

;
— es
a ~. By ,
ke = seeking? ero
a re - ~~ a ~ i ; 7 lip 53."

oc BS o o re 5 = iy . .
baa jc ewe > OUR-FOOTBALL TEAM. ’
eet MOL RSS edaiy ok 3
cos ie Oey

ex

ir,

“x

J
:

+


ig cforts-to bring our University to the fore in athletic activities.
_ Daily, th > members of both the first and second teams may be
d earily up and down the Studley gridiyon under the
on of Coaches MacLellan and MacDonald. The

sacrificing both study and ‘recreation in order that Dalhousie will
make a showing of which we may all be proud. The least we can
_ dois to lend our earnest support. .

Oe rs |
One unfortunate incident in connection with Wednesday’s
game at the Wanderer’s grounds, was the unsportsmanlike attitude
adopted by many of the college supporters towards some of our
players who were fumbling plays with uncanny regularity.
Ae Disappointment on the part of the spectators is a natural
sequence to plays of this type but the remedy does not lie in shrieking, “Yank him,’’ etc. The players in question were giving of
their best and were started by the coaches in an attempt to find
 asuitable filling for an existing vacancy. |
_ -~——s«sThe first game of the season is invariably a try-out one and we
should all realize that the resulting disappointments were potential
_.___-world beaters before the game began. 5 Wh:
_ ~~ Let us try and be more forebearing and show both the coaches
bt ep and players that we entertain the superlative of confidence in this

_—_syears aggregation.

=
° “
P3394 f°
i i
=
.

_ THE BRITISH COLUMBIA TRIP.

___- One of the longest trips ever taken in the interest of sporton
this continent was taken by the Dalhousie Tigers in December,
__-:1927, when they travelled 4,000 miles and back to play English
Rugby Football in the West. Leaving Halifax on the 17th of Dec_ ember—they arrived back around the first week in January after
| -—setwice «crossing this great continent and visiting every important
city in Canada.
ae The trip was highly successful. It was unfortunate that
Dalhousie lost two games but nevertheless the fact remains that
our boys after playing a strenuous season in Nova Scotia, after
writing examinations just before leaving, after a tiresome nonstop 4,000 mile trip, managed to twice tie the crack University of
_ British Columbia Team, the Champions of the Pacific Coast and
_ to add further to their handicaps they were forced to play on a
snow covered field. ,
_ Dr. Rankin the genial coach, Bill Winfield, the manager of

the team, a representative each from The Halifax Herald, The
Halifax Chronicle, and the Canadian. National Railways took the
trip along with the players.
_ In Vancouver the boys were entertained at the homes of
_____ prominent students and many teas, dances, drives, and entertainments were given in their honor.

_-~—“C(A:«trip was: taken to Victoria and here also the boys were
____ royally entertained with tea fests and dances.
a _ _Butit was the meeting of the East and West student that really
: British Columbia, Saskatchewan,
* oO

s
B.
~~

,

\%
AS

aie
> ~
ee Yan 7
se
Le

*

aie

Pas
a. re


ioe igi:
ih 6

e.

J

npiew

; {
a)

| rey made the trip worth while,
_-Manitoba and McGill came to know Dalhousie as they had never
Se 2 ene wn her before—through personal contact with Dalhousie’s
f "py eehting. men. _The boys who played for Dalhousie were ambassa_ dors of good will and taught respect for the Gold and Black wheref ever they went in Canada.

_- And our men learned something too—they learned of the
tness of Canada. They learned how student activities are
u sted at other colleges and they made many lasting friend
d now there is talk of Vancouver returning the visit. That
thing and everything should be done on this side of the
“ courage hvu Mesa nee

mderstood that plans for coming in May are practicall
as far as t e University of British Columbia is eaieetyere is a great deal of doubt and uncertainty

‘pec the year the visit is proposed.

am UF
. +

a

‘time o

our college fifteen is due the utmost credit for their un
ng unselfishly of their time and efforts. They are

SIE

“Say al ito rn ll

——__—_ . = we .

ale 4 “eee : ; 7 —
‘. 7 ae see ee '
i " Ieee ~~ Se = — ‘

i ; is or :
ni a i ‘ f i Gora"

GAZETTE

j
£

_ || Dalhousie Representative Impress
ed with N. F. C. U. S.

Accomplishments

 

After an official welcome from the
University of Montreal, the Canadian
Conference began on Monday September 2, with the president, Rev. L. J.
Green, Bishop’s) in the chair and representatives of seventeen universities
present, The secretary read the officer’s report for the year which showed
much progress in the many aims of the
Federation, but that there were many
difficulties before the organization.

The subjects discussed in the report
included publicity, athletics, debating,
reduced railway rates for students,
student travel, finances, co-operative
purchasing and exchange of students.

The last item is one of the most important and the most complicated that
the federation has taken up, but the
officers reported the scheme has been
made effective, and that this exchange
will take place between the University
of B. C. and McGill and Toronto.

The consideration of the report

brought on discussion which led to a

wide exchange of views and the formation of many plans for future activity
Publicity—A committee was appointed by the chair recommended that
news items be sent to the local representatives and these items would be
inserted in the college paper and daily
press of the locality. The use of
the radio, where possible, was also
stressed.
_ Athletics—An All-Canadian InterCollegiate Athletic Union, for waich
the federation had been striving was
reported to be still unaccomplished,
Reduced Railway Rates—It was
found that the only students for whom
reductions were at all possible were
those under the exchange scheme. §
Student Travel—A committee appointed to look into this matter, interviewed a number of transportation
companies and announced that tney had
received favorable returns from the
White Star Line. The travel plan
will be worked out in detail and further
information will be sent to the representatives at a later date. i
Constitution and Finance—This
item brougnt forth a gread deal of discussion, A committee was formed
which recommended the formation of
an endowment fund of $5,000 to carry
on the work of the federation. This
recommendation was adopted by the
conference.
Commission on Student Problems—R. D. Choquette, Secretary. of

this commission re

rted that a number of universities had written concerning problems which they had and the
secretary urged that all constitutent
members send in full information
concerning student activities at their
uniyersity so that the files of the commission might be complete.

Imperial Conference—The plans
for the conference were outlined by the
president and the secretary of the
federation, Percy Dairies, and Pierre
Boucher were elected official delegates
to this conference. .

“At a session of the Canadian Federation held during the Imperial Conferenee, the following officers were elected
for the term 1929-1930:—

President—L. C. Carroll, McGill.
Vice-Presidents—Pierre Boucher, Montreal Univ., and Douglas MacDon
ald, Univ, of B. C.

Percy Davies was returned to office
as Secretary-Treasurer of the organization.

The Imperial Conference of
Students

~The Imperial Conference brought
together representatives from all parts
of the British Empire and as might be
expected the discussion was _ very
general and dealt with national and
international student problems, ‘This
confererice is scheduled to be called
every five years and Canada was greatly honored in being the first Dominion
to act as hosts to the delegates.

At the sessions of this conference,
business took the form mainly of resolutions favoring certain activities of
organizations concerning university students and recommendation for the more
efficient working of international student relations. It is only possible here
to mention a few of the headings under
which discussion was carried. These
included debating, means of financing
subjects, and method of conducting
the same; university sport in its international aspects; student travel, including organized tours, steamship
concessions, student immigration and
exchange; student problems, scholarships, loan schemes and many other
angles of student activity and interest.

A number of the sessions were set
aside for general international and
imperial questions. During these sessions, overseas settlement, trade within,
the Empire, the League of Nations
and Naval disarmament were discussed.
On the latter subjects it was found
that the delegates from Great Britain
seemed to have a most adequate and
general knowledge on World affairs,
and they were able to give lucid and’
convincing addresses on international!
questions,

During the Imperial Conference, the
delegates were guests of numerous
organizations in Montreal and Ottawa
and the degree of hospitality meted
out would be impossible to equal.

Your delegate considers that he was
greatly honored in being chosen “to
represent Dalhousie University at the
Conference, for it was impressed upon
him many times that the “Little College
by the sea” is well and favorably known
not only throughout Canada, but also
in the different corners of the British
Empire. FRED C. JENNINGS.

 

 

Portraits of Former Dental
Deans Unveiled at
Re-union.

 

One of the features in connection
with the recent Dalhousie Reunion
activities was the unveiling of the
portraits of Dean Frank Woodbury
and his successor Dean Frank W.
Ryan.

The special address which was read
by Dr. A. W., Faulkner reads as follows:—

Mr. Chairman, Mr. President, Fellow
Dalhousiand and Guests:—

As a member of the first class in

Dentistry to be graduated from Dalhousie University, | have been accorded
the proud privilege of unveiling today
the portraits of Dean Frank Woodbury
and his friend, co-worker and successor,
Dean Frank W. Ryan.
* Side by side did they give thcir long,
faithful and untiring labours in the
interest of the profession of dentistry
in this Province, and together did they
freely give of their unflagging interest
and well-directed effort in the establishment of the Dental Faculty of this
University, which has in its short life
of twenty-one years, supplied over onethird of the registered dentists of this
Province. The history of the Dental
Faculty, from its inception. as the
Maritime Dental College in 1907 until
the death of these two men a decade
and half later, is largely a record of
their activities.

At the time of the organization of
the Dental School, Dr. Frank Woodbury was chosen to fill the position of
Dean. To his initiative, his unswerving loyalty, his marked ability as an
organizer and administrator, and to
his genuine inspiration, the school in
four short years had become so established a centre of Dental Education
that negotiations were consummated
with Dalhousie University to the end
that the erstwhile Maritime Dental

College became a full-fledged Faculty
of the latter institution. Dr. Woodbury continued as Dean under the new
order, and by his genius and independent spirit, gave dignity, honor and
Tespect to the young and growing
Faculty, until at the time of his death
in 1922, the School was recognized as
one of the best on the Continent.

In 1922, Dr. Frank W. Ryan was
selected to carry on the work so ably
initiated by Dr. Woodbury. His ability, breadth of vision, earnestness and
industry soon won the esteem of his
co-workers, and his unostentatious,
frank and lovable disposition endeared
him to all who knew him. One of his
outstanding characteristics, was nis
uncanny faculty, marked in a degree,
of resolving situations almost instantly
to their essentials. His death in 1924
was a distinct loss to the University,
and to us who knew him intimately we
may well say in the words of Joseph
Howe “he lived, and died, and made
the universe his heirs.”’

In the lives of these two men we have
an inspiration to higher and nobler
ideals; a stimulus to effort; and an
example of faithful devotion to duty,

 

Fat MacKenzie says that Glee
Ciub stage isn't big enough, and Fat
MacKenzie ought to know. Furthermore, Mr. MacKenzie wishes to deny
the statement made by a prominent
Freshman, which went to the effect
that ¢ was Stan’s son.

Now is the time for every noble son
of Temperance to vote for the cause,
and to line up on the right side. Yea,
but which is the right.side-.

 

ee del

}
a

1
ae

* * ree: ?
:

Seen

  
   

  

Introducing
FRED. C. JENNINGS

Introducing Fred C. Jennings, who

will again this term be one of Dalhousie’s big butter and egg men. His
many conquests in recent years, allied
with the fact that he is this year leader
of the council, combine to place him
again in the Hall of Fame.

~ Fred, who is better known as Freddie,
has splashed about considerably in
many and varied pools of endeavour
since coming to Dalhousie. .

Glee Club enthusiasts rightly refer
to. him as the John Barry of the Maritimes, while -medical students, Newman
Club members and his Fraternity
brethren invariably speak of him as
their redheaded prexy.

Apart from having presided over
practically everything at Dalhousie
except the Maccabean Society and the
most recently instituted girls soronity.
Fred has guided the distinies of this
news medium for one term.

_ To mention his prowess on the gridiron is analagous to a_ policeman
going for a walk on a holiday. It just
isn’t necessary.

_ Regards women, genéralized specialization’”’ seems to be his slogan and of
nothing, versatile, and not nothing,
that’s Fred.

Last year he was understudy to
Doc. MacKenzie, N. F. C. U. S., representative and consequently he represented the college at the conference
held recently in upper Canada, and of
which a full account is contained on
on this page.

The above, Freshmen, outlines briefly
our council President, so you can rest
assured that you will be carefully
guided during the present.term,

Staff Congratulated

Many have been the congratulations
received by the Editors of ‘‘Pharos’’
the Dalhousie 1929 Year Book, but
perhaps the. greatest tribute to their
work is that given by the Manufacturers of the covers of our Annual. This
firm wrote for samples of the book,
explaining that they had taken particular care with the artistic design and
manufacture of the covers, and were
anxious to see the book made up.
On being supplied with the finished
product, the wrote saying they were
delighted with the make up and whole
arrangement of ‘Pharos’ and congratulated the Royal Print & Litho of Halifax, on their splendid contribution to
the work. They asked if they might
place the book on display in Toronto
at the All Canada Printers and Stattoners Exhibit. And so ‘Pharos’’ won
its way to the Queen City, where it
was displayed as one of the finest
pieces of book work turned out in
Canada during the vear.

——

= ll

a

October 15th, 1929
College Briefs

Returns to U. S. A. Miss Anne
Bell, Class '29, returned to New York
recently, after spending a short time
visiting her parents in New Glasgow.

 

Home Again. Andrew Munroe,
Comm. ‘29, returned to Westville last
week. He spent the past month game
hunting in Northern Ontario.

Teaching in N. Y. Miss Muriel
Donohue, M. A. '28, recently accepted
a position as instructress in a girls’
private school in New York City.
Good luck Mu.

Has Recovered. We are glad to
report that Coach Dr. MacLellan, who
was laid up last week with a severe
cold nas completely recovered and has
resumed both his professional and
athletic practices.

 

Working here.— Rand Matheson,
Comm, '29, is employed with Pickford
and Black in the city.

Coming to Halifax. Miss Mary
Bell, B. A. '28, has accepted a position
with the social service department of
Halifax. She will return to the city
next week.

 

Receive Princeton Daily.

The Gazette office has received copies
of The Princeton Daily—the student
publication at Princeton University,
New Jersey. These come through
the kindness of John Morton, Science
'29. One issue in particular is worthy
of note, for it contains an illustrated
section on the game between Princeton
and Amherst.

 

On Staff.

W. Graham Allen, has consented
to act as News Editor of the Gazette.
Mr. Allen formerly held this position
at the time Fred Jennings was editor.

Rushing Season.

Fraternities are now busy“ rushing”’
Freshmen and there is keen competition
this year, due to the fact that there
is splendid fraternity material in the
new classes,

Bring on the Band.

Students who turned out to Wednesday’s game with Services and those
who made the trip to Wolfville on
Saturday, were disappointed in not
having Sina Singer and his College
Band in front of them during the
games. The reason for the band not
being present, we understand, is that
officials of D. A. A. C. failed to ask
Mr. Singer in time to get his musicians
together. This is an oversight on the
part off D. A. A, C. We are glad to
hear that the Band will be on hand for
the big game with the Wanderers.

 

 

 

Hello Everybody!

Welcome Back To Dalhousie —
And newcomers too—-Dont Forget
This is the Best Place in town to get

MEN’S WEAR

THIS WEEK

 

Our TUXEDOS are the very latest.

Get one for the Law Dance.

 

THE NEAREST MEN’S CLOTHING STORE
TO DALHOUSIE.

THE MEN’S WEAR SHOP

30 SPRING GARDEN ROAD
SOLE AGENTS FOR HOBBERLIN CLOTHES

FOOTBALL
SUPPLIES

> MUGIE LO.LImIT Eo

 

 
       
 
   

  
  
  
   
  
   
    
   
  
  
   
 
   
  
   
 
  
   
  
   
  
 
  
  
  
  
   
 
    
   

OLUMN

Last week, a Dalhousie

student was arrested for
_ driving a car with 16 pass- engers in it. The magistrate said there was not
sufficient evidence to con-—s viet. The accused offered
ss to go get the 16 passengers
-—~——s Robart MacDonald would
- have considered 16 a lazy

man’s load

~

_ Acadia is a spiendid college to go to
- —once a year for a football game.

Chemistry enthusiasts report that they
miss the daily debates, pro and con,
between Sophie Tilier and Dr. Todd.

The Hash Howl hasn’t started yet
at Shirreff Hall. They say that its
going to be called by a new name this
year. Stew bad!

‘‘Just some good clean
pun’’ said Marg. MacKie
. to Graham, as she told him
_ ~~ a brand new 1928 joke.

One of the best ways I know of solving the road problem between here
and Acadia, is to put Wolfville nearer
—_— Hatifax.
_ Imagine the first Freshman
_ ~———s Class party with 25 girls and

7 200 men—and they still tell
us a girl is easy to get. Yea

The Gazette pays its usu
: _ al high rates for contribu
tions sent in for this department.

 

  
   
  

ey

‘BUTTONS ON
RENTS MENDED
HOLES DARNED |

   
  
 
  
   
      
    
  
   
  
   
 
  
 
 
 
   
 
     

 
 

iS i
ni
4

x :
re he
~~ at.

fs j

‘Phat’s the service you get

“a free when you send YOUR ©

|| Laundry to Ungar’s.

a oY ;

i {| A new pressing Service:

ae | Your Suit or Overcoat
if. ab Steam Cleaned and Presie sed, for Tic. or 4 Tickets

for $2.00.

‘ as ] NECKTIES, cleaned 10c.

|| UNGAR’S

|| Barrington St., Halifax, N. S.

Sac. 428 Har. 127
_ LAUNDERING DYEING
CLEANING PRESSING

——}| Americans always pull—about coming

|| Nova Scotia Technical College
: Offers ENGINEERING COURSES

In CIVIL, ELECTRICAL, MECHANICAL and MINING
To Dalhousie Students with Engineering Diploma

Modern Equipment, Instructing Staff with Industrial Experience
. Tuition Fee $75.00 per year. Twenty-five scholarship of $75.00 each.
. Write or call for Calendar or advice

4 :

~HUMOR
JOKES —
SKITS

r

A Novellete Complete in this
By JOSEPH COLLEGE. —

Whoopee—here we are again, looking over the new crop of freshettes, saying
“Glad to see ya back” to girls ya just nodded to as ya passed ‘em in the hall last
year. 1 mean the Arts Building Hall not Miss Lowe’s—the one on which Archie
is always opening class room doors out at you and saying “kindly refrain from
disturbing my class,’’ while a couple of Sophettes get red and giggle in the corner
by the radiator. You know what I mean. |

But say, ain’t the old place changed- I Yellow Cabbed out from the
C. N. R. shunting works and | thought the Engineer in charge of Buildings and
Grounds must gave gone cuckoo with all this building boom and what not.
And did you cast your lamps on the snooty Kings’ hang out. Say! that sure
makes the old Birchdale dump show up like a 1908 Ford alongside of Georgie
Brooklyn's Stutz.

   
   
   
   
 
 
 
 
   
    
  
   
 
 
 
   
  
    
  
  
  
   
   
 
 
 
    

You know Georgie don't you-——
well if you don’t you soon will. Georgie’s a coming man, he is—yea you
guessed right, a freshman, One of
those brainy Mammy’s boys—millionaire’s son type from Ontario. His old
man's one of the be-whiskered, high
collared guys that has his picture
hanging down in. the smoking room,
graduate of ‘78 or some such year
back in the days when Murray Macneill
used to skip classes to play cribbage.

Of course it ain’t Georgie's fauit.
He never had’a chance—been kept in
Sunday School too long, and he ain’t
forgiven me yet for telling him that
Snirreff Hall ain’t for gent boarders.
See he graduates from Miss Fleming’s
Select School for Young Gentlemen last
year and tnis summer while you and
1 have been sweating over selling
aluminium in Cape Breton—he's been
touring Europe. Well, it seems his
old boy drank in some of Stan's College
Spirit at the Re-union and so nothing
would do but have Georgie swell our
ranks this fall—loyalty to Alma Mater
and all that ga ga. : ;

A big Stutz stopped: ‘Boy,’ Georgie
began, putting his head on the side,
“kindly direct me to Mr. Mackenzie’s
office.”

“Whoa!” I yelled as 1 opened the
back door and jumped in, not so fast,
Freshie—there’s a line-up two deep
outside of Stan’s office right now.
What’s your trouble—”’

Trouble,” squeaked Georgie, why
there was no one down to welcome me
when. I arrived at the Lord Nelson.”

“Dear me, think of that!’’ 1 sputtered, whata catastrophel”’

‘When I wrote Mr, Stanley, or what
ever you call him, I told him that I'd
be in at the hotel around 0.15 and
that he’d know me by my scarlet
blazer and intelligent appearance—and
do you know, there wasn’t a soul
turned yp.”

“Well,” I apologised, seeing that
Murray Macneill and Miss Lowe and
the S. C. A. had fallen down on the
job, “Singer and his Band haven't
arrived yet and you'll have to excuse
us—we're a little upset—just getting
back you know.’ I tried to pass it off
as wellas I could. ;

“On! That's perfectly. all right—’
Georgie continued undaunted, “But I

across on the Mayflower. The kind
that got kicked out of England to come
across, and they’ve been making everybody else come across ever since.

That riled me, I can almost stand
MacOdrums lectures, but | can't stand
a young flapjack of a kid getting off.a
line like that.

“Say!” I bellowed, Let up on that
history bunk—teil it to George E. in
History 1. You're just plain Brooklyn
to us here at Dalhousie and the only
Brooklyn we ever heard of is a bridge
in New York and some of 'em ain't
even heard of that. You gotta wise
up son, if you want to get a head here—
cause | see you need a head badly, and
this is the place to get one.”’

Georgie got real uppish at that,
“T'll have you reported,’ he squaked
as he ran to find Murray Macneill,

Some of the Sophomores were eying
him closely as he neared the library
steps and were just going to spring on
him.

“Can it’ I said, That poor Bingo
doesn't know what it’s all bout. There’s
only one bit of medicine needed to fix
him.”

‘“What-”’ they asked in unison,

* Murray Macneill,” I said. When
Georgie lands out here after he’s finished
his registration there'll be no need of
any further initiation,’’ and with that
I walks in behind to see the fun,

Georgie stepped up to one of the
profs,

Il am here to register. My name
is George Reginald Brooklyn. Kindly
tell me the amount | owe and [| shall
deliver my cheque.

Sit down, Brooklyn,” Hugh Bell
barked, and fill out these forms,”’

Oh, I haven't time to bother now.
Have them sent to my room at the
Lord "

Sit down,’ repeated Hugh as if
he was giving a talk on smoking in the
gym. and with that he pulled Georgie
toa seat and gave hima form.

Break Number one,”’ I says to
Tommy Goudge as I watched poor
Georgie. That lad’s getting a rudimentary knowledge on how to act in
the presence of the great. registrar.’’

Georgie worked over the green and
pink and yellow and all the other color:
ed slips they gave him for a few hours—
was a little disappointed.” Oh, by|he spoiled some—he gave up five or
the way, what’s your name, boy?|six times—he scratched his head—
Mine's George Brooklyn, son of T,| borrowed a pen from a fellow freshman
Gordon Brooklyn, manager of the} who later pulled Georgie's chair from
Brooklyn Suspender Company, direct under him, leaving Georgie to apprecl
descendant of the Brooklyns of the|ate this delicate bit of high school
truest of Empire Loyalist stock—and | humour while sprawled on the floor.
then hé pulled the line—get-rich-quick Georgie crawled to his feet, tired,

wrist watch crystal broken, blood on
his arm from the glass scratch, ink on
his hands and shirt, tie misplaced and
hair ruffled,

I shall have to see the registrar
immediately’’—he pleaded now
Get in line, there are only 214
ahead of you.”’ Doc Nichols drawled
out, Tempus fugit.”’

Poor Georgie, he got shoved down
to the very last in the line. He was
just debating whether he had better
give his place to a belated boney armed
F. H. SEXTON, Pres. aes when she jabbed her lanky

arms into him and as Georgie Lind
 

FARRELL’S LIMITED, Tein VALUES”
College Supplies oe cee kext Books

NOTE BOOKS OF ALL KINDS Flexible a es Leaf Note Book, large
BEESIAL LAB” BOOK Tea fhe can 100 ahaa”
Loose leaf refill for all kinds of work. heavy bond paper.
Fountain Pens and Pencils $2.85
Fountain Pen Repair Specialists. Smaller size, 5x8}, complete as above
Crested College Stationery $2.50

NOTE—The economical practice for any student is to buy our large (8$x11) L.L. note book for
which we can supply refills for any kind of work.

at | FREE - With College supply purchases of $5.00 and over - FREE

a ; Enough Fountain Pen Ink tolast gy, hand tinted framed picture of

“ag r the full term—put up in the Shirreff po for the girl
students

  
  
  

co. New Wahl Well
? Only a limited quantity—-get yours early
GOOD READING MATTER costs very little at FARRELL’S LIBRARIES

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE.

of a Little College

ALL CONTRIBUTIONS FOR THIS DEPARTMENT MUST BE IN THE HANDS OF THE MANAGING EDITOR BEFORE THURS. OF EACH WEEK

‘Georgie Goes Through the Ropes

(WITH APOLOGIES TO SEWELL FORD)

33

Issue.

berged aside—she jumped into his
place.

Three hours later, George, disheartened and humbled got near to the
throne.

Next'’ came the clear, crisp, abrupt
cry of the registrar, having been given
his cue by the artist in the 1929 Year
Book,

Name.”

George—-sir,”’

- Your information is astounding-’’
Murray grunted as he pinched his
little glasses on, and squinted up at
poor trembling Georgie. Miss Jenks,
hand me Mr. George’s record. Humph
Why your name’s not George—it’s
Brooklyn. That’s one thing you've
learned today Mr. Brooklyn. Now
with that information we can get ona
bit. I see you have quite a liking for
Latin—you made 19 in it at R. M. C
Why didn’t you write the Provincial
Examinations—”’

I didn’t know there was one,’
Georgie stammered.

‘That's rather unfortunate for you,”’
snapped Murray in his best of Frigidaire tones. We'll put you down for
Elementary Latin,”

Please sir—if you’d—if it’s just
the same to you I'd like to—’”’

You'll be taking Chemistry 1 as a
subject and we'll trust you with French
1 until Christmas—now for an elective.”

Please, I'd like something easy—"’

Murray didn’t move a muscle.

We have no easy courses at this
university. One class is the same as
another. Humph, let me see,"’ and
here he rubbed his face until his fingers
reached his cnin when he gave it a
little customary pinch. li put you
down for Math 8,”

“But—but—”’

“*Well-”

““They say it’s rather difficult.”

Who's they-” grunted Murray.

A stoney silence.

Murray continued, “There’s no
trouble with Mathematics 3, asong as
you follow the assignments. But what
is this- Ah, mmmah Mr. Brooklyn,
here—you haven’t completed matriculation.”

‘“What-"' Georgie turned as white as
a sheet.

“You are only a special student as
far as we are concerned, I don’t know
whether we'll allow you to enter or
not.”

‘Please sir, what can I do about it-’’
Georgie was nearly ready to cry and
pass out.

“I don’t knew, it’s not up to us to
solve your problems, Mr. Brooklyn.
You might write a letter to the Com
mittee on Studies and Attendance.
Next.”

Georgie, bewildered and humbled,
came out a different boy. He had
taken his first course at Dalhousie,
and say, it had done hima heap of good.

‘Please sir,’’ he spoke meekly to me
“would you like a drive home-”’

I winked at the boys. “Sure GeorBic, old timer, give me a lift in your

ig boat. You've gone through the
mill—you're one of us now, me lad.”

And all the way home I doped him
up about Murrray being a swell guy
in spite of his gruff exterior, and all
about Murray’s hobbies and pranks and
tricks, and how to fix things up—and
how to act with the boys—and say,
didn’t Georgie drink it in—well you’ve
seen American tourists listen to in
formation on where to get stimulant
And Georgie’s going to be a big lad
| think so anyway and
l ought to know—he’s lending me his
raccoon coat for the football games—
and spare change—and say Georgie
isn’t such a bad chap. He’s learning

 

on the campus

 

As Usual

The best in Ice Creams, Con
fectionery and Meals, as well

as courtesy, efficent service and

attractive surroundings are to
be had at

The Green Lantern.

 

   
       
     
     
       
   
  
     

PIANOS, VICTROLAS,
Small Musical Instruments and Victor Records

We invite you to join our

Fiction Lending Library

2 Cents per day

McDonald Music Co.

93 Barrington St. Halifax.

   
 
   

STORIES
COMEDY
REVIEWS

the principles of generosity, and helping one’s fellowman out of difficulties,
and what he’s learning from me ain't
hurting him.

Now I'll have to sign off for a couple
of weeks. The editor has run out of
space. My next story will be “Down
where the vest begins’ or ‘How
Herbie Stewart spilt garlic and a new
Scotch joke.”

MATH 1C.

Prof. Henderson—‘Now watch this
problem closely. Your number upstairs.is 4786 and the number downstairs is 7421, Now do you understand?”

Shirriff Hall Freshette—No, that’s
not right. Our number is 6534 upstairs and downstairs its 6516—But
don’t call around dinner time.”

YELLOW CAB

LIMITED

SACK. 4444
Halifax Only Metered

Service

Same Rates 24 Hours.
Two travel for same as one.
More than two, 20 cents extra.

 

 

Page Three

ET

 

  
     

|

ov”

RATHER CUTE,

 

 

Dr. MacKeen (when dismissing the
Bacteriology class for the usual {ten
minute smoke)—‘' Now gentlemen you
may each reach for a lucky instead of
a loop.”

TRUE VERDANTS.

Acadia is proud of her freshman
clan, Yes, we admit that the specimens on hand Saturday sure had all
the earmarks of real verdants.

TRULY GRATEFUL.

The football coaches are sure getting
a big hand from many fond mothers,
who were afraid that their ‘dear
prodigals’ might make the. senior
team.

a= bs POO
OGDENS a Sg iy LIVERPOOL

 

BIRKS=—

Fraternity Pins and} Class
Jewelry are smarter (when
made by experienced workmen.

We have specialized in this
field for years.

Henry Birks. & Sons

Limited
DIAMOND MERCHANTS
Halifax.

 

D Sauville’s

31 SPRING GARDEN ROAD.

Dresses

$12.00

ONE PRICE
ONLY

 

ONE PRICE
ONLY

We have the very latest in Sport Dresses — Just the thing for
Football Games.

THE NEAREST LADIES STORE TO SHIRREFF HALL.

D'Sauville’s

LADIES’ GARMENTS.

 

 

ae

ee

 
  
 
  
 
 
  
  
    

2s | Rugby Coach

| Continued from pagel

four o'clock in the afternoon, By 3,30
50 were out practising—catcning punts,
0 ppicking up, passing, dribbling, scrim
at |formations etc. By 4 o'clock or 4.15
.|the practice would start and it kept up
~ Charlie is fill djuntil it was so dark that play could
outside half, and well, keep|mot continue. Everybody was absolut‘on him when the ball gets out | ¢ly physicalry fit, and the second team
TT, ar ein kept the.first team fighting all the way.
Ree ee s No man ever lost a class on account
err Giuies 219% 9 TT,

of attendance at football practice. In
‘a ee Meee gh aH the once one Law Faculties lectures
—-s»* Woug is another man who is breaking | were carried on from seven to nine in
xe aha: ae cr rae this Gear the evening to make up time. This
tf ; Last year Doug had a successful year pees until os peason. wee over
‘ on the second team forward line, and an 6 champions ip won—as it was,
-_ geems much faster this year. It for 10 consecutive years.

ie ? a oood man to | _ These older teams had the advantage

    
 

   
 
      
     
       
 
  
     
   

Rarer) be:
Je

 
 
 
  

 

    
  

   
     
    
  
    
      
    
    
     
       
    
    

man to successfuily tackle Doug

 
   

when | way, and we are hoping | of much better support from the student

' Pe pare e ths eaee, a e ; body than they have to-day. A

se i pee eats ad 2 ar my practice created more enthusiasm than
- _ Harvie Sutherland. does a match to-day. Every practice

Be: A .

(rain or shine) was attended by practicaly every male student—as well as by
most of the professors. I have seen
the old campus in a downpour of rain
lined with students under umbreilas
watching a practice and cheering for
their favourities until the last whistle
blew. Practices and games were played over, and fought over, in the students
boarding houses nightly, and teams
picked by the humblest freshman.

At the present time we practice at
the lunch hour, There is not even a
clear hour. The prayers straggie out
to practice as they are let out of classes,

The late opening of the college means
that a team has to be picked before the
players are properly in condition, A
player on the second team makes a
nice play—The coach seeing a first
team prospect switches him over to
“first’’ in order to try him out. By
the ‘ironey of fate the ball will go
anywhere but to the man he wishes to
watch. The two seasons before the
present one it was not possible to have
a full practice as there were not enough
players to make two full teams, There
is a big improvement this year in this
respect. It is important for the boys
to keep turning out even if they dont
catch First or Second. They learn the
game and the faithful will catch the
first team some other year if they keep
coming.

The teams from 1900 to 1909 were
superior for the foregoing reasons.
They were not better stuff. The
machine was in perfect harmony then;
now even by the end of a season, a team
is still not a smooth functioning machine
It is rather fifteen separate men each
doing his best, as he sees it.

larvie is again holding down his
d job ofblock quarter and this, _ his

d year on the first team certainly
e a real “best-yet” one. If there

x: is anyone who can manage the scrum
on the field its Harvie, for he is “on
Boe ps teeyears gos

| __ Art Sutherland. —

‘This will be Arts fourth year on the
ss Dal first team. Last year Art was

 
 

  

  

  

          
      
   
     
     
   
   
      
     
     
 
  


r

op 4s ip.

fe - @ main-stay on the half line, but this
_-——-year -he is holding down the job at
yah picking quarter. ‘here certainly wont
Spade. be a weak spot in that part of the line| sup while Art is there, for he has been
showing the best of form in all the
 Practises.
Harold Davidson.

_ “Davey” last year proved one of the

best kickers on the team. His ability

at flying quarter is unquestionable,
____and he should prove one ot the teams

best men this year. Davey knows
_ how to handle a football.
Rael

r
a9

 
 

Don McRae. .

| —s Last year Don made his first appear) < ance on the Dal lineup. This year,
however, Don is even showing much
pet Fo better form and is putting lots of pep
_-—s in «the practises. To put it mildly
vas. ae ‘in the pink’ this season and
that’s "nuff said,”’

Bee a MOE &

Bob Baird. ae

| ———s«#Bob is again back at his old job as

|  . “front liner,’ and with his experience

| —— of: last year behind him, great things
are expected! Bob is indeed one fo the

_ quickest heelers Dal has had for many a

Bae Tere 2

  
 
   
 
  
     
    
 
 

dy

  

 
 

  
 

Cid ty OR eos >
mes _ Henry Townsend. ; E. K. Maclellan.
ay ay : =

   
   
  

Henry is again pairing up with Bob|
on the-front line. What is true of one | 3
At The Garrick

* js true of the other for Henry is aiso
To the lovers of a real drama, of
‘situation that deal with life itself,

---- a fast ee worker and has a
Kipling’s great drama ‘The Light

fine habit of always being where the |
ah ball is. a Cet Ne sa

  

William Wolner.

ss Centre lock is again to be filled by the
man who. turned in such a splendid
|  aecount of the job last year. Wolner
; certainly puts the weight in the scrum
| ~~ and has always turned in a good all
Edna Preston Players Commencing
Wednesday Matinee, at the Garrick
Theatre, will undoubtedly be saits
       
   
   

ae ef factory.
' _- found'game. - ‘It is ge easy te for actor to
ee et an follow the role of Dick Delhar, made
Frank Wishart. famous by Sir aeons Forbesa Sag ey 7 Robertson, but James Gordon Coots
et Frank Wishart. began his football handles the role exceedingly as may be

= ee : . i cl tar ’ a it Z
oe tn foe wa Sie eo tt ae judged by the remark of the’ Toronio
| —_—sihe has appeared full of energy and hard
work and will undoubtedly keep up
_ the good work which he began last year.

_ Jerry Taunton.

| ———sdJerry Taunton played last year with

a Mt. A. where he established an en
_ ~~ viable =reputation for himseif. Since
~ his arrival at Dal this fall he has helped
-—s ifiven up the practises with the result
that he landed a birth in the scrum.
He certainly is a big help to the scrum.

. ‘* Clyde Townsend.

Saturday” made upon his performance
in that city. ‘‘The honors go to Mr.
Coots who has never done a_ better
piece of work in his many dramatic
successes.”’

Not only to Mr. Coots but to the
entire company, this great play of the
‘old school” offers posibilities for
their best dramatic work of the season.

a :
: ri

 

Our High Quality Standard |
makes our Low Price
Doubly Attractive

~~" ‘ oes Townsend is coeamne fe

‘baa _ second year at senior rugby and is| || - Y
‘ . ~ holding down his last year’s position SUITS ’ OVE RCOATS
- “tailing up’’ in the scrum. Clyde FULL DRESS and

a has always been a hard. worker and
; iy trike his brother Henry is always on

TUXEDO, at one

Sl _ the ball. Clyde's experience of last pr ce
_- year has been of inestimable value to
I $24
2 ‘ _ Arts and Dents battled to a scoreless MADE TO MEASURE

ae oe, aBunrdey. The game al
though the first interfaculty game for = ;

‘these’ er ve season, was fast Tip Top Tailors

aot ‘throughout, and gave the spectators . INT” 2

~~ many thrills. Both teams are looking Re Oe he LALOR
_ forward to their next meeting when TRAMWAY BUILDING

_ the question of just whicn team is the Barrington and Sackville Sts.
_ better wiil probably be decided.

  

 

 

 

Appreciation of the finer things
in life will eventually lead you to

buy your clothing and furnishings
Rabo e *s-5 > eG

    
     
 

| COLWELL BROTHERS. Ltd
|| -—s«483-457 BARRINGTON STREET
Be Clothiers and Haberdashers since 1891.

meet
ar
Se een a4

 
 

tran.
i

a

Ne ee eS

tee ‘time. Practice was set for

That Failed’’ as presented by the}

 

 

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE October 15th, 1929

ORPHEUS THEATRE.

THURS., FRI. and SAT. ALL NEXT WEEK.

7 : “MOTHER’S BOY”
ecorge palicro t Starring Broadway’s Golden
fat Tenor

MARTAN DOWNEY
“‘The Wolf of Wall Street”’ A Pathe all singing, all talking

Picture

_ Coming to the Orpheus

 

     
         
           
    

most famous tenor, sings several of his! radio singer, in the cabaret scene. The
popular songs in the Pathe all dialogue story of “Mother's Boy’ deals with
picture production, ‘‘Mother’s Boy,” | cabaret and tenement life in New York.
which will be on view at the Orphus
theatre ail next week. The theme song
which he sings with spiendid effect at

the bedside of his supposedly dying
mother is ‘I'll Always Be Mother's ARRIC
Boy,” and there were few dry eyes

among the watchers during the filming

 

MORTON DOWNEY, Broadway's | ar sung by Mildred Hunt, a noted

 

of the scene at the Pathe sound studio : “PARAMOUNT NEWS COMEYD”’ ** Par t N ¢ *

in New York. THIS WEEK COM. Wednesday Pe as eh a
Another popular song rendered by

Mr. Downey in the fashionable cabaret The Great English Drama—

 

 

scene in the picture, is ‘‘The World is From Kipling’s St
. < .tor
Yours and Mine.”’ In his love scene ae :

dpposite him, he sings’ with, fing c||) “The Light that Failed’ | |{ SHIRREFF HALL

pression, ‘‘There’li be You and I.”

NS

CASINO

Ladies of Shirreff Hall are invited

 

Other airs heard in the producti Made Famo is W
are “I’m FE Th P 5 buction us b to try this new Barber Shop. Ex- This eck
n unny at Way.” and SIR JOHNSTON
“Good Littie Bad Littse You.” s a perts who make a specialty of
oO ad Littie You.” These Mond
FORBES-ROBERTSON Bobbing awaits your pleasure. onday-Tues-Wednesday
Marceling, water and finger wav- éé
———————————_—_—_—_—_—_—_—_———— ing, shampooing, mancuring, etc. 4

Special Inducements by lady operator. Take elevator
Next Week e to top floor.

For Students ||| «« EAST IS WEST” | | Roy Bldg. Barber Shop

Sackville 448 for Appointments

 

DEVILS”

A picture of a thousand Thrills!
Starring

JANET GAYNOR

AT
9 ts ee ay ee | |
TUTTLE 5 ||| If You Want to See Well ||||- ““ BROADWAY ”

Thursday-Friday-Saturday
SHOE STORES | SEE WALLACE | 100% Talking and Singing, with

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

;
| |
25 Spring Garden Road. Lord Nelson Optometrist and Optician ) buale eee once ; |
557-559 Baarington Street Y. M. C. A. Blbg. Halifax, N.S. ]]| || "Y°YP -Pren Ean DEPOSE|
and Dartmouth. I Spe eee ze !
Hotel ————ne ee (The Social Center) WINNERS FROM THE Ree are’ i eo aeee
LORD NELSON HOTEL At cae. ESR MACLEOD, BALCOM
23 SPRING GARDEN RD. The Ideal Atmosphere for For 60 years the REACH Trade |
eee ay. re ait g Mark on Sporting Goods has been LIMITED
‘ at any other time ¢ ark of pertecti N atter
nae nearest Bar- for your Bridge parties, eek etclite ahore mathe .
er Shop to the College Disnevd.: Dances, Etc. : ma BVO ES Cee ae ee 34 Morris Street
SE RULE 0 Mlidee’ et iestanced we Can supply you with equipment
WG Aes ce oie cet that will help you play the game 174 Spring Garden Rd
F y : AFTERNOON TE with the best that’s in you.
Special Bobbing Parlors A, 4 203 Young Street
Orchestra—4.30 to 5.30 CRAGG BROS CO ) ;
For Ladies at . °4 Cor. Quinpool Road
Limited
A P.UBLICOV SUNDAY CONCERT ene and Oxford Street
. ‘ ER Gea: 16. nh Hardware and Sporting Goods d Bedf
23 Spring Garden Road as HALIFAX, N. S. | =e edford
}

   

 

 

 

Gatonia Suits gatonia.: Overcoats

New models and shades are fé ac j arrivals
eatured in the Fall arrivals. D
; ‘ ouble breasted coats for the young me aterials of

a ee : yc en. Materials
Tweeds and worsteds in neat stripes and patterns on fine quality in plain blue or grey aa eather: 7 Se

ground colors of fawn, grey and tan. Single and double fully cut with a storm collar. Half belt. Sizes35 to 42

BATONIA value, Suit. @aOO —BATONTA value, each... $25.00
Gaimia Shirts Garona Hats gatonia Gloves

New shapes with na ;

snap, welt or bound Phis popular line of gloves of capeskin are in
ie gee great demand. Well sewn seams with trim
of grey, fawn and stitched points. Shades are mid and oak

browns. tan. Sizes 7 to 10.
Sizes 6] to 7}. PATONTA aaine
EATONIA value. ee ONIA value, a
each =m *
$5.00

ena Katon‘s Main. Floor.

: AT N o TELEPHONE

A iITIMEsS LIMITED SACKVILLE 2000

Stylishly cut shirts of selected broadcloth
material. Cut in coat style with soft double
cuffs and collars to match. Plain colors of
blue, tan or white also neat stripes.

CATON 1A es each $2 50
STORE HOURS Ps T
“M

9 a.m. to 5.30 p.m, DAILY

   

 

 

 

 

 
