oh aa

        
  

; 7 So 7 4-70
ee Oe ee eee
a an | & hw, Tt 8

ee es er ee a any |

 
 

—

OUR AIM IS
TO GIVE LIGHT

  

  

me £6%>
VOL. LXfil.

Se

_,
co

"al
as
‘

a xd

t#
a

 
  

—
wo i
ee hs

aoe tS
a ro

,
Awe
ee Te

Ber Law Society out in force

/
¢
+
mM
il

    

i. By a vote of 22 to 16 at the Sodales

_ debate of last Wednesday evening, the
_--—s gmail audience of thirty-eight students
__ deciared themselves against the pro, posed ten dollar fee. it is regrettable

ss that ~more did not turn out for this
«debate and express their opinions on
_-—s this vexed question, but due to the
--—s meeting of the Biology Club and the
skating session at the Forum, the
audience at the debate was unfortu
_.——s mately not representative of the student
. body. The taculty of Law which has
already gone on record as being opposed

i; to the raise in fee was represented more

Pate largely than any other faculty at this
a e debate. : \,

; The resolution was:—‘‘Resolved that

 
  
 
 
 

the Students’ Council is justified in

‘requesting that the student fee be
-__- gaised to ten dollars.”

ss Phe affirmative was supported by

“ dene George MacIntosh, Bb. Sc., and
_ Miss Madeleine Page, B. A., while

ir, Gerald Stewart, B. A., and Miss
_ Mr. Macintosh opened the debate
for the affirmative by showing that

 
          
   
 

aap
er the movement started two years ago
and «that now ODathousie students
/ -——sépay a smaller fee than those attending
| «any other Canadian College. The
average fee of the other colleges is
$14.89 per year. Of course, pointed

_out Mr. Macintosh this does not by
itself mean that our own fee should be
raised, but we need the extra money.

It is the height of absurdity for so many
opponents to make rash general state
_ ments concerning injudicious spending,
because the books of the Students’
ae Council are available for examination
_ by every student, and those who make
these rash statements don’t look at the

books. Besides this, they doubt the
integrity of the Students’ Council.

The seven dollar fee is a mere cover

charge and one decided advantage of

the raise would be the free admission

to all college games. The hockey

team lacks money, the basketball

team bought uniforms this year and

. cannot aftord to entertain other teams
| Sodales, through the kindness of Hon,
R. B. Bennett can give awards each

year, but the $10.00 fee would promote

; more interfaculty debates. Referring
, to the Dalhousie Band, Mr. MacIntosh
showed how Mr. Singer was forced to
borrow white uniforms from the interns
and extra instruments from other
bands. The Gazette could put out
two issues each week instead of one,
and in every department progress
could be achieved.

Miss Miller opened the case for the
negative by making the statement
that the students of Dalhousie should
not be governed by an insane system,
There is no wish on the part of those
opposed to the raise to stint the various
organizations, but the present $7.00
can be spent better than it is. Miss
Miller stated that it was a wonder that
the girls of Dal don’t object because
they are not receiving their fair share of
the money they pay in. The grants
by the Council continued Miss Miller
benefit both sexes. The girls only
get $500.00 for their activities and as
they don’t get their fair share now they
would be in the same position under a
- imerease. Only a small number of
=. Continued on Page Four

"7,

% i

   
 
  
   
  
 

    
     
 
  
  
 
   

Undergraduate Publica

LEE GLUB SHOW

- SODALES SPEAKERS SCORE STUDENT
Need of Increased Fee is

 

Stressed Before Small
ae Sodales Audience

 

to back up advocates of

ee present levy.

 

To Hold Barn
Dance in Gym

Class '31 held a meeting on Tuesday
last in room 3 of the Arts building.
The President Ian Fraser, was in the
chair. Mr. Jost, the Sect-Treasurer
gave a_report on the success of the
Junior-Senior dance disclosing the fact
that there was a balance on the wrong
side of the ledger. There was considerable discussion as to the means
that should be employed to wipe out
this deficit. Some favoured holding
a Tea Dance in the Gym on a Saturday afternoon but the idea was voted
down in favour of a Barn Dance to
be held in the Gymnasium early in
March. A capable Committee of three
the Misses Margeson and Williams
and chairman P. A. Oyler was elected
to look after all arrangements for this

‘dance and with such directors the

success of the dance is assured. The
next important business before the
meeting was the nomination of candidates for the Student’s Council.
The slate finally approved were T. A.
Goude, W. H. Jost, and the Misses
Doris Margeson and Mary Crocker.
Both Mr. Goudge and Miss Margeson
have represented the class on the
Council during the past year, There
being no further business the meeting
adjourned.

Thet there now up-an’ comin’ class,
the Juniors, is a-goin’ to have a Big
Barn dance in the Studley Barn. Its
goin' to be Tuesday night, March 11th,
and they’re goin’ to have lots of room
for all the folks—ye see? they're going
to move back all the animals and fodder
and clear out a big space in the middle
of the barn. Jes’ like ol times ehWe gotta step spry to the tunes thet
the big hired erchestry they got up
from the City is goin’ to play. All of

e better come up to the Hop, because
it’ll be the last time for a long while
thet we'll be able to use the faithful
old barn for a dance.

Dal-Acadia Girls

Divide Series

On Saturday, Feb. 15th, our Basketball girls went to Wolfville, for their
first game with Acadia. At the end
of the first period, the home team ha
a lead of four points. But the .old
spirit came up andin the third period
the Dal girls came out with a margin of
three points to the good. The final
score was 29-26 in favour of Dalhousie.

The second tilt between the Dalhousie and Acadia co-eds took place
on Friday night, Feb, 2lst., at the
gymnasium. The game was very exciting, and in the first period, Dal was
six points up on Acadia. But in the
second period the score crept up in
Acadia’s favour, and Dal lost 28-30.

The line-up was as follows:—

Forwards, Margaret MacDonald and
Isabel Wood; Subs Forward, Muriel
Laurence and Jean Gardner; Centres,
Marian Morton and Pauline Miller;
Subs Centres, Elizabeth Saunderson
and Ted Dorman; Guards, Kay Doyle
and Gwen Currie.

 

 

£ Committee Plans For Model
ee Assembly Meeting

e. ‘ ‘ /

-_. Another meeting of the Model
_ Assembly delegates was held in Room 3
Of the Arts Building on Saturday, with
___* Dr. R. A, MacKay acting as chairman,
_ +The chief topic of business was the
a assignment of parts to the various
delegates. Dr. MacKay touched brief_ly on certain matters that are outstanding in the international sphere of
_ politics at the present time and which
___ 1n all probability will form the re
Of discussion in Second Assembly
of the Model League of Nations.
| t was announced that Dean
of the McGill Law School
2 one of the chief speakers at the
awe

  
   
     
     
    

4

‘a ~~“

 

Pr
Ses a’?
im

   
  
    
    
  
  
 

¢

=

2

: o .
AO oes
ie

 

sessions,

Students are reminded that not all
positions in the League have been
filled. If you are interested and wish
to participate in what undoubtedly will
be one of the most interesting extracurricular events of this year, you
have still an opportunity to act.
But you must act quickly. Get
in touch with Dr. MacKay immediately.

The full personnel of the King’s and
Dalhousie delegation will be printed
in the next issue,

Remember time is short.

Act at once

 

   
  
 

 

 

THE OLDEST
: COLLEGE PAPER
: IN AMERICA
tion
sachet SES, ee
HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA, FEBRUARY 25rx, 1930. No. 20

   

 

iS WELL RECEIVED

 

GOVERNMENT

 
  
  
  
    
     
   
 
  
  

An All Original Production
Pleases Large Audience

New actors make big hit—Moran and Mack also
a pleasing feature of evenings entertainment

By Ralph S. Morton.

The Glee Club Show Friday night was a wow!
with the all-talking, all-dancing, all music, all color, ALL ORIGINAL policy of this year’s management—practically the whole performance was brain-waved at Dalhousie. And such a brain-wave.
Moran and Mack (Graham and Marg. Freshmen), Madeline
Page’s play, Johnny Budd at the piano with- some original breaks,
a newly discovered tap dancer who talks with his feet—and winding up the Big Time Vaudeville—a couple of male crooners that
would make Rudee Valee wish he were back in Yale. A big treat
for one and all—enjoyed by the whole family—and the whole
family was there.

  

Once again the Student Council elections, or as termed by the

 

9)

facetious, the ‘‘Popularity Contests,’’ are approaching. It is
reasonable to suppose that the same lack of intelligent interest
that has characterized this most important event in the student
life of Dalhousie in the past will again occur. It is rather a reflection on the members of the student body of the University that
the nominations for the most important positions in the selfgoverning activities of the College attract no more than a passing
interest. The familiar spectacle is again presented of classes with a
total membership of one hundred or more nominating candidates
for Council positions at meetings attended by only fifteen or twenty
of the faithful. How can the best interests of the several groups
who have the privilege of representation on the Council best be
served by placing before the electorate the choice, not of the entire
group, but only of a small portion? © .

Again the co-eds will flock to the polls to register their votes for
the most popular, best-looking of the male candidates offering for
election. Similarly, the masculine vote will again be based on the
quantities of “‘it’’ possessed by the feminine element on the ballot.
Voting for members of the opposite sexes is based not on merit but
on popularity. The average male is apparently incapable of judging the attainments of a co-ed which would peculiarly fit her for a
position cn the Council With Ramon Navarro playing in a
prominent theatre this week in the city, we may confidently expect
to see that candidate for a Couneil position most closely resembling
the famous movie actor swept into office on a solid feminine vote.

Continued on page Four.
a |

 

Oh there’s so much for us to say in
praise of the show that our little portable just won’t click fast enough.
First of all we wish to tell Madeline
Page that we consider her play the
cleverest piece of work done at Dalhousie in many moons. Of course
well just whisper this—because we
really should charge for our opinion.
‘“The Chemistry Student” was exceedingly well done, it deserved a great big
-| hand—and it got it. We all hope Nick
was present. Margaret Ells as the
nurse, in her first Glee Club show was
good, she didn’t lose many of her

“The Chemistry Student’’--
In keeping

St. Mary’s Defeat Tigers
in Closely Fought Contest

In one of the most exciting and interesting games played this year, Dal’s
agressive sextette were forced to bow
to the fast skating St. Mary’s hockey
team by a 1-0 score. The game was
played before a fairly large crowd
and although the ice was heavy, fast
hockey was the order of the night.
Having played a draw game about
two weeks ago, both teams were out to
declare their supremacy and from the
opening whistle it was evident that an
exciting game would follow.

The first period opened with both
teams making determined rushes, but
Purtill and Parrott, the rival goalies
were ubeatable handling with each
everything that came their way. Both
defences were handing out stiff bosy
checks and succeeded in breaking up
numerous attacks. Due to the heavy
ice all shots outside defense were weak,
and it soon became apparent that only
close in shots would be of any use.
Both teams missed numerous chances
to score when they either overskated
the puck or were robbed of the illusive
little black disc by the ever alert
net minders, The period ended with
no scoring.

The second period was a repetition of

the first. Dal missed several sure
scores while St. Mary’s also deserved
to make the red light flicker. ‘“Snowy”’
ice slowed up the play considerably, but
both teams were fighting hard when
the whistle ended the period with the
score still reading 0-0.

It was a case of just which teamwas
he luckier, and this was soon discovered when F. Foley scored for St. Marys
early in the third period. Dal pressed
hard but were unable to over come
the one goal lead, and the teams skated
off the ice with the score reading 1-0
in favour of the Saints, It was a good
game and to lose to such a team as the
one from Windsor Street is as near a
“pleasure’’ as any loss can be.

And now comes the news that St.
Mary’s overcame the strong St. F. X.
team in Antigonish and thus clinched
the Intercollegiate Title. It will be
remembered that St. F. X. eliminated
Acadia in a two game series, Congratulations St. Mary’s!

Dal lined up:—

Goal—Purtill.

Defence—Stanfield, Brennan, J. Taylor.

Fwds.—Eaton, Oyler, Thompson,
Taylor, Brown, W. MacDonald.

 

All Star Dance Programme

 

The girl’s All-star dancing programme which has been selected
during the past week from twenty-five all star programmes submitted to the Gazette by twenty-five Dalhousie Don Juans.

Miss Elizabeth Murray popular co-ed in Arts from Sussex, N. B. |
heads the list and is closely followed by the Misses Williams, |

Margeson and Rosier.

If you want to reserve a dance with any of these all stars for
the Millionaires’ Ball, boys, you better get hot.
9g

“Lob” Murray.
Helen Williams.
Doris Margeson.
“Dot” Rosier.
Carol Sandford.
“Tig” Beatteay.
Tillie Grant.
Marg. Kent.

BO Sr IC Hem FBO tt

. Eileen MacAulay.
10. Isobel Wood.
11. Margaret Cowperthwaite.
12. Ruth MacAulay.
13. Helen Nelson.
14. Lib Saunderson.
15. Jean Morton.
16. Peg Sproull.

Ist Extra Teddy Dorman.
2nd Extra Marg. Mackie.
3rd Extra Phyllis Skeen.

4th Extra Ruth Chisholm.
5th Extra Gwynne Curry.

NOTICE !

Final Meeting of the Model League, Arts Building,

12 a. m. Thursday.

EVERYBODY OUT.

 

  

   

MISS MADELINE PAGE
who produced the Chemistry
Student and also debated
last week

 

Three Hundred
Enjoy Dance

The annual Junior-Senior dance
was held in the Studley gym on Monday, February 17th, at which the
members of the senior class, ’80, were
the guests of class ’31. There were
about three hundred people present.
Joe Mills’ 7-piece orchestra provided
the music, and the chaperones were
Miss E. M. Lowe, Dr. G. E. Wilson,
and Prof. and Mrs. H. R. Maxwell.
Very little of the gym was visible behind the solid walls and roof of green
and white. There was a-* newness
about the decorations that caught the
eye and many were the complimentary
remarks heard about them—congratulations are due the capable committee
in charge.

 

Debaters ready to
meet U.N. B.

The time is fast approaching for
Dalhousie’s second Men’s debate
this winter, and all indications
point towards another well-earned
victory when Cooper, Pattillo and
MacDonald meet the trio from the
University of New Brunswick at
Fredericton within the next month.

The Secretary has suggested the

 

laughs and did a good piece of characterization—we hope to see more of her
work. Jack Davies who will remember
introduced ‘‘Dalhousie Dreamgirl” in
the Half Pint Revue had almost as good
a bedside approach as a fifth year
Med thinks he has, and that’s saying a
good deal.

Rully Ritchie was a hit—he put the
sketch over. As a crazed Chemistry
Student, Rolly kepts things rolling.
his was the last act on the bill but
worth waiting for. Miss Page get
busy and with some more—the children
are crying for it,

Next in merit in our opinion was
Moron and Mack—Glee Club’s most
popular team. Graham and Marg
always get a big reception, last night
they were irresistable. With new songs
cracks and dances they had the audience
howling.

The first number on the varied program was a duet, Eric Found and
Warren Langille, who crooned over
some close harmony. They deserved
their encore,

_John Budd, who came in late for
his first number on the program, showed
us how a piano shou!d be treated in

order to get the best results. The
experiment was successful,
“Buck” Harris brought us some
thing new to Glee Club. The audience
were soon convinced that this lad had
something worth looking at. ‘Buck’s’’
hoofing was clever and his come
patter good. (sood hoofing is something Glee Club has been longing tor—
Mr. Harris stepped in and we thank
him.

The worst thing about the show as
we see it is—why is all this talent
going to waste? Why isn’t is consolidated into a big revue and presented
down town where we can pull in the
shekels from the Haligonians. We
need the money for scenery and effects,
Get busy Fat—shame on you!
but no reply has been received yet
from the opposition.

The resolution is ‘‘That in the
interests of society the truths of
history should sometimes be suppressed.’’ Dalhousie is supporting
the negative. The team is hard at
work and intend to duplicate the
feat of MacDonald and Greene here

date for Friday night, March 14th, ! two weeks ago.

 

Co-eds Show Rare Form in Recent

Clash

With Dartmouth

 

The game on Tuesday last at the
Arena was one game in a thousand!
The people who watched it will tell you
it was the most exciting and entertaining game seen this winter. But the
sad part of it was that our girls lost,
and the Dartmouth team won, 8-0.
It seemed too bad, and all very unnecessary, but nevertheless it is all too
true.

Our team was in great trim, and they
fought well and hard in the whole three
periods. Frankie was in the nets,
and didn’t she keep her eyes on that
puck! Muriel Laurence and Lils Saun
derson were particularly good, and they
succeeded in making their way up the
ice with the puck several times. But
did ever an audience enjoy a game so
much? No! The laughs and the
cheers were great, and every time Dal
did a big thing, the watchers showed
their appreciation by giving 1, 2, 8,
Upidee, But the best part of the
game was when a Dartmouth girl was
completely laid out, and the prostrate
damsel had to be carried off the ice,
and didn’t come to for half an hour.
We're with you girls! We wish you
better luck next time,

*

 
       
   

 

_ subject.

 

|

Decision Fair

 

Ouzette

| of the @llege by the Sea

 
  

 
 

    

Founded 1869. “The Oldest College Paper in America.”

      
 

Editor. Managing Editor. Writes President
GEO. K. MACINTOSH, B, SC, RALPH S. MORTON, B. A. oo eos.
Phone Sac. 83651. Phone Sac. 304. Feb. 8th., 1930.

   
    
    

News Editors. Editor, Dalhousie Gazette.
ARTHUR PATILLO
KEN. SMITH. Dear Sir:

 
 

The letter of Mr. Gushue in your
last week’s issue drew my attention
to a previous article which had not
before come to my attention.

I have just finished reading the
article to which Mr. Gushue refers,
About its general thesis I shall make no
comment here. But in the whole of
Dalnousie’s debating history there
could not have been picked out a
single case where the writer’s contention was farther from the truth. than
in the instance selected, last year’s debate at Newfoundland. In this case
the choosing of the judges was not as in
an intercollegiate debate, a matter to
be argued about and agreed upon.
It was entirely in the hands of our

DORIS MARGESON
J. ROSENBLUM
Society and Girls’ Sport
HELEN G. WILLIAMS.

 
   
 

Sport Editor.
P. A, OYLER.

    
 

Associate Editors.

MADELEINE PAGE, B. A.
J. LOUIS DUBINSKY

GORDON COOPER
Asst. Business Manager.
J. R. DONAHUE.
Phone Sac. 4086]

 
       
 

Business Manager.

5. W. ARCHIBALD,
Phone L. 2291.

  

Subscription Rate $1.50 per year.
Gazette Phone Sack. 4866.

 

 

 

: . hosts, and they consequently made
Printed by WM. MAcNAB & Son, 7-11 Bedford Row, Halifax, N.S. unusual efforts to secure men of the
. utmost distinction and ability. About

the capacity of the judges selected |
need say nothing whatever. Mr. Gushue’s letter is sufficient answer. The
idea that these men would be swayed
by any popular opinion on the subject
that happened to be discussed is unworthy of consideration.

But I may add some things which
Mr. Gushue’s reticence and modesty
withheld.

When the decisions were handed in
after that debate one of the judges,
perhaps understanding the possibiity
of such an idea as the writer in the
Gazette advances, took care to write
down on his slip of paper that the
decision was rendered soley on the
arguments as presented by the speakers.
At the request of the judge—a privy
Councillor and a judge of the Supreme
Court—this was announced with the
decision, Our team lost not because
we sided with or against Eternal Truth
or even the greater Popular Opinion
but because its arguments as presented
by the speakers did not warrant the
decision.

lt seems too that if the calibre of our
judges was wrongly estimated by this
writer so also was the calibre of our
opposing team. | am perfectly willing
to state, and perfectly honest in stating,
that it would not have been without
very grave doubts that I sould have
gone the next night to take the opposite
side of the same question with the
same opponents and the same judges.
For in the leader of our Opponents w
had one of the cleverest students
Dalhousie Law School has turned out
in many a day and at present one of
the astutest lawyers in Newfoundland.
And both the other debaters were
men of wide knowledge, mature wisdom, and much debating experience.

No! Dalhousie did not lose because
the judges were tainted with any
prejudice against the idea that war was
of value to human progress. The
team who were defeated are quite
willing to admit that the reason lay
in the compact statement, logical
power, and adroit presentation of our
opponent's case.

lt is almost a year now since we had
the privilege of that bonnie encounter
in the Ancient Colony. And all the
team can heartily assure our generous
opponents and hosts of that delightful
occasion that we have no regrets whatever over the decision nor any misgivings as to its justice. We are extremely sorry that unreliable hearsay
should have ever raised the suggestion.

OUR SCALE OF VALUES.

; ks

With the increasing complexity of modern University life it
becomes more and more difficult for the student to choose, duiing
his four or more years in College, those activities which should
engage his attention and command his talents. It is obvious that
to throw oneself willy-nilly into the whirlpool of studies, sports,
social events and ten dcllar fee controversies would be disastrous
‘to the search for the elusive degree in which we are all engaged.
Which of these activities which clamor for our attention are more o
less essential, and which are unnecessary, though perhaps agreeable,
adjuncts to our University course? A Freshman on entering
the College is bewildered by the calls made upon his time. <A goodly number of the first year men answer too many of these calls,
with the result that when the Christmas examination lists are published their names are conspicuous only by their absence. They
have neglected the first essential activity, which is that of study.
They wonder just how it is that those of upper classes who got to
every dance and take part in numerous other University affairs,
contrive to have their names appear in the pass lists. They do not
immediately discover that the successful juniors and seniors have
learned how to properly apportion ther time so as to devote a portion to each phase of University affairs they have decided to engage
in, without neglecting to provide a time for sufficient study.

-It is obvious, I think, that in arriving at a proper scale of
values for ones own particular case, it is necessary to put studies
first. After all, we have entered College with the intention of
ultimate graduation. When we neglect our books for the Glee Club
stage, Lord Nelson ballroom, or other form of activity (including
the poker game) so that we fail to pass our yearly examinations
we are defeating the main purpose for which we entered Dalhousie.
If we find that we can successfully engage in a number of outside
attractions and still make a creditable showing in our scholastic
work, then we are quite justified in developing our abilities in other
directions as far as possible.

Our scale of values at the University will also be affected by the

work which we intend to engage in after we have left Dalhousi.
For the business man intending to engage in an occupation whic
requires constant social contacts the social_life at the University
offers him constant opportunity to acquire an ease and assurance
which will assist him materially in after life. For the student who
intends to become a professor the acquisition of a background of
learning and culture is of the utmost importance to him in his College days. Similarly, the embryo scientist can afford to sacrifice
practically all else to the attaining of knowledge in his particular
The journalist of the future should be a frequent contributor to the columns of the Gazette. The future Parliamentarian will undoubtedly find the experience gained in speaking at Sodales of value to him when he becomes an L. L. B. Finally, in
every student's scale of values there should be a place for participation in some branch of sport, if it only be in the lowliest of competition. This participation in sport gives us something we all
need in abundant measure, namely, HEALTH. No student
should be so overburdened with studies that he cannot find time for
athletics. We should strive for an all round development of our
minds and our bodies in the way that will most benefit us after we
have graduated from Dalhousie. In order to achieve this graduation we must place our studies at the head of our list of our essential
activities. With the non-essential we should not be much concern
ee

Yours very truly,

ERNEST M. HOWSE,
Pine Hill Residence,
Halifax, N.S.

Who May Judge?

Editor, the Dalhousie Gazette.

 

Dear Sir:-—

 

I note with interest a news item in
the last issue of the Gazette, a paragraph of which covered the Law Society
meeting when they assembled to voice
their disapproval of the proposed $10
fee, which item states that “Guss,
Grant, and Morton appeared on behalf
of the increase_a...... etc,”

Although several ‘‘well informed”’
professional students have seen fit to
term as ‘“‘tripe”’ several recent letters,
including one over my name, I do not
intend to take issue over that with any
who have spent so many more years
on this earth or at this University than
I, but I should like to hear each opponent of this proposal ask himself
this little question: ‘Who is this Guss,
this Grant, this Morton.”

Ben Guss has been instrumental for

‘several years in handling many
hundreds of dollars of the students’
money. Last year he was Gazette
Yours sincerely, Editor. He has been on Glee Club
ee oe, | one oe eae This year

: . a e is a member of the Council, and as

T. A. GOUDGE, member of the Finance Committee

Secty-Treas. was in part responsible for apportioning

‘ Council of the Students. grants to the various societies, totalling
oi Neestea 3 several thousands of dollars.

Don Grant is also on the Council
—the Council which has been compelled time and time again to turn down
requests for financial assistance to
various organizations.

Kelly Morton is in his fifth year at
Dal. He has been a leading light in
Glee Club for practically the whole
time. He has been Year Book editor
and Business Manager of the Gazette.

ELECTION ANNOUNCEMENT.

To The Editor of the Gazette.
Dear Sir:

The Council of the Students desires to make known through
the columns of The Gazette, the fact that the election of members
for next year will take place on Thursday, March 6th, 1930. On
the same day, a plebisicte will be held on the issue of the proposed
Ten Dollar Fee.

' With regard to the Students’ Council Elections, the presidents
of the various classes and societies are requested to note especially
that all names of candidates muct be in the hands of the Secretary,
on or before Thursday, Feb. 27th, 1930.

’ Information about the election can be obtained from members
of the Council, or from the Secretary.

_ Thanking you for the space for this brief notice, I remain,

a

is the last result of human There must be reformers, of course,
m, ee. upon human experi- but it is well for a time to be sus) benefit o. the public.—||picious of them.—Robert Lynd.

a .'

‘2 - *

 

_ : ; Women are so far ahead of men in

iene oe tc. sare the Bsie of seasole cress that they

to spend my life in thinking||are rapidly approaching the ideal._—
-Arthur Schopenhauer. || Dr. W, W. Draper. .

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

ST 4

THE MOUTHPIECE |

NOTE—AII letters for publication must be signed by writers.
no responsibility for the opinions expressed in this department.

 

 

We take

 

He is now managing Editor. He has
been on the Council.

Who should better know than three
of this type, whether or not the various
organizations are in need of financial
assistance beyond their present scanty
allowances? In these three we find
expert experience in connection with
the Council, Glee Club, Sodales, Gazette, Finance Committee, and Year
Book.

Look at the four opponents named in
theitem. Gerry Stewart, Hinc Russell,
O'Handley, Dwyer. Two have yet
to see the end of their second year at
Dal, another of his first, the other, of his
first under modern student government. I know of absolutely no connection which any one of them has had
with any of these organizations named,
except for the appearance of one before
Sodales.

All of which reminds us of the little
story on page 2 last week, entitled
“Oh for a Sense of Humour,” about
those who attend hockey games, write
reams for the Gazette, go to Glee Club,
and everything on earth but.

True, one of them had been Council
Pres. at another University, but even
there the fee is over $15 ($8.00 for
athletics alone!)

Who may better judge for Dalhousie,
Mr. Editor?

R. GORDON HARRIS.
Feb, 17th, 1930.

Advocates
Improved System

10 Armouries Place,
Halifax, Nova Scotia.
February 20, 1930.

 

The Editor,
The Dalhousie Gazette,
Halifax, Nova Scotia.

Dear Mr. Editor:

At the last debate at Sodales, on the
subject whether the Students’ Council
was justified in asking for an increased
fee of $10.00, the leader for the negative severely attacked the present
system of student finance and urged
that a more businesslike system be
instituted. He pointed out that the

present system was not “water-tight” |

and contended that so Jong as it remained unchanged the Council was not

intention on his part of doing so) was a
disclosure by a speaker from the floor
on behalf of the affirmative. This
sptaker, an important member of the
Gazette staff, declared that the printers
were right then pressing for payment
(an annual occurrence, [
but that the poor staff could do nothing,
as it would have no more money until
it collected for advertisements at the
end of the year. And, to remedy this,
he pleaded for the $10.00 fee.

That this is a regrettable and distressing situation goes without saying,
and that the poor staff is deserving of
sympathy is admitted. But I fail to
see why this should be so; and the

remedy, I contend, is not to be sought |

in an increased fee. On the contrary,
the remedy is to be sought in an altered
in an improved system of student finance.
In fact, the wonder grows that there
should today exist at Dalhousie a system so constituted as to permit a stat

of things so archaic and unbusiness- |

like as that just portrayed.

And this, it submitted, how
things might be remedied. Every year
the Students’ Council make an appor
is is

tionment of the funds derived from the |

regular student fee. Here are two steps
open to the Council, steps, apparently,
neither of which it follows. One is,
on making an appropriation to the
Gazette from the funds aforesaid, to
treat that on the books of the Council
as a credit of so much, and to allow the
Gazette to use as much of it as it likes
up to that amount. Another, and
more statesmanlike, way is on the basis
of date on file in the Gazette office, to
make an estimate of. Gazette revenue
(subscriptions, advertisements, etc.)
and expenditure, to budget accordingly,
and to treat the appropriation, jrrespective of money uncollected by the
Gazelle, as a credit on the books of the
Students’ Council. Or, again, the
Gazette ought to be able at any time,
so long as it is within its budget, to
obtain a loan from the Council. And,
needless to say, what applies to the
Gazette applies also with equal force
to other organizations similarly placed.

Before I conclude I should make it
clear that my conception of the financial
system at Dalhousie, which I have
sought to show may be improved, is a
logical inference based on the disclosure made by the member of the
Gazette staff previously mentioned
Moreover, I am assuming that there is,
supposed to exist at Dalhousie what
Mr. Percy Davies (late of the N.F.C.U.
S., I believe) once described commendably to me as a system of “unified
control of student finance.”

Yours truly,

JOHN J. COPLAND.

Council Member

On New Fee

The general opinion of the students,
especially those of the professional
faculties, is that the Council is tryin g
to stampede the student body to support the proposed new fee. This is
not the attitude taken by the Council;
for the Council members discussed this
problem with their own faculties and

 

 
  

 

Maimed Ui t : |At the present time one cdition per
justified in asking for an increased fee. |
Bearing this out (but without an|

 

February 25th, 19380

ee

—a——_a ¢

Pine Hill °

The Club,
popular among the third year Meds
hasy gone, into liquidation. Rumour
has it that when the time came to
meet the last instalment, there wasn’t
enough down.

The sole
Theolog, explains that he has been so
rushed in his capacity of chairman of
the At Home Entertainment Committec
that he hasn’t yet found time to shave
his off.

Meanwhile those in charge of

  

acted on the sentiment expressed by
their constituencies.

On February 4th, the Gazette published a list of changes which the
$10.00 fee would make possible. In
this statement the policy of the Council
is not expressed. The Gazette staff is
entirely responsible for this article.
The Gazette is to be complimented on
their policy, which is one in favour of
the $10.00 fee; but as the Council
would not have access to such an amount of money which the Carnegie Foundation has recently given the university, only a small part of the Gazette's
program could possibly be fulfilled.

The extra (approximately) $2700.00,
which the increased fee would make
possible, is greatly needed for the upkeep and improvement of Dalhousie's
present organizations. In order that
athletics and present activities shall
not suffer the increased fee is absolutely
necessary. Even with the extra money
derived from an increase, the Council
should not grant money to present
unaided organizations. The additional
money is required for the improvement
of existing organizations. To those
who differ with the above fact; please
consider that if the money is expended
in new channels, then no worth while
improvements in our present organizations will be seen.

Any thoughtful student knows that
the increased fee could not possibly
finance all the desired improvements
suggested by the Gazette. Now let
us consider the matter from a reasonable point of view. Firstly, a paid
coach for our college would be an utter
absurdity; because any man capable
for such a position, would demand a
salary equal to that paid to any of our
worthy professors. ‘the Council would
be able to sponsor an employment
bureau, a book bureau, and perhaps a

©

Mustache particularly

remaining member, a

the
At Home are doing their darnedest.
Uncouth noises, reminiscent of the
barnyard emanate nightly from the
annex and thru the Old Building floats
the weird wail of a saxaphone, while
Bill and Clayton in the privacy ot the
former’s room twiddle mean toes.

During their sojourn in Halifax, the
U. S. debaters stayed at Pine Hill.
In addition to their verbal prowess the
American boys showed themselves good
heads.

We've just heard the one about the
Pine Hill freshman who, on hearing the
words of the Cape Breton yell for tne
first time thought they were the
Mnemonic Lines.

The spirit of the Argonaut: has
recently descended upon the Residence.
Last month it was George W., who
minus the convention of a diving suit
undertook a voyage of submarine exploration of Eastern Passage. The
life of the finny tribe appealed to George
than he had expected, and he
permitted himself to be fished out and
saved to his Alma Mater. This week
Hank McQ. caught the sacred flame,

4
L2ss

lunch counter. The latter would be}He had engaged a freight train for
quite a financial undertaking. A book ; 5
bureau alone would save each individual an amount far greater than that
asked for in the $10.uU fee.

No college activity deserves more] part of the train, lasted as far out as
credit than the Glee Club. Let the Simpsons where the velocity of the

;

person who disagrres with this state- decreaset
ment .stop to think, ack, and
trace the expansion and growth of the
Glee Club in the last five ye Bctter shows are being asked for, but they
can only be made possible by more

engine i, and Hank’s aspirations fell in proportion. He returned
to the city, a°tired but wiser lad. It
is now reported that Hank and George
are contemplating a trip to the Moon,

look |

ars.

 

adequate equipment. The talent is ‘i
already present. Dal Night
Debates at Dalhousie, especially

those with other colleges are too few
and far between. Why? The lack of
funds is the answer. With an increased fee the bi-weekly publication of the

The Council gives rumours of another
Dal might at the Forum in the near

future. Boys have always enjoyed

Gazette would be made financially | hockey games, but just wart till they
possible. But do the students want §5°° this game, between the Dalhousie

girls and the Chrystal Sisters of P. E. I.
Che date for this game will be announced in next week's Gazette.

is

the Gazette twice a week? Where
the much required news to come from?

week is adequate. The money is Ps ea |
| needed far worse in other activities.

All will agree that there should be] - Some people seem to think thev
more skating sessions, also free ad-| have expressed themselves when really
mission to all home games. If the|they have upset the inkpot.—Rev
students are admitted to all home| &iojan T. Pomeroy,

games free, where is the money derived

 

SUPPpOSse) |

from gate receipts to come from? You
say, let the Council finance it. Yes
land no. Yes if you, desire other activities to suffer financially, No if you

need plenty practice, regardless of their
material. Adequate funds cannot be
obtained to give the hockey team suf
want to see your college athletics] ficient practices. @ Some say why waste
improve. Let us hope that the D.A.A.| money on a team, when there is not
C. will not be so rasn as to cut down , material

enough good available. If
all the colleges depended upon avail
|on their income,
what we get free.

We never appreciate
able material for their teams, then
such teams would not amount to much.
The logical method to develop players
while they are in college is through the
medium of interfaculty sport. It would
be advisable for next year’s Council
to support all interfaculty sport, as

Lastly come the three major sports,
| football, basketball and hockey. Winning teams cannot be expected’ unless
they are given support. Football is
supported both financially and otherwise and the result is seen in a winning
how

transportation to Studley, when visions
of a bigger and brighter world entered
mis head. This exhibition, maintained
no doubt by a speed of 40 per on the

 

 

 
  

 

 

team. But can our basketball|far as their financial condition perteam progress*when they are not sup-| mitted.
ported. Hockey is the most poorly JOSEPH M. GARDEN,
supported sport in college. All teams Engineering.
is just
around
the corner

Look at your old TOPCOAT
and then look at OURS

Shanes Mens Wear

30 SPRING GARDEN ROAD,

     
   

HALIFAX, N. S.

 

 

        
 

Leaders in

* Sport

—
Send to Phinney’s for that Football—
Basketball—Baseball Supplies—Fishing
Tackle, and be sure of getting Quality
goods, befitting the largest
House in the East. .°. .:

     

      
             
             

Sporting

 
 

SPECIAL PRICES TO CLUBS

        
    
  
 

"he

Pasa Hy)

(iA Vif4
\ Sa

lk LTA ET OO

   

is
a

  
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  

   
   
 

oo

   
   
  

BARRINGTON STREET - HALIFAX, N. S.

  
      
     

es

characters i in this story are

nize any ioe Ree, certat:
: y rom the hors ima mhain.
ec

_ Suddenly the president R. Wald

fel oa oa the story.)

4 “Came. the dawn” as the old silent
_ Movie sub-titles used to say. Hardly
a wink had most Coronians siept that
Es night. Wallie Sedgmore dead” reechoed in a hundred boarding houses,
through dormitories of Matchead Ladies
_ Residence, through St. George's Hall,
through Fasteaity Houses—and thru
the city. And then the re-actionary
unter cry rose to a mighty cry of
anger as newsboys in the early morning
‘a . hollered in a deafening roar, taking
up the noisy theme o their papers’
1 screaming headlines; Corona Youth
eo —Who killed young Wallie
Sedgmore?”’
atson Dixon, the eee ee
spector was early : on the job—that
a noe for the Dartmore police. The
Rist night before he had Lasts ee a
preliminary inspection ow he was
a to Sail Winsome The Phi Phi
Se resembled police head-quarpath sergeants and inspectors
Ubting around, and reporters appearing
interested in their eternal quest for

rhe s hastily finished what little
es DE thew felt like eating, and
— then obeyong orders assembled in the
t room. The front door bell rang.
Ait as a rule nobody answered

Sele

     
   
  
 
 

Sea yi

  
    
       
   
     
      
    
   

 

G. A. McDonald

Smokers Requisites of every
) description

oe complete stock of Domestic
and Imported

CIGARS, CIGARETTES
and TOBACCOS

—_—

| YELLOW CAB

| LIMITED
see SACK. 4444

=e r

 

 

 

 

ba Halifax Only Metered
i: Service

$ Same Rates 24 Hours.

5 Two travel for same as one.
f More than two, 20 cents extra.
sae =

,
a
2
| BIRKS
F Fraternity Pins and Class
*% - Jewelry are smarter when
| made by experienced work(tes ‘men.
a; | We have specialized in this
| | field for years.
| ea
i Henry Birks | & Sons
| foie Lim
wees DIAMOND MERCHANTS

: Halifax.

 

 
   
   
  

BUTTONS ON
| RENTS MENDED
HOLES DARNED

    
  

That’s the service you get
free when you send Y YOUR

Laundry to Ungar’s.

  
  
 
 

|| VALETERIA
A new pressing Service:

Po Your a or Overcoat
Sha , for
| 50 ath

  
 
 

Har. 107
DYEING

   
 

 

oop : ?
ea (3 - ee ists - = a. i
es re, 1%

‘ely ficticious. IPf youthink you recogy none are intended.

The characters are

 

FOR NEW READERS.

hn Clark, a Hashmi at Corona University is saeeb Hees called upon to
of one of the Players’ Club a

erformers. He wins tremendous];
aham appears and announces that

, Wallie Sedgemore, neon oe John had taken had been murdered.

the door at Phi Phi Phi, at this’time all
the boys would have gladly rushed out,
just for something to do for the moment,

A policeman ushered in Dr, Smith,
the headquarters physiclan—and follow
ing closely on his heels was Dean
MacKean.

Good morning, Doctor,” greeted
Inspector Dixon, Now I think we
can begin.’”” He nodded to Dean
MacKean and shrugged his shoulders
as if to say— This 1s a police affair
not a Committee on Studies inspection”’
and continued: In your examination
of the body, Doctor, what. would you
say caused the death of the deceased?”

That is quite simple—Sedgmore
was shot—the powder marks indicate
at close range and strangely enough
it wasn’t a revolver that did it—I
would say that the work was done with
some sort of antique firearm—a pistol.”’

Excellent Doctor, I thought as much
What time do you set as the hour of
death?”

That is more difficult,
would say between four
o'clock.”

Splendid. Now how many of you
birds were here in the house at that
time?”

““Humph, ” broke in Dean MacKean.
‘You won't get very far there. Strangely in fact most out of the ordinary—
all the Phi Phi boys were in their
respective classes at that time.”

“How the devil do you know?”
gulped the Inspector.

’ ‘Very elementary, my dear Inspector
I checked up on their attendance—all
were at lectures except Sedgmore.”

“The house was empty then. Now
we’ ve got that settled.”

“No, sir, it wasn’t, ‘interjected
Harry. Upham the valet, cook, house
mother, caretaker or what have you

vay

and five

of the boys. “I was present at the
time........ at the time of the........ er fatal
shooting.”

“Yea, and I suppose you were down
in the basement sweeping under the
coal bin, and didn’t know anything
about the shooting.” =

“Yes sir,’”” Upham answered,

mean, no Sir—that is sir, 1 was tidying

up a bit downstairs.”
“What are you here,
relief, I suppose
“No, Sir—I'm”
at him as if ready to prompt him,
the Steward.”
relief.

gers.

 

 

Leather Goods
Last!

Students know—Kelly’s Leather goods lasts for years.
Treat yourself to a new leather
Portfolio or loose leaf book
See our assortment of Novelty
Goods—First floor.

Kelly’s, Limited

GRANVILLE STREET.

 

 

 

  
   
    
    
  

  

The Students’
PRINTERS

Dalhousians always come to
us when they want a good job
done quickly—and Dalhousians
KNOW!

THE ROSS PRINT

95 Argyle Street
Halifax N. S.

   
   
  

   
  

    

  
  
  
 
 
 

Food Values

Thinking in terms of health
we cannot value our food
too highly.

That is why ‘‘ The Green
Lantern ”’ insists on having only the best.

‘*EAT PURE FOOD ”’
The Green Lantern.

  

  
   

~ Bee

< “ee “Pd Di Die for Old Corona’’
~ | By George J. Greene.

+ CHAPTER THREE.—“Fl, FI ON THE PHI PHI PHIS.”

    
  
  
  
    
  

   
    

   
   
    
   
   
   
  
   
   
  
    
  
    
      
  
  
  
   
    
 
    
  
  

the comic

looking askingly at
the boys who looked desperately os
‘I'm
The boys sighed with
They were very strict about
using his proper title in front of stran
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
  

i : i

m wat ei 1

 

ee eo « ~ ~—

 

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE.

 

Breet

A Brand New Story of Life in An Imaginary College

By a New ‘‘ Gazette ’’ Story Writer.

READ THE THIRD STORY IN TODAYS ISSUE

 

“What did you think of the deceased
Upham?”

MT tell the truth, sir—I didn’t
think much of him. He was always
coming in late for his meals—and
always play-actin’ around the house.
But I'm mighty sorry he’s—he’s gone.

“I'm not quite so sure of that. You
didn’t come across an old pistol when
you were ‘tidying up a bit down stairs’
did you?”

‘No-oo sir.”

“Is everybody in the house present
in this room?”’ thundered the Inspector.

The boys nodded assent.

“Then who the dicken’s is that
walking around upstairs?” yelled the
police official as he made for the stiarway, the boys following.

Wallie Sedgmore’s room was directly
above. On the door was still written
the note that the unfortunate lad had
left for his brothers to see. It was
typewritten:

“Have a bad cold, Tell Albie Graham. I can’t possibly perform tonight.
Don’t wake me tall morning under any
circumstances,’

The sergeant had left specific instructions that no one was to enter the
room—now, the inspector found the
door ajar. He rushed in. A young
man was bending over the dead body
carefully examining the wound,

“Hey, get away from there. Why
are you?”’

The man was startled, jumped up—

“A fiend did this job sir—it’s positively the cleverest job I’ve ever heard of,
no finger prints left, no clues, not motive
it’s baffling.”

“Who are you?” repeated the inspector, angry now.

‘My name’s MacGregor, Alexander
MacGregor, assistant lecturer in Eng
lish and History at Corona. I am a
member of this fraternity. I live here
to keep the boys straight. Did you

notice those curtains downstairs sir—
I gave those to the fraternity. By the
way have you ever read McAvity on
Criminology, Avery interesting book,
most intriguing,”

“You can’t learn criminology out ot
books’’ came back the inspector.
“And what business have you in this
room. I thought I Jeft word—”

“But I’m so deeply interested in this
crime sir—You see for years I’ve made
a study of crimes—especially murders
and this one is the most mysterious I’ve
ever come across in fiction or history
It’s really hideous. Sedgmore so young
without an enemy—a college student
shot down, in cold blood. It almost
appears to be the perfect crime.”

“You appear to know too much
about the perfect crime—perhaps you
know something of this murder—where
were you yesterday at four o'clock,

“I don’t remember, oh yes I do. I
think I TOOK in a movie. Yes
that’s right, 1 remember now.’

“You better get someone to prove
that alibi.”’

“Why I was the one that found the
unfortunate lad first, last night—

“You did?”

“Yes I told Upham around 10.15
that we better take Sedgmore some
hot lemon. Upham said the door was
locked. Weshouted. No answer then
we got some of the other boys that
were in the house and broke down the
door.”’

“Very interesting, And what were
you doing in last night?”

“I was reading—VonOrdof on Continental Murders.”

The inspector asked the way to
MacGregor’s room, There he found
just what he expected, the most complete criminology library he had seen
since his trip to Chicago in 1897, ever
important book and treatise relating
to historical and modern crimes was

Tuition Fee $75.00 per year.

a

there,

“You make quite a study of this
gentle art, don’t you?”’

“Yes sir, I've made quite a hobby
of it. You see I got my degree from
doing research work on the famous folk
ballad “The Edinburgh Mystery.”

Over the mantle piece were hung
ornamental antiques. The inspector
looked around, admiring the pictures
on the wall. Then suddenly he glanced
up and cried sharply as he ran over to
grab an old firearm from the mantle
piece:

‘Where did you get this?”

“Don’t touch that—it’s a very
valuable antique—l8th century, a
gift from the old curator of the museum.

‘““MacGregor,"’ the call came from
the stairway. It was the unmistakeable voice of Prof. Oswald Moran.
He walked into the room attired in
white spats. “Good morning, Alex.”
Then seeing the inspector, “Oh a representative militaire. I just dropped
in to get that old antique you borrowed
from the museum.”’

MacGregor blushed. Then
mered.

“This is Inspector Dixon, Prof. Moran,”

“Glad to know you, Moron.”

‘Not Moron,” Ozy protested, ‘‘Moran, have you ever read any of my
books? Surely you have read ‘‘Life
on the Prairies,’ by Oswald Moran.

‘“‘Ah, yes now | remember the name.”

“Tell me,’ the littlke man continued,
“Did you find you had to wrap wet
towels around your head and drink
strong green tea in order to keep
awake while reading the book.”

‘Well to tell the truth Professor—
I never read the book myself, I seen
it one day in a bookstore window when
I used to do duty down Blanford Street
way. Is this your pistol sir?”’

“Yes it is his,’ broke in MacGregor,
“I was lying to you before—|l didn't
want him to be mixed up in this affair
you see he’s marking my themes for
me this week, and really that’s enough
to keep any man busy without looking
after a snoupy hick detective in asking
simple questions about the ownership
of old firearm.’

The inspector sniffed at the end of the
pistol.

“Well you’ve covered your tracks
pretty well this time MacGregor—”’

“Sir—you’re greatly mistaken if
you think I am Wallie’s murderer—
it’s positiv ely ridiculous.”

“What's that?”

Downstairs there were heard loud
talking and through it the voice of a
girl sobbing hysterically. The  inspector started to leave the room, and
was followed by Prof. Moran who was
intent on expounding on an old historical event:

“Do you know sir, ‘“Ozy was telling
him, “‘we had the identical same thing
happen in this old city some two hun
ded years ago. Three men were hanged for it off Whitepoint Beach.”

But the inspector was more intents on
learning what was going on down below.

He rushed into the front room and
found the boys gathered around Eileen
MacMann, who was crying her eyes out,
Eileen, you will remember was the

| with Hugh Edwards at the Players
ein lub the night before. She lived at
Matchead Ladies’ Residence and was
a regular little college widow. Modern,
pretty with a quick tongue and always
ready for any kind of a party. En1leen
was one of the most popular of Coronian
amongst the boys—the girls feared her
as a deadly adversary.

“J just knew he'd do it. Hugh Edwards said he wouldn’t but they had
such an awful fightover me. I promised Hugh I would go with him to the

stam
Nova Scotia Technical College
OFFERS

ENGINEERING COURSES
Civil, Electrical, Metianical and Mining

To Dalhousie Students with Engineering Diploma
Modern Equipment, Instructing Staff with Industrial Experience
Twenty-five scholarship of $75.00 each.

Write or call for Calendar or advice

F. H. SEXTON, Pres.

   

 

 

 

 

ne

SIRING

New arrivals every day in Men’s Wear.
Sparkling new styles and color effectsin

TOPCOATS and HATS

COLWELL BROTHERS

 

453-457 BARRINGTON ST.

     
   
   

SHIRTS
SUITS

 
   
 

  
 
 
 
 
  
  

LIMITED
HALIFAX

  
 
  
  
     

, 7?

including the Criminal Code.| Junior Prom and poor Wallie wanted

so much to take me. He said that
would be the last time Hugh would
come between us and said I'd be sorry
for what I'd done—and he said some
perfectly awful things to Hugh—and
they fought. Oh it was awful, just
awful—and now Wallie’s dead—and
ve can't go to parties anymore together
oO —_——__——_.
The inspector tried to get more information out of the girl but she was
completely broken down and had to be
taken home, which wasn't the first
time. &

That slob Carl Binads: ana Albie
Graham were gathered together in
Pumpy MacDonald’s room discussing
the crime.

“Tt’s a cinch someone in the college
did it,"’ Pumpy was explaining. ‘The
inspector I i
everybody except Dean MacKean and
he just won't make himself believe
that a Coronian did it.’

                          

   
   
   
       
   
   
  
  
  
  
   
 
   
    
   
   
    
 
 
  

‘‘Who do you think could have done
it Albie?”’ Carl asked,

“Oh most anyone. We all threaten
to murder someone, sometime in our
lives don’t we? Personally I thing it’
a great thing for the college—outside
of losing dear old Wallie, the best
actor that ever trod the boards in this
town. You know I think Ben Acker,
the Editor of the Record did the trick.
He was complaining that there was
nothing happening at the old university and threatened to go out and
murder someone if something didn’t
show up. Well nothing showed up—
so presto Acker quietly pulls the job
and gets a first class story. Did you
notice the Record carried complete details the next day? Usually it takes
them a week to get stuff like that.
They knew beforehand there was going
to be a murder that’s simple! And
yet the students think we should have

Continued on page 4

Blended Right!

Winchesters have
more devoted friends
and more delighted
acquaintances than
ever before.

CIGARETTES

20 for 25c.

 

 

Our High Quality Standard
makes our Low Price
Doubly Attractive

SUITS, OVERCOATS
FULL DRESS and
TUXEDO, at one

price

$24

MADE TO MEASURE

Tip Top Tailors
THE STUDENT'S TAILORS
TRAMWAY BUILDING
Barrington and Sackville Sts.

 

 

GREETINGS !

We always have in stock
large assortment of
Greeting Cards for

Anniversary,

Birthday, etc.
|ALSO

Valentines

FARRELL’S

New Store
446 Barrington Street

A complete Book—Stattonery
and Gift Shop Service

PIANOS, VICT ROLAS,
Small Musical Instruments and Victor Records

We invite you to join our

Fiction Lending Library

2 Cents per day

McDonald Music Co.

93 Barrington St. Halifax.

te tn

 

 

      
    

#
#

en eee Bo Be ee

Mrs ROA Be ee De aie DN I RR

 

warm FE Mem Mn ani NPT SIR

 

Dear Sis :—
Acadia Co-eds were
down this week. We felt

sorry for them. for not
having so near their college such an up-to-date
ladies store at D’Eauville’s

Marge.

Pol Fey auville ’s

ALL COATS $24.00
ALL DRESSES 12.00

in
HALIFAX
31 Spring Garden Road
Stores in Dartmouth and Windsor

ee ee eT eat areas ane eld GaN DSeaetal 1) SNM LAUREN, 1 NN TR TCT TL EE SE a RS 
 

i

 

i tt tt a, SN a eR

 
aaa - ae ae 3 rey cr eer Pe pe eee oe

way

   
   

- - 4 - : .
‘ . i ] 7” re, : . e ‘ ri Pea ff :* ns ae > ay ” pe hy * ms 2 o i m ;
r 4 ; 4 ar a a. | ~ #
: a i : i ni a * ne — ‘2 : at ear yy cee X
‘ & ~ . - _— Pe i a : r is we : A f pte ie a4 ee « fn ne J ; a) a

Awe RR se tee et we Pe os fa is ee i
eee e nr x é DALHOUSIE GAZETTE February 25th, 1980
Pet Re ee ee fs | Pale

: — —= - re \-*. a

eee ee Be : ‘a.

  
 
  

eG
i

  

OPEN Students at Dalhousie

Will you have any spare time during next vacation
or have you now?

There is a great field for remunerative work in this
City and Province selling

INSURANCE

Covering :
AUTOMOBILES, ACCIDENT, SICKNESS, LIABILITY
PLATE GLASS, ETC.

If interested, communicate with us and we shall be
pleased to go into the subject with you.

Yours truly,

THOMPSON, ADAMS & CO., LTD.

166 HOLLIS ST. Telephones S1221 and $1222 HALIFAX, N. S.

CASINO

‘ORPHEUS THEATRE.

MON. TUES. WED.
“The Terror’

WITH

MAY McAVOY

LOUISE FAZENDA

ALEC TRAVERS

EDWARD EVERETT HORTON

A Mystery Thriller
Silent News Comedy

 
      
      
     
     
      
      
       
     
   
   
   
     
   

 

 

         
       
   
   
 

>
1

THURS. FRI. SAT.

“THE IDLE RICH” |

WITH

CONRAD NAGEL, BESSIE
LOVE and LEILA HYAMS

Comedy

 

  
 
  
    
     
  
  
   
 
  
   
    
 
  
 
   
   
 
   
  
   
 
 
   
    
 
 
   
    
   
 
   
   
 
 
   
    
   

| . ae oe i , ;

ea _ Ross, the death of whose father occurred last week.
G fal, ‘The sympathy of the whole University goes out to
Max in his bereavement.

Sound News

  
    

   

/ {nother Debate To Be
__ Broadcast Over C.H.N.S.

- Novel subject assures listeners-in of evening’s
es entertainment.

‘a

 

WASH DAY? {

/ The next time you want your
Students * Laundry finished in a hurry
Call the .

HOME LAUNDRY “.2iby St

Phone L.233I

   

ae oa Sodales Debating Society, ever alive
"hen ie this year with its novel fonts in its
-—s-yéar’s «programme, is broadcasting

i nee erase debate over the Haiifax Radio
Station, C.H.N.S., on Wednesday (tomorrow) night at 7.30 p. m, This

Charlie Clarke, 31, Copy Editor of
Pharos, Honor student in Philosophy,
winner of several scholarsips,  misogynist of note, and so on, will oppose
McIntosh. Clarke is also a newcomer
but there’s no doubt whatever of his

 

 

and want it done neatly
crease we can improve and we should
think of the welfare of the college as a,
whole.

Mr. Stewart for the negative pointed

eee ee te 1 : : out discrepancies in the management THIS WEEK : :
time the speeches will not be repeated] ability when he gets on this suitable rhe 7 ee nes ip eee ‘‘For Particular People”’ Dry Cleaning, Sponging, Pressi
. __ from a society debate as they were iast | subject over the ether. ; Se ete pe eoneys. nets. 1 » the Mon-Tues-Wed mo oer

proof that our money is being well
spent, There is laxity in handlingjthe |
D. A. A. C. gear. Mr. Stewart then
proceeded to attack the present system
and read an article in the Gazette by
Mr. Herbert Morton, auditor of the
Students Council books in which he
stated that a lack of statements of
expenditures hampered a check of the |

| ss time, but a special debate is being
| prepared for the occasion.

| "The subject will be “That woman

has more than come into her own.”’
| The speakers will be Dougias M.
| ~~ -‘Melntosh, Chas. W. Clarke, Muss
|}. +Mary Crocker, and Miss Gertrude
} aT Hemphill. :

Miss Gertrude Hemphill, ‘31,
member of last year’s Intercollegiate
Debating Team against Acadia in
Halifax,

Miss Mary Crocker, '31, co-winner
of Bennett Shield, Secretary-Treasurer
of Delta Gamma.

With these four before the micro
__ MARION
DAVIES

In her first Talking Picture
° 9?
“Marianne

ro

 

 

ai

Lord Nelson The

——$———S[—

ir ’ ; phone tomorrow night for 80 minutes, ree , 5 ; '

, _—sCs Bourg. Mcintosh, ‘30, is now mak-|at 7.30 p. m., a real entertainment is accounts. A onion ; ore - ae ee Hotel Halifax Chronicle
a a ing his first appearance in a Sodaies/assured. Last time the debate broad- Filo cee. Bake = to Laie PeMcGill Thur-Fri-Saturday KeDD

aoe debate, but is known to be brilliant on|cast brought forth many favorable sponsors this. kind of an organization (The Social Center)

“The Lone Star

9?
Ranger
Zane Grey’s First
All-Talking Picture

his feet. Has shown forth his talent
at Pine Hill on many occasions, and

tomorrow night will not tail us.

comments. Don't neglect to tune in
—if you're not in a house or residence
with a set, by all means get into one.

a a

and it does so in conjunction with
Montreal University. The opposition
is not against the $10.00 fee as such
but rather opposes the present system.

The floor was thrown open:—

Mr. R. J. MacDonald opposed the
fee stating that he wanted something
for it. There are no promises for the
actual expenditure and after D.A.A.C.
gets the extra money what is left for
the other societies.

Miss Helen Williams discussed the
matter from the girls point of view
stating that the girls do not get their
fair share but she was in favor of the
increase.

Mr. Harris, secretary of Sodales
made a statement on behalf of Sodales
showing how the Society was cramped
in its activities being unable to entertain
visiting teams adequately and to put
on more debates.

George MacLeod,

|

La

EEC aoe dimer sak) ak Laan de ee
ro ¥ . ae
+ ss

The
Halifax Daily Star

The Ideal Atmosphere for
your Saturday Evening
Dance, or at any other time
for your Bridge parties,
Dinners, Dances, Etc. : 1:

AFTERNOON TEA,

. Orchestra—4.30 to 5.30

SUNDAY CONCERT

to 10 p. m.

 

 

 

The Coming Elections mn

fastest growing

 

Fra 2a Continued from page 1 Constantly associating with each other
than under the present system. For
purposes where co-operation is desired
these groups could come together in
‘their respective years. This is only
one of a number of suggestions that
might be offered to stimulate interest
in class activites.

Co-eds on the Council should represent the interests of co-eds, and not
those of the men students, alson only
co-eds should vote for those of their
own sex who are candidates for election.

a . ~ Criticism of a solely destructive
nature is valueless in this connection.
_ The following suggestions may be
| ——s equaiily “valueless, but are offered at
feast as possibilities to adopt in the
; -__—s present situation. It would be futile
|  —s t®:sC#eexchange our system of Council
_—__— representation by classes and faculties
-___ until something better is found. It is
/-——s humbly submitted that the fault in this
3 < connection lies not so much with the

C; A RRI CK newspapers ip
THIS WEEK Wt rate. SA EAL ce) b
WED. and THUR. a i a i Nae he

COLLEEN MOORE

ht

“Footlights and

Nova Scotia

 

Se’ Eee
—---- - 
|

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

MACLEop, BALCOM Re: |

captain of the

 

_ system as with the students them-| Similarly, with the men at the Univer-| football team, spoke in favor of the LIMITED MULTIGRAPHING
_ selves. Interest in class activities at|sity. They should not vote for those] increase pointing out how more money R | 9 DIRECT MAIL |
| _ _Dalhousie is now practically dead.| who bid them to Delta Gamma, but} was needed. O1S 34 Morris Street
| _-~——« Some means must be found of stimula-| only for male members of the Council.]| Mr. J. K. McKee opposed the fee. ADVERTISING
Megas, ting this interest, or the present- meth-| [If this plan were: carried out it would Mr. John Denoon, attacked the pro- FRI. and SAT. 174 Spring Garden Rd BLANK PAPER
ods of organization — abandoned. A|remove the undersirable feature of| posed voucher system offered by the
"class at Dalhousie might now be de-| Council members, or prospective mem-! negative, and said that they didn’t ENVELOPES

  
   
 
  
  
  
  
   
 
  
   
    
  
 
    
  
   
    
 

bers, receiving many votes on merely
their ‘‘face’’ value—(excuse this please).
Finally, it is urged that a more intelligent interest be shown in the event of
March oth, than has been shown in
the past on occasions of a similar nature.
This applies both to choice of candidates and in the voting on these chosen
members of the student body.

offer anything to take the place of the
increase.

Mr. Levy doubted how mutch advantage the extra $3.00 would be.

Mr. Ralph Morton favoured the
$10.00 fee asserting that it a show was
coming on the students in it gaye unsparingly of their time to make it a
success, and that those who oppose the
raise don’t work for any organization.
The Gazette is hampered for money.

Mr. Harold Nicholls showed how
the second basketball team were forced
to buy their own uniforms due to lack
of money in the Council.

Mr. Goudy opposed the fee alleging
a lack of system,

Mr. S. W. Archibald on behalf of the
increase showed how it is impossible
to put $3000 worth of advertising in
the Gazette and have reading matter
besides. Last year’s Year Book was
fine but it required extoitionable methods to raise money to make it possible.

Mr. K. S. Smith also spoke.

A rebuttal was then given
principal speakers.

Mr. Stewart restated the auditors
remarks and suggested a new system.
The time is not ripe for an increase yet.

Cor. Quinpool Road
and Oxford Street

and Bedford

ee meet all in one place at one time.
It has been suggested by some that a
splitting up into smaller groups might
be desirable. For instance the first
LJ ee year students would be grouped as
_ ~~ Commerce, Engineering, etc, with pos~~ sibly the co-eds as a separate body.
_ Greater community of interest could
at then be established, since the several

‘i E. & members of the groups would be more

_ Support for
Games Needed

. &
ar

Pass”

With
DOUGLAS FAIRBANKS, Jr
and LORETTA YOUNG

) Sie fined as a collection of individuals who
Pete <
Pe te he

NOVA PRINT,LTD|
' 227-229 HOLLIS STREET |
We'Keep Delivery Promises

“The Forward

|
203 Young Street
|

 

 

 

 

| Py FROM THE

WINNERS FROMTt
For 60 years the REACH Trade
Mark on Sporting Goods has been
a mark of perfection. No matter
what your favorite sport may be,
we can supply you with equipment
that will help you play the game
with the best that’s in you.

CRAGG BROS. CO.,

Limited
Hardware and Sporting Goods
HALIFAX, N. S.

 

There’s something new breaking. They
‘ve found a clue. A girl’s handkerchief in the room with initials R. Mack.
The Dean is now investigating all the
girls’ initials at Matchead Girls’ Res-dence to find the owner. Gee that’s
bad. Weill | must be off.”

“R. Mack,” repeated Pumpy, “now
with my vast experience with Corona
women | should know that one. Gee
I cant think of one Mack girl in
college, can you Carl?”

“No,” said Carl slowly, “I can’t.”

But on his way homeward he couldn't
forget the lie he had told Pumpy MacDonald. ‘“‘R. Mack.” true, not a
college girl, but what was her handker‘chief doing in Wallie Sedgmore’s room.
R,. Mack, Ruth MackKean’s initials,
Dean MacKean’s only daughter, his

ne The Editor, 7%
; eae oe Gazette,

a rey ; “en yictories and one game drawn—
____ that is the record of our college team to
_* date, and the drawn game was an
early season exhibition fixture. |
__ Dalhousie has won the Halifax City
_ €hampionships for the first time in
oF ve years. An All-star team, chosen
- from among the best players in the
City League was given a decisive
De beating only last week, at the conclu
 

the

 

A. PUBLICOVER

 

 
 

sion of the scheduled games. roommate’s little high school friend.| Mr. MacIntosh closed the debate by 2 Shops
But where are our Dalhousie sup-| What was the handkerchief of John | stating that the main arguments for the LORD NELSON HOTEL
f porters? In this college, or at least Clark's girl doing in the murdered man’s | Negative were reforms in the system. and

  
    
    
  
 
 
   
 
 

n this case, the old maxim that,
“Crowds follow a winning team‘ does
- not seem to hold good. Even at home
_ games attendance is sparse, and at
- th e recent All-star exhibition game
there were, to our best belief, TWO
____Dalhousians present.
Please pass this information along
_ The Tigers are within striking distance
of the Provincial Basketball Champion) title for the first time in years.
port or lack of support may well
victory or defeat. Please ask the

7%

 

I'd Die For

Old Corona

  

    
   
   
   
   
  
   
 
 
  
 

Reforms have been going on recently,
Now there are monthly checks of
accounts and as to the proposed voucher
system, this system was tried ten
years ago and was discarded and there
will be proportionate allotment of the
extra $3.00,
A vote of the audience was:—
Negative 22
Affirmative 16
The meeting then adjourned.
KSS

he

LOST

Gold Dunhill Cigarette
Lighter.

room? Should he tell John? This
bothered him. But it bothered him
for a very short time tor on arriving at
his room John Clark was nowhere to be
seen. His travelling case and belongings were missing too. He would
not ask any questions for John Clark
had disappeared!
(To be Continued).

idalde s<-. -%s

(Continued from Page 1)

students go to Glee Club and too many
town people attend. Miss Miller also
stated that it costs very little to produce
a Glee Club show and that town people
should pay. Until the Council charge
admission to these outsiders they are
not justified in asking for more money.
The present system has defects and a
voucher system should be involved,

 

      

 

 

 

23 SPRING GARDEN RD.

CENTRAL—The nearest Barber Shop to the College
SERVICE--Always experienced
Barbers at your service
Special Bobbing Parlors
For Ladies at
23 Spring Garden Road

This Week

Tke height of our February
Clearance

MANY GOOD BARGAINS
FOR MEN AND WOMEN

TUTTLE’S

 

ee
pen ee, ee
aah

kee
am

Gran. the workings of which Miss Miller out- Dropped in the Science 3
o tinued f; 3 lined. She concluded by referring t
Bee 9 FE nntiine. eit: : ring to ery:
mr. on - sail SPENDS Boneh _ | the old item of $160 for enon ahd Building, Mon. Feb. 17 SHOE STORES
Er the Record prints | said that this should not be.

 
  
 
 
 
 
 

| n't be a_tool all your life
ee niga ee 1
-man- iting sister of Eileen
's. did the trick. She hated

he was always asking her to
him ce

im and he swore that

   
 
 
 

than materially assist the college.

in}cheaper brand of goods and produce

Please return to University office or Jack Mahar

 
 
 

     

Miss Page, in supporting the affirmative asserted that seven dollars
can only buy seven dollars worth, and
the attitude of these opposed to the
raise is stinginess in itself. They prefer to haggle over three dollars rather

 

 

The Students’ Council is only asking
for support. By reason of the seven
dollar fee, we are forced to deal in a

NEW ARRIVALS

IN

 

  

cheaper shows. We have to try and

 
  
  
 
   

25 Spring Garden Road.
557-559 Barrinetcn Street.
and Dartmouth.

 

Get Your
Hair Cut

  

Eatonia NECKWEAR
1.0

 

Excellent quality in a fine silk

, ; :
u're so- keep up with the Jones. Miss Page New Spring Hats . ? :

laughe | Carl. in referring to the argument that only Shield $ Barber Shops Good range of patterns
mBy answered|one half of the students get their $2.95 and $1.95 Neothaus scat

   

lik to Wallie,
. ¥ up e

1
- 2 Qe
—_

Ibie}money’s worth said that this was
_a|their own fault, if they didn’t wish to

   

he says the| attend and the students always s |
emielic d al € students always support
reluctance to pay the extra three
dollars. By degrees, with the in
 
  
 

JENSEN & MILLS CO.

LIMITED
SPRING GARDEN ROAD

participate in college activities. As to
Glee Club in reality very few*outsiders

It is sheer meanness to show

 
 

     
     
          

41 Sackville St. and Roy Bldg.
[Sth floor]

Our Roy Building shop will
_appeal to the ladies of Shirriff Hall.

Phone S448 for appointment.
Open Saturday evenings.

#T.

The best values in ties

EATON

MARITIME ©

o

LIMITED

 

 

 

oe at <a ;
i z 7 ' - i a
e- r 7 ft sean, & * ae ie ’ “- ie é, t
city as SR ; (hae
POG S chs ef =f
: snap mart % ‘ at eg ee 4 ak ; “li gi 4 " a
at ll ; »
- , fe m8 — >. » . 4 Ju, 5 ‘ A r Ta“ . s rn a
- ee Ra NBs eg ee eee ee ‘ fh mi P } ae eh MA
as = a = eee —e a

 
