  
    
    
  

    

  

" - —— yg ene = : in - — a we ha. 2 “= "9 a a F
an ae on ee = Fee oa e : 7 a, Py 7 + i
a Lt Ree Oe toe ERE 4 a ny : > ks ‘ ow = y~ ae saa ‘ a. = “7 5 “ ei Te] . 4 .
ie’ on 2 ayn Cee ht ’ : i
ee ‘ # . y 4 fF es aa 4 “~ . 1 .
ee : a © .
+i ' - i r : : a

s % =a SS - ~ As ©

’ ’ QS AS SAS ry PAN poke eR aS aS : . poets st ~e 3 
asette Extends to its Many Readers the Sincerest Wish

erry Christmas and A Most Successful New Year

   

.

   

oe ~ t

Boa. ) HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA, DECEMBER 8rp, 1929. No. ?

hy ent
a ~
a
3A
=
>

  
 
     
   
   
      
   
  
  

   
      

=

JUNIOR CLASS WINS BENNETT AWARD

y

  

i:

 
  
  

 

=

| AUDIENCE PLEASED WITH “THE MONKEY'S PAW’?Junior - Soph Debaters

 

  
   
  
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
    
   
   
   
  
 
 
    
   
   
 
   
 

      

Favour Silent Movie

John Y. MacDonald and Mary Crocker denounce
‘“Talkies’’ before Sodales Audience

 

XMAS SEASON AT THE HALL

_ & Final Glee
oe Club Show
Presented

_ & Symphony Orchestra a
_S% pleasing feature of

at programme

_ &% The Dahousie Gee and Dramatic

_  & Society held its last pre-Christmas

_ @f% meeting on Thursday night in the
_ ty Gymnasium. The audience’ was not

ei 80° as usual, probably because of
. the tening nearness of exams.
% Among the absentees was noticed the
«i new eos which was replaced
© $Y by our old friend the “Pull-Together”
sy curtain. The programme consisted of

' $f a one-act play and a number of selec
tions menial by the Dalhousie Sym- % phony Orchestra.

i ‘The play bore the interesting tite
- @¢ “The Monkey’s Paw,” savouring of
. ai E. age! ay ppenheim and mystery.
 &@? Under the capable direction of Prof.

Withdrawing

   
 
 
 
  
  
   
  
 
   

 
  
  

‘Twas the week ‘fore Exams and all through the Hall,

Not a Co-Ed was stirring....not a single ‘phone call.

Just one mournful figure had courage to roam

And found on the doors, ““Don’t knock, I|’m not home.”’
They wished they were nestled all snug in their beds

So visions of pass-marks could dance in their hands.

The freshette next door, with the red and green jacket
Had just gone to bed, when we heard a big racket,

‘Twas somewhere nearby that arose this great clatter

And we sprang from our desks to see what was the matter.

Wie

 

hort bh a

 

On Wednesday evening, Novembe
2ith, the Junior Class emerged victor
lous in the series of inter-class debat
which have been held recently for th
Bennett Shield.

Mr. Howse, President of Sodale
opened the meeting. Mr. Harris, th
}secretary read the minutes following
which he announced that he had
received a letter from the Secretary o
the N. F.C. U.S. stating that arrangements for a debate between an Ameri-%,
can team and one of our own, hay
been completed, and that the event
would take place during the first week
in February.

Mr. Howse -then introduced the
speakers for the evening and the
debate began,

The subject was:—‘Resolved that
moving pictures should be seen and
not heard.”

Mr. John A, Y. MacDonald and
Miss Mary Crocker upholding the
attirmatiye side of the resolution and

 

 

Shids

New Manager

 

yf

Away to the corridor we flew like a tlash

Scolded and raved while our tongues were a lash.
The moon on the breast of the trost-bitten ground
Gave the colour of twilight to objects around.

We looked out the window and there, with surprise,
We saw a big “circus’’ right under our eyes.

There was a leader who bossed all the rest;

He -made them step lively to do his behest.

SRN

os

They went through their paces, like trotting-race horses,
And when they kept still, to restore their spent forces,
The leader cried out: ‘We have lamour rope-walkers
Here with us tonight, and eminent talkers

Who, with many others, for the pleasure of all,

Will give a pertormance in front of the Hall.”

As dry leaves that betore the wild hurricane fly,

When they meet with an obstacle, mount to the sky,

ye

Prove vier

 

‘es f Miz acOdr i ; . So up to their feet these poor creatures sprang, the Junior Class. :
a ae ee acetate eae rey rac sue Col. W. E. Thompson, for many And through the still nignt their deep voices rang. a Mr, Rees McCarthy and Miss 7
a ‘Mi gruesome. The gripping action centred | years lecturer in the Law and Practice Ales ne : ich lninney speaking in favor gx
«SY «round the c ic of a mummifed| of Insurance at Dalhousie Law School And then in a twinkling, we saw what it meant— 0 te ec eery €, representing the o
we : monkey's paw, whi brought tragedy whose retirement was announced last Why....they were Krat initiates merely “hall-bent. : ee eo Rae Ciass. aah

na Delt ite those who tried to profit by its| week. His place will be filled by F. H. »~o we drew in our heads and were turning around, dud Mable he wd san:.|3 or I acUonald spoke first, indicata _@ fiendish power. The character roles} Jones. When all through the Halli there came a snrill sound; , ing the relation between the talxies

age the Dalhousie Hoopsters

_-—s- -«s were both well choses and well executed. this year

77 Miss Anna Taylor and Mr. J. A. Y.
i MacDonald assumed the weight and
| -—« Sy responsibility of years, and reproduced
__—s-&f# ~Swith remarkable vividness the sorrow
37 of an old couple, who find the simpe,
_  %y ‘oving hopes of a lifetime shattered by
Eat if the terrible death of their only son,
it.

It was the dear ‘‘quiet bell”’ ringing we knew,

wean And back to our hideous labours we flew.
Class ’31 has

. Vith apologies to C. C. Moore).
Splendid Record rte, A
“The Junior Class ('31) who retained An Urgent Need

the Hon. R. B. Bennett Shield on

and the silent pictures. He pointed
out how limited is the scope of the
talkies and how the conversation tends
Mac Odrum to distract the picture, Movie direc- 7g
tors produce pictures which in many @&

cases are not suited to tz
(New Manager eats ulted to talkes, and the

‘ . of conversation coming out
A special meeting of the D. A, A. C.| trom the screen aliows the imagination

a

 

Biro ite

 

 

rogh ee : ; ageme fas Si lay| much treer scope. Mr. Macw d
$Y Mr. Raymond McCarthy, who is not Reap oak AR Sad ; management was held on Saturday} much tf ope . Macwonaid 7
} a oy unknown to the faithful of Sodales, cee cepa egg a history anes Medical Student stresses absence of proper accom- afternoon in the Munroe room of the/ then stated that the iengiish people ZAN

_ ‘&& made a very realistic, war-worn veteran

~~ h e
+ ~"

Forrest Bldg. with Pres. George Mac-| won't go to the talkies because they
bringing the curse of the Paw to the Leod in the Chair. don't like the offensive jargon the

ing record: unequalled, in “many yeare, modation for Pathological Specimens
li ever.

 

<j happy household, even while warning|" ‘\ a 5 After the reading of the minutes of} Americans cali “speech.” ‘Ine major
. , t present, after being at Dalhousie oe sas a eerie ; ae ‘
_ &@ the family of the dangers that attend, ye and a half yeais the third} Dear Mr, Editor; results would be lightened. a ve reer i ag Se cere ey See ee on ey eee
<7 it. Mr. Rolph Grant, in the part of ; , : ization the Dalhousie Hockey question|ciub scense, cheap diaiogue and tne

year class has been represented in six} Your correspondence columns, it| ‘lo whom are we to appeal Mr. Editor
debates, of which they haye won five,|seems to me, is the proper place in| In my ignorance | turn to you, In the
losing only the first when they were| which to mention a matter that con-/ past the bringing to light of our prob
the promising son, whose death was the
centre of the play, proved that the
gridiron is not the only field of his

was brought up and after considerable] like. bkurthermore the adaussion price Ty
discussion it was decided to carry a] is raised, and tally there is no reiaxa- ie

 

arnstorming team for the winter.| tion / rhich ;
s aes , freshmen. stantly comes betore the senior students| ems in your columsn has produced oe a hea wee ira cMet, wha. or ae the nerves which are kept on
* coll activities, Mr. Alex Nickerson ; : : ae | ere. fe en a 1 ith Martin ana MacNeill who are | edge continually,
ee . . h + + ; 1927-28—Lost to Sophomores, mid-|ot both Medicine and Dentistry. rapid and etiective results. already signed by the Wolverines iMr, McCarthy then came to th
Si@ was the bearer of the tragic news, which | dje of October. ‘Those ot us, who, in the course of frust that such may be our lot with : . vo
he broke as gently as ble to the

avaiable, it is felt that hockey which| support of the negative, tac talkies,
has been on the decline for the past/ ana tne Sophomores.
few years will be revived at Dalhousie, Lhe talkies, ne said, are a continua
1928-29—Defeated freshmen, in fres| our studies, have to spend much time| this ‘‘our glaring necessity.”
hie-soph debate; represented by Miss; around the Pathalogical Institute all 1 at least would like to hear from
Helen Williams and Gordon Harris. agree that in that so-completely and| some others on the subject. lhanking

sy grief-stricken parents. The whole piece
if was alive with absorbing interest that
was heightened by a touch of the

 

AS. ; | this winter, tion of the stage and oruinary silent
: ed freshmen in Bennett Seri srnly “d bDuil re ig | you Mr. Editor, atte risi ,
i occult and a sense of mysterious fore- eee = Me bite Macc ries | modernly equipped building there 1s) you Mr. Editor, The matter of a visit from the| moving picture. in tormer cimes it
7 sy boding ae Dorie M EAS ee OR on a se ee pourecr University of British Columbia foot-|} was impossipie to hear sounds of a
eee - r . ss an oris Nargeson. absolute non-existence Of museum ac-| b; - , a
+: oe a any, ) all team was then brought up and me ne ; *r scenes
| &@ The Dalhousie Choral Society was| Defeated juniors in Bennett Scries | commodatin. & P street scene and other scenes.

Piso eis

; A stage
MED IV. it was pointed out that Dalnousie/is cramped in action and the silent 78
would not be able to accomodate them} movies emit no sound. Ihe talking Ze
in the Spring but would be only too] picture is theretore a means of comglad to arrange a series of games with} vining both, and overcoming tne limi- §
them next fall, ; tations Oo: each, hey are a success
jim MacLeod was appointed to|ana are meeting with popularity.

make arrangements for Wal entries further, these new pictures are as yet
é

  
 
  
   
 
   
 

sm _~- unable to present its promised numbers
ru as ont tenia” Wigan ie « toa 1929-3U—Defeated seniors in Bena Se P crea Series; d by John A. Y : : only e | 7
* - bonny nett Series; represented by + | Stalt Ol the institute for not only once | C
ie ae “ the i r La og wy mg more | MacDonald and Mary Crocker , but many times have we heard Dr. | ommiuttee
<7 phe ote . ve 0 d y ae sym- Defeated sophomores nm hnal of | smith decry this gituacion, d
' ed + Ne caile direction of Mr. Scie Sinoee series; same team retained Shield for We are lortunate im possessing this Announce
1 os the hes has de ais ; : ? Class. , institute, s0 compieteiy equipped as it
SY tu ve Lf te - Student This notable record is all the more}is, put we, the semor ciasses do tee! Sodales Debating Society an| Se fully, and is a real feature of Student) .. when it is recognized that in the} tnat it is lacking in that one respect oe : J
+S Acitivity. niredet > ehers fi: : _FESPeCl. | nounces the following Committee,
ea Atidion Pel last four debates recorded, there have} «As things are at present, there is a tod tm atndie adsire incon
ee es Sa: PEO four men and two girls ineligible, large room set aside tor a museum Weer h the M U erSs gramme both vale gay, and This notable contribution to senior] ana in it scattered to its tour corners Se hae aol iceba De babs ”
‘= ae skill ote oy ble = _ by teams while only a second year class}is a collection ot numerous botties ot eee rete Ott as Sint
es ie , eee €, Dut also Dy! has put Class 31 into much prominence | specimens, some labelled, some ignor- oe Fe ecthecsan eae
~ she. oe tedae eccrine on S Last year Arthur Pattillo, Gordon | eq, some tresh, some ancient, some evet capeten ; Pe ta ‘
a was pla a os ee as Cooper, Tom MacDonald, W. H. Jost,|some crumbling trom age, some with eeece B.A
ey Trish odi ‘ ever! Gertrude Hemphill, and Lillian Sadler, | pistories, some ot “unknown etialogy.”' hiss Nad ‘| ine P B. A
 $% popular Irish melodies, woven into} vere all selected for senior teams— oh te Miss Madeleine Page, Bb. A.
’ l ineré are signs in abundance that B. A
‘Sm a single piece. The orchestra then ; 2 Miss Margaret Elis, 6. A.
2? gave what is perhaps the biggest six of Dal’s eleven senior debaters.|some attempt has been made at classi- Robert ‘1. Donald
vo eave, @ prrhepe Com) Yet apparently handicapped by the] peati on dl = peere: ss ;
_ position ever attempted by Dalhousie ication and we do appreciate such
oa ASIC § | loss of these six, the class has taken the] attempts
34 musicians, namely the celebrated "Un-| Shieid both years.
SY finished Symphony” by Franz Schubert. ‘Lis was followed by a ‘Novel
& sr" by another watkaown compose: | Dentals Meet

1 N < Don Murray, The programme ea Sa sae eae from ee al members of the Committee.
| an becught to a & icles with ; € and many outside physicians daily not yet been detinite‘ ap te ny as airs, which The Dalhousie Dental Society held] visiting this building surely the need sec Eucinnuacea ‘Cae it is expected
& umparted a Yule-tide atmosphere, while a special meeting i the Dental theatre} is one the urgency and necessity of |¢that this able committee named
an hour of dancing to the music of |° Saturday morning to consider the] which is apparent to all concerned. will have some announcements to
ohn Budd's Collegians sent the Dal-|TePports of the Dance Committee and We have, on inquiry, been told that | make in the near future.
ns home happy to their text- the Social Committee. H, Clark on|the tack is merely due to ignorance of “Gerry’’ Redmond who is to be
Cane J. behalf of the terpischorean sponsors} tne condition, in the minds of those Chairman this year attended the
stated that the informal dance had| who could rectify it. Session last year at Sackville, N. B.,
been a financial syccess, which news ihe actual cost of improving affairs |as jeader of the Dai delegation.
nthusiasm of his or-| cme as agreat relief to those who | wouid only be a nominai one and once | His extensive study of Internationne realizes that the had been so severely bitten in a similar) tne improvement was made it would | al Atiaire fit him for this position
ra ig a enterprise last year. need no turther financial upkeep. excellently, having taken his M. A.
_ Harrington announced that another! 4 few poarus for shelves, some naile, degree in Political Science. He is
emoker would be held early in thé) ana @ gooa carpenter for a few hours | now « senior in Law.
| Spring sess100. _.| would eo correct thie condition that
_ Cy MacMullen was mepoinees es teaching facilities would be improved,
the learning of pathology would be] [t's a very funny thing, but the

irsday: oes = the meeting ad-| made easier, and the tracing of ultimate | hett st girls always dr es th cool at.

final; same team won Shield for Class. 1 nis tauit is certainly not one which |

falls on the shoulders of the executive |

@

to the Intercollegiate Boxing tourna-|in tneir intancy and taey snow great
ment which is scheduled tor next spring. | promise
Lhe resignation of Archie MacVon
lages Of hearing the voice are many.
ald as Basketball Manager was then] ,jaotion, tor instance, can be depicted

ior the future. lhe advan
accepted, Mr. MacWVonald gave as] py voice intiexion instead ot overdone
his reasons for resigning the tact that | yaciat aistoruon as was lormerly the
as he had aiready given a great deal|case. A voice also conveys cnaracter.
of time to Kugby this fall a turther| jn the
participance in non-acedemic activities
might prove disastrous,

Gordon MacUOdrum was then appointed to fill the vacancy and wiil
carry on as Basketball mentor for the
winter,

MacOdrum is a splendid choice for
this position as he has had more experience in Basketball circles than
anyone else at the University. He has
played senior bail here tor three seasons

ordinary sient movie Mr,
wieLlarthy conciuded, the suod-tities
Ureak tne CONtMMUITy Of the pictures.

iiss Wlary Crocker, the third speaker, Contended that tormerly tne movies
were a relaxation Dut now they aad
ceased to be so, due to tne constant
noise emanating trom the screen.
Lune music also, a talkie soon becomes
out of date and often pictures arriving
here Contains miusicai numbers long

: , {since detunct, Lhe silent pictures
and was captain of the squad in 19Z0] with tne aia of orchestras were not
under the managership of (Juack

open to tais bad teature. Too
MacQuade. WUuring his stay at Acadia =

: In addition to these, Professor
byt Mr, Editor, how can we| RR, a, MacKay and the Officers of
expect the specimens to remain in their the Sodales Debating Society, Ernproper places when there are ho proper! est M. Howse, Helen G. Williama,
places provided- And with two years and R. Gordon Harris, are addition

 

ons

attention is given to the voice now io
he made the Senior team there, holding selecting Cee and actres
. “4 ; Ses, and
down the position of 1eit guard.

not enough attention is paid to the
the prospects for a winning team]... é
acting aolity. Lhe voices

this year are the best in the world as 8 y os aoe ee

music are not natural bu
will be seen by the separate story ap- t sound like
pearing in this issue,

         

and value of Mr. Singer's

         

 

 

# poor radio or a cheap gramaphone.

in closing her speecn, Miss Crocker

Oe ere showed how our local orchestras were
NOTICE, deprived ot empioyment and certaimy #o
All those who hope tO | bois is not tair expecially woen all wea

: get 1D return Is Cheap Yankee jazz,
obtain a Master’s Degree|” sius sctinnacy, tae tia sane

next spring are asked to|°! “© evening, made the preiiminary =
: ; ‘ statement that only the best 1s accepted
give their names to Gore/in tne talkies. inw vemg tue tof)

don Harris. | Piesss burn to page 4

    

i

7 Pay F'
a? ee

i ~~" ee

‘ a . ty

        
  

  
  
 
  
 
      
  
  
 
   

eam

every moment of our lives, we are in
danger, in danger of an _ upheaval
even more appalling than that which

=e. threatened and then terrorized France
DBE MARC : : ’ years ago. More appalling, |

    

  

Pod

  
  
 
  
  
    
  
 
   
 
   
  
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
   
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
  

Say

 
   
 

Paz. oe iat

  
 

  

y and Girls’ Sport. Sport Editor. _|because, though it is bloodless, it is
“NI WILLIAMS, | Mig te a AteeR, spreading like flames that eat their
ees cM a jl ; ’ |deyouring way through a forest of fair
: ° ei See eae It is a peril that is grawing at
pes ss Associate Editors, neers

ai a the roots of our civilization threatening
pee nee ~ MADELEINE PAGE, B, A. to overthrow the splendid croweh of
owas s : society. Whatisthis menace? Where
a onager. F. ; Ass. Business Manager. UE is its lair? It is, | say, in our univerALD, e nds J. R, DONAHUE. sities, among our college students.’

L, 2291. Phone Sac. 4086].

A FALSE IMPRESSION

The above text has been-cited in all
conceivable forms, not only by earnest
preachers, -but in editorials, in magazine articles, in addresses at Welfare
Meetings, broadcast by the written

_ CHRISTMAS.
and the spoken word, so much so that

CHRISTMAS. With all it’s wealth of association in the college students are beginning to con: e all of us, pleasant memories of former festive seasons, |sider themselves quite a sophisticated
ea fice for ch Christmas days to come, with New Year's resolutions ee West N seeicioe tome
oe e Reece just beyond, crowds upon us. Santa Claus has again regard the world as filled with apee - official ly made his appearance to the blare of trumpet and joyful
cries

d. Th prehension and obstinately set against
to the youngest of us, too young yet, to be disillusione e|the newcomers, despite the words of
"spirit of old ee. hasagain captured the imaginations of}encouragement and approval offered
ever yone, smoothing out the frowns of tired faces, bringing joy

and gladness in the forgetfullness of petty troubles, of strife be
them at Convocation. The result of so
mL > many tirades has not reformed in any
_ re
e a tween men and nations.
pee pit yes Ae ee
a 7 ten

way the college students; on the con+ oes end fe
ey, |

trary, the only effect has been the
The mndeveraduate’ = desire a tie Yuletide season is tempered one atmosphere. The leaders of soc2

creation of an entirely false impression
h lety in the march of civilization look

with the fear of approaching examinations. They present, the] tance at all forms of Student activity,
ot a

“enerwrought i imagination a series of desperately high hurdles to be} the less educated people think colleges

     
  
   
    
   
  

b
[ o e 1
ry f
5
bi

     
 

  

      
      
  
  
    
 
 
  
    
  
   
    
     
 
   
  
 
  
 
  
 

   
  
 

oe homes where snobbery and sedition
es hy-the-fortunate, but alas! some to be knocked down by [are
cap re , are carefully nursed, and, worst of all,
mera eus who, in a last’ frantic endeavor to eae the i eae get etna made te toc therectves
Of défeat, stay up far into the night, with the aid of strong, black] ;7, wrong light.

and: other effective stimulants. But what matter, when] Whenever anyone is asked to give a

oa Te ave he considers
F ristmas is: coming, when soon with cheery good-byes we leave specific example of what
s . », | “revolutionary” on the part of College
the old d-college, and with joyous hellos great those we love at home. nies, he Heine @htlbawa and generalizes
ae Pik eg anys PISEY ¢ Christmas and a Happy New Year. ee

vaguely aboud ‘flasks and cigaretteGales Four gases -- fiends, oh, yes! and roadsters, tearing
around at all hours of the night,

b
ae

< = ea: Le. hese Fee and
Bi “ren No Seen ~ STUDYING INEVITABLE. low jokes.”
ei mat rs oe Dat pica t ss

CITED WRONGS TIMEWORN

¥" ast Bag. ete
% "Phere seems | to be nothing to do but study. University men
and womer are actually: seen self-consciously reconnoitering the} But even admitting that these asserLibrary when they are not loitering, in evident bewilderment, |tions are true, does that prove that
about. the buildings, or indulging in a hurried smoke. are eee of panies against
one are the old familiar faces from the Bridge Table in the Arts have been using hip:pocket flasks
naeeF B a building or the reading rooms of the Forrest Haars that one ae the a Aust Noah fermented
ata i a : ter disregard of assignments and} the juice of the grape; people have
' & Sides long and often with’ me , 8 S ‘been smoking since Sir Walter’s lucky

pera strike that introduced tobacco leaf into
- "There seems ‘to. be nothing: to do but study. Back to nor- Europe; as for roadsters, most students

ye But. on- ‘second. thought,) we wonder just which phase is| ar. happy if they are given a ride in
tmalcy : the lull before the storm, or ‘the storm itself. Are we oe twice She beer i fore
oa” athers went buggy-ri ing and no one
= justifi fied me wopslerinig? likened them to Russian Reds. The
OMe Saaesane peia the 2 only difference between a buggy and
ea en Hine ak: a roadster is that a roadster won’t
steer itself. As for jokes, even a
modern med. student would ‘look the

People

   
  
 
     
   
    
    
 
  
 
    
  
    
  
  
   
  
 
 
 
  
   
 
  
  
 
  
   
   
  
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
    
 
 
   
  
  
   

+ a = ie 7
om, ¥
a

 

of ope mats BUSINESS OF BEING COLLEGE BRED.
4 meen Y eethdire Ya ie
=e ay . Pell
pa Ost le today are of the belief that a college education
ss ane at y We ociee power of an individual; and that as a result
bee having. purcued a technical course of study i in an-institution of
| Or higher-learning; the young men and women graduating from all
Kinds of schools and colleges today are capable of earning more

+ eh OS ess immediately upon leavin Experimental Station ,
areca than had ey entered busin eer? 8 Halifax, N.S.
‘schoo Nov... 29/29

i: fa Br oe ts F. Clarke, professor of education at New York

| Tea cher’ College, maintains, however, that nee ee wi labot-} Dear Mr Editor: a
under a” alse impression, and points out that a college education] In some corner of the paper is a
a os lly.cuts ea ning power use it overcrowds the profe sions mae a ee ae a Dee seth
_ and vecations. - Questioning the notion hat each year pent in|‘® cay heiterteebiaae ites

3rd. A rchance som ht
__ col ege adds a definite number of dollars to earning power, Dr. pan oF abe rcs baer egal

overlook this notice while perusing
ee a? | Clark: says: _ other latters of wisdom in the pages,

Pewee “The persons who are earning high wages today would have}! make a suggestion or two why it
F a a them without the help of education. It is quite natural eG nn read and no less
that ‘if. = compare non-educated persons with educated persons| We Dalhousians are a pretty poor
ee eta find the latter earning more money because that type of|tot. For the most part we sit at the
_ person is going to college today. To reveal actual results of edu-|feet of good men who provide ready
_ eation, you are obliged to compare the two groups of equally cap-|™ade ideas which we take note of
and requrgitate on examination papers
ie. persons: If any one thing stands out from all the material |#¢ °° a ghe
e year. n this we are not un
a ee ardine ttatiess are a determining factor in the economic effects like other alleged students in North
of. re It cannot be too strongly emphasized that any

one | America.
es: education poe be over-supplied from the economic stand- How many of us are forming tastes
eh

that will dignify leisure or guide in
oa
*

a

a

telligence? You can count them on
your fingers, Mr. Editor.

How many students are there on
The laws of supply and demand | whose shelves rest a score of books,
old or new, that show evidence of
constant and devoted reading? Not
many! ‘How many can write an intelligent letter? Ask the home-folks!

How many can converse with assurance on politics, or religion or birth

? :
~The noted educator, in our estimation, is quite right in his ore ioPave yet. to: heat, thei ‘at

ements. | ~ Too many people are in college today with that We are intelligent providing your
en idea— or shall e say delusion?—that merely because | yardstick is the principle that it takes
going to.college they will be worth a fortune when a di-| more ape ac to ask a ees ques‘shit tion than to answer it. ur interest
ided them ora degree conferred on them. | What really it world “aftaits. seldom (goes beyond
As Dr, Clark ‘k he bo h
ural ability. r, rk remarks, ‘‘the boy wit a hasty scanning of the daily press.
t to his destination in the business world quite reagrd-|So Mr. Editor, to call us students is a
education, " to which we would like toadd, “‘if he Say eeey on a once significant word.
no amount of talent will be of avail to any Nit-wits is more appropriate.

ermitted to lie latent within him or to oe ae Tready Aa
cl cof initiative. follow truth with all the enthusiasm

‘ nce in the educational world voice the]of the prehistoric dodo. And withal,
a “of the greatest criticisms of the college of | we ae the guts of a well stuffed

out too many B. A.’s and no geniuses. It is Matthew Arnold once said that th
| it our entire educational system. No basis of his rel religion was a peafound

‘oheitales Stata in the majority

Be Dr: Clarke wants to demonstrate here is that education
commodity. just as much as coal or apples and is therefore
the laws of economics.
€ rmine the remuneration of the individual in a profession
jus tas much ‘as they will determine the price of these articles.
Tt is almost selfevident that if you prepare one hundred men for
‘ninety Positions, you ‘will create pressure to decrease the financial

ae

~

erence for University men. The
epigram is unfair like most of the best
ms, But is the logic good today!

one looks around at some of

ae oftener rained the men who are to lead in the medical
jand in the. eae g and pel in

is? 8

Yel - Ty

 

|. : - e Outside rs
i Faisning College Students
| -Revolutionary ?

Weiter defends student body—Claims critical asser_ tions are in most cases unfounded

fa in the Almighty’s well known | be

   
 
 

‘DALHOUSIE GAZETTE |

TT

Fustili ed in

ek

 

other way from some of
magazines of a generation or so ago.

 
  
   
    
 
   
    
  
  
  
  

SH, B. SC, RALPHS, MORTON,B.A | 9 fn yg)
Bate oie Sse | os _ WRONG OPINIONS
, 4 ; ae every "day that we live,

college revolutionary spirit.

tion, money and time on foolish games,

rest are sitting on him!
of the night!"’

warfare.

And so on,
it “far, far into the night.”
to call them “‘dreadnoughts” because
they are afraid of a peril that does not
exist—the trouble with these people
is that they misunderstand the energy
and vivaciousness of youth. The reason that they have never seen it before
is that never before has the great army
of lively youngsters been united under
the common hanner of ‘College Spirit.”
Youth has always been in rebellion
against the wisdom and experience
of years but up to now this has caused
no serious alarm. Each young man
seemed to be striving alone against the
rigid yolk of tradititional convention
but now “‘the league of youth’’ has been
organized and is banded together by
world-wide sympathis. It has everywhere its own Press, its college papers,
by which its voice makes itself he: ird
clearly. Thus it seems to the upholders of traditions that youth has united
everywhere in a gigantic plot of rebellion.

FEAR NOT JUSTIFIED

a 4 R
They need have ‘no fear.

the

tionary colors will tomorrow infuse new
life and vigor into society.
man who is the ringleader in the socalled “college pranks’’ may become
the strong and just leader of the law
court; the co-ed who is forever “on
duty” for staying out too late, will
want her daughter to keep within her
leave. The students who today kick
hardest against the rules and regulations of the Committee on Studits
and Attendance will be the staunchest
the sternest upholders of university
traditions against the ever surging
tide of youth. The world and civilization will find as it has found hitherto,
that its college men will assume their
responsibility and that, far from overturning the edifice of society, they will
do their utmost to build it more firmly
and wisely, working into it the fresh
and healthy ideas that, at college,
were feared and suspected as impudent
and revolutionary.

A. M. P.

 

 

|} THE MOUTHPIECE |

 

the religious thought of tomorrow.
One cannot restrain a shudder. The
world is not and never will be ruled
by specialists. But if there is going
to be progress, the leaders of humanity
must be the men who have retained,
thru the monotony of work a day life,

“the power to see life steadily and to
see it whole.’ And this is the backbone of the conference,

In the four days at Sackville one
will meet personally a man whose
word carries more weight in India
today than any other person in the
British Empire. That is C. E. Andrews

Andrews preaches a new philosophy
—Majatma Gandhi's. To be able to
think with him on problems vexing the
world and the British Empireis no
small privilege.

It is said that the churches are failing ,
that there is too much of rece iving and
none of giving on the part of congre gations and that only group thinking
can swing back the pendulum. Dr,
Bruse Curry, considered the ablest
group thinker in America today will
present his subject at the Conference.
Our own H. L. Stewart hopes to attend.
Dr. Bronson will be there. All good
men and true. It is going to cost
you money. $18.50 will cover everything. If you decide te go tell someone who can tell you more about it.
Bob Baird, Douglas Gibbon, Jimmy
Muir, Isobel Matheson. Theré aught
to be at least 60 from the Little Colleg
by the Sea.

If ever opportunity came
it is at the postern now.

GEORGE WHITELEY,
ees

HOME BEST LABORATORY

knocking

Jr.

ee

Toronto—(IP)—Ten years of teaching has finally convinced Dr. E. A.
Bott, head of the department of psychology at the University of Toronto,
that the best pschological laboratory
in the world is his own fireside, and
that a faculty meeting is the secoad
st.

“The social contacts of the home
and street,” he says, “make experimental psychologists of us all, and a
reasonable knowledge of basic psychology is as essential to a safe life as a
reasonable Facies of ea 4

 
   
  

the hits in

Driven out of his first position, the
prophet tries to find other proofs of
“Look
at the way they squander their educa
in which one man tries to run while the
And they pull
tram-trolleys off the wires, and shout
songs, and even fire guns in the middle
Then he shakes his
head, and prepares to move out the
moment the students break into open

ep SPIRIT RESPONSIBLE
4

as a comic fav ourite has
The

trouble with such-—I was was going

Go splashing and breaking against the

Casting the spray in the air with a roar
Rolling in shoreward before they break,
In vast concaves.

| When birds fly south in broad array

College
students today will be the citizens of
world tomorrow and the spirit | To watch the squirrels,

which today seems to flame in revolu-] Race up and down the broad

The college } While chatting and chirping with gay

I like to watch the sultry sky
For leaden clouds.
Which

And fill

I think the stars are men who die

 

 

—_

 

~

Introducing —
BERNIE MILLER

ee Wo nder |
Of all the hours that I love best
I dearly say the night,
For then, the fireplace lively glows
With visions sad and bright.
There faces come, there faces go
Short,
E laughing

Medicine,

With many a tale between;
But this one face grows brighter still,
The fire no longer seen,

Of IV vear
curly-headed, always
talking, that’s Bernie. ane

New Waterford, Cape Breton heard
him first. Yes, his father is a doctor
and Bernie must have inherited ‘that
professional manner,’’ His B. A. came
trom St. F. X. Then Medicine Dalhousie.

Bernie is blessed with a remarkable
memory which serves him in wonderfw]
stead and often amazes his classmates.
One of the few who have ever obtained
a distinction in Pharmacology he was
the envy of the whole Class in ITI year.

Bernie is always active in formulating changes in class time-tables and his
efforts have been many times the
means of bringing in advantageous
changes to the workings of his yearly
time-tables.

Outside of class work Bernie has
always taken an active part in University affairs. Every question cf
controversy during his stay here has
found hinr firmly implanted on one sid

fair,
and

I see it in the very coals

That dimly start to burn,

A smiling girl, in age so young,

With love in every turn.

There's not as fair a girl that knows,
So much of nature's way,

As little Dela, who is formed

The lily of a day.

QO wind! Blow not harsh, lest her youth,
In your cruel way speed by,

But blow thou on, so peacefully,

That thy soft breeze m ay hie

Her tenders years back unto me

The wind, it has no heart.

Straight down the chimney, with a roar,
lt tears the coals apart.

Thus was this giri by nature wrought
And thus by nature claimed

All this, I see, as the flames rise high
In flickerings unnamed,

A little breath towards heaven goes, or other. Perhaps on the year book
A solema tit, (sound) his work is best seen, He has been
Some ashes to the cold ground falls business manager, for the past two

-Another coal! is lit.— issues and this year he is editor and
sO we are expecting another red letter
edition.

In athletics too, Bernie has done his
part as manager and as an active participant. One year in University Baskedball and two in Interfaculty. He is
this year’s popular choice as manager
of the Medical entry in Basketball.

He never misses any of the real big
dances or parties and the banquet
tables also are graced by his presence,

-His pet diversion is ‘‘co-education”’
particularly the ‘‘co-eds"’ themselves.
His favorite expression ‘'Time we're
starting a. little agitation about that.”
His Fraternity is Phi Rho Sigma, and
his future—

Well, meet Bernie (not Bennie)
judge for yourself.

es

The fire, it blazes just as bright;
The wind’s more a mother.

Yet, nature keeps this coal alive,
Exactly like the other.

I sse it as it grows in warmth

And brightens up for ms
In feature, form, in all my
In all, but name, Tis she

KURIOUS KARL.

Fantasy

When trees stand gaunt
leaves,

While pz alls of smoke float on the breese,

[ like to wander along the lake,

Dela—

 

and bare

of

 

and

shore

Suicides.—-Fearing that he would
not continue to be successful both in
ataletics and his studies, Fredcrick H.
Ladd, 17, captain of the Puneuard
(Mass.) High Scnool football team
recently shot and killed himself,

While shorter and shorter grows the
day
I like to wander through the woods
Twenty-Five killed.—Twenty-one
youngsters were injured at Oak Hill
School near Quitman, Ga., recently
when a snake was seen and the youngsters crowded onto an old porch of the
school building, which fell-under the
weight.

To be = Disinherited?— Lawrence
Cohen,. Harvard sophomore, has revealed that hih father so disapproves
of his socialistic political stand that he
is threatening to cut him off as heir
to a million dollar estate.

tree
trunks

chipmunks,
‘Bout varied nuts and different foods.
Now scarce as pearls.

But best of all when shadows fall
While to their mates the woodchucks
call

float along like dead men's

biers

WANTED IMMEDIATELY: A

‘Pied Piper'’ to find and finish the
hidden nest of baby mice on the second
deck. Call at Room 228 for clue.

 

my mind with sundry fears

And these their shrouds.

Pac Fe Me

 

TO ALL STUDENTS AT
DALHOUSIE UNIVERSITY

We Wish
A Very Merry
Christmas

WE CARRY A COM- CHRISTMAS GIFTS

PLETE LINE OF
FATHER

For BROTHER
SON
SHIRTS TIES SCARFS SUITS OVERCOATS TUXEDOS

in fact everything in Men’s Wear
Take your Gifts home with you

THE MEN’S WEAR SHOP

30 SPRING GARDEN ROAD
SOLE AGENTS FOR HOBBERLIN CLOTHES

Shennan

i
i
i
i
,
i
i
i
e
i

 

 

Dalhousie--Phinney’s

““A combination hard to beat’’
of Sport means a victory for

Phinneys Sporting Goods. Only

by feeling perfectly equipped can one
master that last fighting rally that turns
apparent defeat into victory

DALHOUSIE Victory in the world

 

— —and now for Basketball—Spalding’ 8
Official Ball, Score Book, Goals, Gym

Suits, Shoes, Knee Pads—well, youknow
Phinney’s quality.

Basket Batt

Visit us to-day

   
 

i
pesca tices ee

 

a ~

    

     
 
  
  

 

 
 
 
  
   
    
    
       

    
   
   
    
 

     

ec, thoughts. had been of| what we would like for Xmas. ‘As

|you know, we are a pretty snappy
looking bunch of girls, brimming over
with pep, and full of “it”. For this
reason we should get the best you have
to give, because “To him that hath,
shall be given” and we “hath.”

To proceed with the main issue of
this letter. I will give you an idea of
what we would particularly like.
First of all, forty of us want boxes of
 * ‘The number of questions a co-|paint, powder, and lip- stick, and
answers in class varies inversely as the] yanity cases containing “same.” We
- numbers of times she answers thejall want permanent waves, huge boxes
oe at Shirreff Hall.

First Co-ed (in dining hall)—''lt’s
hard to think that a poor horse should
_ be destroyed just to satisfy our appe
Pe Second Nit-Wit (Struggling hard) —
‘ vere iskind of tough,”

 
 
   
     
  
  
 
     
  
 
 
 
  

one
. Who now to sleep had dropped —
"Twas hard to realize O Bacads
a ly ‘dollar watch had stopped.

“Freshman to Professor (during in
telligence test) “A lie is an abomin
Seer in the sight of the Lord, but a
very present help in time of troub.e,

    
     
    
  
    
  
  

 

    
    
    
   

   
     

 

 

     
  
  
  

It is Xmas Eve and | am tramping
over the old familiar road once more.
It is twenty-five years since I left my

  
 

fa

 
 
  
    

   

 

  
   
  

‘Bube-e-h M-r--y may only be a}home, and this Xmas season I had the

vs Fi ‘ It is a cold night, and the howling
‘hell of a windy night.” |eome to the turn in the road, from

home. There it stands in its solitude,

tender hot house flower but she is|inexpressible longing to see the house
~ certainly well Potted. where I spent my happy boyhood.
wind drives the snow in gusts across
seer tears from leave to Hall) — my path. I walk slowly along and
ee! ain't it a
iss L— “How many times have] which ] can see, but dimly the now
Pte: d you not to say ain’t-" desolate house, that was once my
mms
Co-ed" Wou d you like to see where }on the summitt of a cliff overlooking
was vaccinated?” the sea.

 

   
  
  
  

ee Collegian (all enthused)—‘Sure.”| For a moment I stand and gaze
ke Co-ed (pointing to house—‘Right] it, as it lies under its blanket of snow.
there." Then I walk through the gate, and

 
 
 
 

  
 

up the long driveway to the house.
= It is void of life. The willow branches

brushing against the window panes

a Dee

  
 
 
 

and the wind whistling through the
trees, gives to the whole scene the
appearance of gloom and mystery.
The door-step is sunken, and the door
is slightly ajar. I creep in, and feel

     
  
    
    
  
   
 

Bacnst my way through the dark to the hall

Bee Gers ay window. I look out. The sea is in
Smokers Requisites of every | | angry black, and is beating mercilessly
description on the rocky soe are surf ee

high in the air, and I can hear it dashing

A complete Sone auainit the side of the cliff, seeming to
= boom out the‘past history of love, joy,

CIGARS, CIGARETTES and sorrow of this old house, I watch
; and TOBACCOS ed the scene, fascinated by the utter

  

pal Spring Garden Road

 

 

greyness of it all.

I dream of the Xmas now twenty
years past. I can see again the bright
lights, the holly-wreaths at the win
 
  

 

 
  
  
   
  
    
 
  
   
 
  
 
    
  
     
 

Pet... Pat.c.... Pst...

Wh ring behind your back ordinMerce you feel funny......but
_ not vin a Colwell Bros. Tux

You know what they are saying
d its the truth.

i Colwell Bros. Tux does have a
yagger all its own

  
  
   
   
  
  
 
    
  

Hall Girls Aiaiieing Santa with Some
of Their Many Needs

| Petition to Christmas donor discloses oo of many
| pre-requisites to true happiness

 

| Reminiscences .’. Ss

 

at|

  

Dalhousie

10 Years Ago

     

 

(Glancing over the files of the Gazette

 

baie and cold, of 1919).

seat ct ff Hall, of dy, f d if id
) never: told * Shirreff Ha candy, fur coats, and if you cou ‘
He'd lived together but a year November 27th, 1929.| possibly manage it, a roadster each. me aot ct ee cue
yO soon it seemed to be Dear Santa Claus: P The remaining fifty, who are not Mac.”
woke to look upon a face | I have been delegated by the girls| quite as gay as we are, would like s
at toiled so much for me of Shirreff Hall to write and tell you|books suitable for high-brows like) Capt. J. S. Roper, B. A. (‘10), M. A.

Archie MacMechan; woollen scarves
and stockings, new Bibles and hymnals,
and anything that would feel at home
with these things.

The most important thing is to give.
us “passes’”’ in ail’ our exams, and if
it is not asking too much, we would
like lots of handsome shieks, and in
vitations to every dance and show after
Xmas.

These are the modest requests of the es
noble women who are seeking higher Among Dalhousie’s Ten Commandeducation at Dalhousie University. etn

+4 iC 4 a :

ONE OF THEM. 1. Thou shalt not wear a sweater
in Archie’s English Classes, lest thou
get bawled out; neither shalt [thou
chew therein,

Thou shalt not use a key or crib
in Howard's Latin lest the Hand of the
Law descend with crushing force on

(11), LL. B. (18), M. C., is now secretary to the Minister of Overseas
Military Forces of Canada in London,
England. Roper sends his best regards
to the Law School and its Alumni,
and expects to be back on his old job
in Halifax early in November. “Johnny
went overseas with the N. S. Highland
Brigade and served in France with the
85th where he won his M. C.”

 

dows, the huge logs burning in the] thy head.
fire-places, the happy faces of the] ~ titling
family, and the mirth and ‘good-will Dec. 1, 1919 Headlines: Prince of
of it all, Wales Visits Dalhousie,
But, all is gone. The house is left
to die alone. I stay before the window (Editorial on OY 8, 1919): It is

until the cold forces me to leave, and
as I turn from the shady, mysterious
driveway, I catch the last glimpse of
the sad old house, and hear, for the
last time, the sound of the angry sea,

with pleasure that we note the presence
of Miss Shannon in the library. Miss
Shannon has just completed successfully a librarian’s course in Toronto and
after an extended leave is back again
at Dalhousie.

   
   
   
    
  
    
 
   
    
   
  
   
  
  
     
  
   
  
   
     
  
  
   
  
 
  

 

Prof. Nichols: We will now translate,
“The boys accompanied by their
companions.'’ What is the Latin word
for ‘‘companions?”’

Male Student: Puellae.

Medical Society

A meeting of the Dalhousie Medical

Society was held in the Health Centre, Prof. Nichols (kindly): Your logic
Tuesday evening, November the twenty is correct. but your Latin is wrong?
sixth. President Eddie Ross was in J.R.

the chair.

The main business of the evening
was a discussion as to whether the
Medical Dance should be held at the
Lord Nelson Hotel or in the Gym as
formerly. The majority decided in
favor of the Gymnasium. John Budd
was elected chairman of the Dance
Committee, The dance will be the
first dance after Christmas.

Don Campbell of the fourth year
and Ian MacDonald of the graduating
class, presented interesting case his
TRAFFIC TIED UP.

Pittsburgh, Pa.—(1P)—Traffic was
so jammed in this city after the Ohio
State-Pittsburgh football game that
traffic commissioners were forced to
turn out traffic lights and let policemen direct the flow of automobiles.

 

A Near Traged yi

 

 

tories. lock
In One Act

A COSTLY BLAZE. ‘ O et ) i

Los Angeles—(IP)—Fire resulting Time 4.85 P. M., Monday, Novem
from a defective flue, caused damage
estimated at $45,000 to the Sigma
Epsilon fraternity House at the University of Southern California recently.

ber 18ta.

Place Forrest Building.

Enter Cassius: ‘Hail "Pheaphothesquo vadis—”

Two other nearby fraternity houses Theolpholus ‘‘To visit Howardus,
were damaged by the blaze. in the land of Studi.”
Cassius Hark! What is nappening;

walls shake and tremble like the turf
when Archie play s golf,

 
   
  
    
  
  
  
    
   
   
  
    
  
 
  
  
  
 
   
 
    
 
 
  

Theopholus ‘Tis Walter MacKenzie
BUTTONS ON tiptoeing down the stairs,

Cassius Nay ‘tis too heavy even
RENTS MENDED for him: Marry! the very floor heaves

HOLES DARNED

with pent up fury
crushers,

Theopholus Behold! yon mob of students descending the stair led by a
man brandishing a scalpel in one hand
and a “‘leetle book.’’ in the other.
Verily he must be a higa priest.

Cassius Jockolus he is by name and
a follower of his has just whispered
hastily to me that before leaving his
den of horrors he insisted on covering
up all nis specimens.

Theopholus Marry! Forsooth! what
manner of man can he be— But Casslus, the upheaval grows apace let us
away ere we perish in this earthquake,
Cassius Vale!

Theopholus! Vale!
Curtain.

‘neath my daisy

That’s the service you get
free when you send YOUR
Laundry to Ungar’s.

VALETERIA

A new pressing Service:

tela Your Suit or Overcoat
Shaped and Pressed, for
50 Cents.

NECKTIES, cleaned 10c.

UNGAR’S

Barrington St., Halifax, N. S.

 

 

Sac. 428 Har. 107 As Usual

LAUNDERING DYEING The best in Ice Creams, Con
CLEANING PRESSING fectionery and Meals, as well
ow as courtesy, efficent service and

 

 

attractive surroundings are to
be had at

 
 

Our High Quality Standard
makes our Low Price
Doubly Attractive

SUITS, OVERCOATS
FULL DRESS and
TUXEDO, at one

$24

MADE TO MEASURE

Tip Top Tailors

THE STUDENT'S TAILORS
TRAMWAY BUILDING
| peer aneet - and Sackville Sts.

*
Z ee

The Green Lantern.

      
      
   
  
 
  
  
  

  
 

   
 
 
 

PIANOS, VILCT ROLAS,
Small Musical Instruments and Victor Records

We invite you to join our

Fiction Lending Library

2 Cents per day

McDonald Music Co.

93 Barrington St. Halifax.

  
 
   
  

 
  
  
  
 

  
  
 

    

 
 

  

i

 

 

~~: =

Page Three

      
 

  

a Ta

ve

STORIES
COMEDY
REVIEWS

 

 

INTERFACULTY SOFTBALL LEAGUE I: LEAGUE 1929,

Buew es ef) Ba ‘* * _B Commerce vs Engineers.
Wet i Stay et “A Arts vs Dentistry.

Togr hak eek a" ‘* “ B Freshmen vs Law.

Fri, Re -6ths ‘A Medicine vs Arts,

Sat. a eiee! 3  ae ‘_“  _B Theology vs Engineers.
Mon. Dec. 9th 5.15 P. M. Sec. A Kings vs Dentistry.
Tues. Pe ROR B Theology vs Law.

   

The greatest sales
ever attained by
any cigarette in
Canada, proves
their worth’

 

TURRET

CIGARETTES

   

, Laan
: ebcid: 2 Ba Save the valuable
Mild and Fragrant ("Ere abe jest eal HANDS”

€ = ot

 

 

 

YELLOW CAB | BIRKS —

LIMITED

SACK. 4444
Halifax Only Metered

Servi ce

Same Rates 24 Hours.

| Fraternity Pins and Class
Jewelry are smarter when
made by experienced workmen.
We have specialized in this
field for years.

Henry Birks & Sons

Two travel for same as one, Limited
More than two, 20 cents extra. yeas Eee ante
alifax

ee

 

Dear Mum:

I got some great ideas at
College. When I get home
we're going to have KLIM for
milk and hash for dinner every
night, I mean we must have our
meals at night now, and toast

only toasted on one side, and
all the rest of the high hat
things they have at the Hall.

Tell Santa’to bring me a new
dress from D'Eauville's. Home
soon after the Christmas
Anhilations.

Love,
Margie.

D Sauville’s

HALIFAX
AT 31 SPRING GARDEN ROAD.
AND i
19 PORTLAND STREET, DARTMOUTH |

All Dresses $12.00----All Coats $24.00 |

 

 
   
 
 

    
   
 
 
  

 

eee te A,

 

envol at once

“What has been called the religion
- the white race has taken the place

the Cinetiad religion. This white
ce religio had carried with ft imperial
economic exploitations
The spread of white racialism has infected the ee church, We have
a religion today wnich calls _ itself
christian but does not acknowledge the
ultimate sees inciple of pea

uality. wrong is slowly
Secosee Ch Christ's religion at its very
root,”

With these words Mr, C. F. Andrews
of the Delni Biotherhood of India
challenged the attention of a group of
students in Pittsburgh recently. An
ordained clergyman of the Church of
England, a graduate of Cambridge,
he went to India over twenty-hve
years ago to teach in the Cambridge
School there. Becoming convinced
that he should identify himself more
closely with the people he resigned
some years ago and has bein living
asan Indian. He is one of the teachers
in Tagocr’s school, 1s a personal friend
and confidante of Chandi, has travelled
extensively in India, and in those parts
of Africa and South America where
Indians are found in large numbers
and is today probably the best author
ity in the world to tell students,’’
What is tugging at the heart of India?
At the present time he is spending a
couple of years in the English-speaking
countries at the request ot the people ot
India to explain their position. He will
be one of the leaders at the Student
Conference which is to he held at
Sackville, Dec. 30 to Jan. 3rd.

For a number of years a Conference
has been held in June at Deep Brook
and Dalhousie has always had some
students registered there. But in order
to bring the privileges of such gather
ings within the reach of a larger number of under-graduates the 5. C. M,
and S. VY. M. are uniting to hold this
assembly of students and leaders
during the Christmas vacation, In
addition to Mr. Andrews, there will be
several other speakers with an. international reputation. Prof. Bruce Curry
of Union Theological Seminary, New
York, author of “Jesus and His Cause,
and other study books for group use,
will lead the morning discussion period.
He is regarded as the most expert
leader of large group discussions in
America, and has had long experience
in his chosen field. Prof. W. J. Rose,
Professor of Sociology at Dartmouth
University was at Deep Brook last
summer and later at Elgin House.
Having spent four years interned in
Poland during the war and then having
agencies during the period of reconstruction, he is uniquely qualified to
explain the situation in the part of
Europe most affected by the Peace
Treaty. Mrs. Induk Kim of Korea‘
is the President of a Women’s College
in Seoul. She came to America to
attend the Detroit Convention of the
Student Volunteer Movement two
years ago. Since then she was a
delegate to the Jerusalem Council and
is now acting as a travelling Secretary
for the S. V. M, She speaks simple,
idiomatic English, has a very attractive
ee is a devout Christian and
as a message.

Enrolment blanks and all information
about this Maritime Conference are
in the hands of the officers of the
It is said that Dalhousie
will be limited to fifty delegates and
all those interested are invited to
communicate with the leaders of the
study groups in the colleges or with the
members of the S. C. A. cabinet.

 

 

Xmas. Cards

Order your Xmas. Cards
from the

ROSS PRINT LIM ITED

Large assortment
Lowest prices

|THE ROSS PRINT

95 Argyle Street
Halifax - - - N.S.

Get Your
Hair Cut

Where you are assured of
expert and experienced service. In other words go to

Shield’s Barber Shops

(Two Shops)

41 Sackville St. and Roy Bidg.

 

»|sense of hearing.

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

re: - CONFERENCE IS ARRANGED 
 

on hand for

Mgr Sutherland | Big Jim || Good Material

Prepares for
Hockey Season

With the iat Auery flurry of SHOW, Dalhousians interested in hockey, have
realized that the season for the
ame” is but a week or so away.

anager Harvie Sutherland has already been making preparations for
Dal's initial work-out and there is
little doubt but that the boys will
have an opportunity to show their’
wares at the Forum between the first
and seventh of December. From casual observations it appears that Dal
should this year have a first class team
as there seems to be plenty of Al
material available. This year “The
Tigers” will not be entered in any
league, but will confine their efforts
to producing an exhibition team which
will be able to match wits and brawn
with the best college teams in the
Maritimes. With such men as Hughey
Martin, Kenzie McNeil, and five of
last years team available, prospect
for a real team are good. Rumours
of a long trip have been prevalents
for some time but nothing definite
at the present time can be ascertained
Suffice .it to say that Dal expects as

good a hockey team this year as she}tion to the judges,

, =. eee it
; "
,
1 dé \ > :
z ; as

is supposed to have had “‘in the old

days.”

 

Juniors Win

Continued from page 1

actors and orchestras, and anyway
our local orchestras are not as good as
those in the talking pictures. In them
Grand Opera finds perfection. Con
versation adds color to actions and
comes quite naturally. This overcomes
the break in continuity entailed in the
silent pictures. More dramaticsm is
possible and the educational advantages
are wider.

Mr. MeCarthy and Mr. -MacDonald
then engaged in rebuttal and the floor
was opened to the audience to speak.

Mr. Ganesh Sawh, spoke in favor
of the talking pictures particularly ,
because they tended to promote international peace and understanding,
They tend to encourage an international language.

Mr. Louis Dubinsky showed the
importance of movies in education,
Formerly moving pictures only applied
to sense of sight but pow they apply to
The talkies also
eliminated official explainers.

Mr. Fred Jennings discussed moving
pictures generally as a sign of advance
and remakred that people kept wanting
more, so the talkies were produced.

Mr. Howse then asked Professor
Mercer if he would favor Sodales with
a few remarks. Professor Mercer said
that he was deeply interested in the
subject and that American producers
boasted that they would make English

 

 

 

If You Want to See Well
SEE WALLACE

Optometrist and Optician
Y. M. C. A. Bibg. Halifax, N.5.

 

The
Halifax Chronicle

AND

The
Halifax Daily Star

The
fastest growing
newspapers ip

Nova Scotia

 

 

eee ee ae

NOW!

is the time to buy
your Shoes and
Over-Shoes

FOR WINTER WEAR

You will find the smartest
styles and the best qualities

SHANES
SHOE SHOP

284 Spring Garden Rd.

“The nearest Shoe Shop
_ to the College’”’

rh te

:
>

   
   
 

tS

Benes

“big

 

Jim McLeod, who will play centre
or guard for Dal. Basketball team

 

American
and

the international language
talkies were shown in Germany
the Germans liked them.

He commented on the honor of being
a judge in the Bennett Trophy debates
and how much he had enjoyed it.
Professor Mercer stated in closing that
the present day kind of debates are
much better than formerly, when
Sodales had no speakers from the floor,

Mr. Howse expressed his appreciaDean Smith, Di
Mercer,
that

and Professor
acting in

George Wilson,
for their kindness in
capacity for the Bennett Trophy debate

It was announced that Dalhousie’s
debate with the U niversity of New
Brunswick will be held in Fredericton,
and the trials for the team will he held

after Xmas, The subject will be
“Resolved that it is in the interst of
society that the truths of history be

sometimes suppressed.’

Books for the winners of last year's
Sodales meetings
Mr. Louis McKenna
Margeson.

Mr. Howse then rendered the decision of the judges which was unanimous for the affirmative

were presented to
and Miss Doris

and thereby

giving victory to the Junior Clas

The Shield is to be hung in the brary!
Book prizes were presented to the
winning team and so ended the last

Sodales debate before Xmas

 

    
 

FROM THE

WINNERS FROM Tr
For 60 years the REACH Trade
Mark on Sporting Goods has been
a mark of perfection. No matter
what your favorite sport may be
we can supply you with equ uipment
that will help you play the game
with the best that’s in you.

CRAGG BROS. CO.,

Limited
Hardware and Sporting Goods

HALIFAX, N. S.

 
           
   
   
   
      
 

 

ss

styles.

esas enaa sien aire eC aC

Se

boxed neckwear.
and colors.

throughout EACH 7§-«.

Other ties from 25c. to $2.50

 

Basketball

Members of the is tball Sq uad
were sorry to hear that Archie McDonald had resigned as basketabll manager
for the season 29-30, for all were looking

forward to a big season under ‘‘Archie’s’
guidance.
However, the Management Com
mittee of the D. A. A. C, has succeeded
in persuading no less a man than
Gordon MacOdrum to look after the
interests of the basketball team this
year and under his enthusiastic and
capable management Dalhousie wil!
undoubtedly have a basketball team
of which she may well be oa It
will be remembered that Gordon
MacOdrum has been one of the ‘mainstays’ in this line of sport at Dal in
years past and it was in no small way
due to his efforts last year that ‘The
Tigers” found themselves playing off
with the ‘Y” team for the city championship.

“Basketball enthusiasm” has been
at a high pitch for the last month and
a great number of boys have been
availing themselves of the splendid
opportunity of getting rounded into
shape before the season officially opens
by short work-outs in the gym.

Manager MacOdrum stated that
regular Basketball practises would}
begin this week and the heartycooperation of all those interested in
this line of sport is desired.

The team this year has been promised novel uniforms and home games!

Among those turning out to date
are:

G. MacOdrum, D. McRae,

McCle]

lan, Jim. Macleod, H. Davidson, |
fairstein, Geol. MacLleod, A. Nickerson, |
lan Fraser, Anderson, MclIsaac and

MacInnis
Cae ae ee ee

The
Garrick

wishes
you

A Merry

Christmas
and a

Happy
New Year

ote |

 

Gifts for Men

ORPHEUS

December 8rd, 1929

THEATRE.

 

 

ALL THIS WEEK
ROLAND WEST

Presents his Production

““ALIBI’”’

An all dialogue screen thrilled

An Underworld Film
SILENT NEWS COMEDY

  

   

MON. TUES. WED.
NEXT WEEK

“The Love Doctor”

with
Richard Dix and June Collier
An all Talking

Action! Love! Laughs!
Sound News Comedy

      
     
   
       
       

 

WASH DAY ?

Students

and want it done neatly —

**For Particular People ’’

The next time you want your
Laundry finished in a hurry
-Call the

HOME LAUNDRY

70 Bilby St.
Phone L.233I

Dry Cleaning, Sponging, Pressing

 

    
  
   
  
    
 

CASINO

WEEK OF DEC. 2nd
_Mon=Tuee-Wed

LUCKY STAR

with
JANET GAYNOR
CHARLES FARRELL
Stars of ‘‘ 7th Heaven ’”’

_Thure.= Fri-Sat
GEORGE BANCROFT
with
ESTHER RALSTON

in

“THE MIGHTY”

 

——_—

 

 

 

Lord Nelson
Hotel |

The Social Center

your Saturday Evening
Dance, or at any other time
for your Bridge parties,
Dinners, Dances, Etc. : ;

AFTERNOON TEA,

4.30 to 5.30

The Ideal Atmosphere for
Orchestra
!

SUNDAY CONCERT

9 to 10 p. m.

 

‘MACLEOD, BALCOM

LIMITED

34 Morris Street
174 Spring Garden Rd
203 Young Street
Cor. Quinpool Road
and Oxford Street
and Bedford

 

 

Silk Scarves

These scarves are shown in reefer and square

Many pleasing patterns a

A Gift a man will find useful!

$1.00 to $6.50

EACH

 

Fancy Boxed Ties

Shop now and get the best selection from this
Many different patterns

’ Full length and

Eatonia Sweaters

An excellent sweater for cold weather.
fine worsted yarns in shades of heather

Can be worn under coat

without discomfort. Sizes 36 to 44

and fawn.

EACH

 

nd colors.

lined

EACH $3.85

 

Smart New Shirts

The materials are broadcloth, woven madras

and fine English prints.

2 soft collars or 1 soft and 1 stiff.
Colors and patterns of many kinds

Sizes 14 to 17.

$1.25 to $3.50

  
  

 

 

 

 

Greeting Cards
Programmes
Invitations
Letter Heads

Envelopes, etc.
From

NOVA PRINT, LTD

227-229 HOLLIS STREET

are delivered

WHEN PROMISED

 

Of

Each shirt has

Eaton’s
Main Floor

 
