ee ee , ae ren a paaeg ae
$$ a

e ’ ey — ee
: / ’ v2 ;

 

      
   

} a is
i e | |
: ~ + :
> he ay
MP aCapseraniicyoys
ae iar Si, ae.

   

 
 

me oO es
y Pp.

=a
J as 7

    
 
    

Ihouwsi:

Undergraduate Publicatio

      

THE OLDEST
COLLEGE PAPER
IN AMERICA

     
  

 

HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA, NOVEMBER 14ru, 1929. No.7

LHOUSIE ‘WHITEWASHES’ N. B. TEAMS

- HALF PINT REVUE” GOES OVER BIG -2¢/housie

Defeats St.
Local Talent Presents ‘ Big Hit ’’ to Glee Club Audience John Trojans

Locals Score Ten Points
Producers and Cast of Orginal Presentation Cover in Opening Stanza
Themselves with Glory

 

 
    
  
  
  
   
  
   
     
 
 
   
  
  
   
    
  

Hs

 

‘redericton
Squad Wilts
a — Bef ore Locals Service
lacNei is Largely
Attended
Sorte rt The Dalhousie Glee and Dramatic Society wrote a new and remarkable

Impressive Ceremon y | chapter in its history on Wednesday night. The fact that about one third of
. the huge audience had to stand in no way marred the enthusiasm with which it
Marks Memorial Exer-— received “The Half-Pint Revue.’ This “Hip-Pocket Musical Show” was a
cises in Gymnasium 100% singing, talking production, but best of all, it was 100% Dalhousian;
in it the talents of Studley and Forrest Hall united to produce a show written
and presented by Dalhousians for en spirit of a Pens bse
, Sah tae gS ai oS ‘as again | faised up by the Opening Chorus, in which the whole cast made its debut, anc
te ene or cies Ginktaive cd invited the audience to join in a cheer for D-A-L Dal_, setting a peppy pace and
appropriate ceremony, when Dalhou-| 8'Vg a swing to the Revue,
slans set apart a few moments of their
Thanksgiving Holiday in solemn and] The next feature presented a very
devoted commemoration of the Valiant] familiar, but always distressing dil
a

i”

i i

Vg

 

 

Freshmen

Hold Trial
Debates

 
  
  
  
  
  
 
   
  

See Kenzie MacNeil Star of
Gold and Black during

N. B. Invasion

 

By Louis MacKenna.

Saint John, Nov. 9—Brilliant football, when openings presented themselves, allowed the Dalhousie Tigers to
open their New Brunswick invasion
with a ten to nothing victory over the
Trojans of this city this afternoon.
[wo tries both of which were converted by the educated toe of Ralph Grant
accounted for the points. Pudgy Kenzie McNeil was credited with the first
try, while Art Sutherland placed the
ball over the magic line for the second
try. Both were made in the first half

é ee: se By Louis McKenna.

a Fredericton, Noy. 11th
The Tigers brought their New
fi ‘Brunswick invasion to a_ successful
finish by turning back the Fredericton City squad in an interesting encounter at the New Brunswick Capital

on Thanksgiving Day. The Gold and
Black outht scored six points on a
kick after the ball had been heeled and
a try, which was not converted. The
team scored two more tries which were

Turnout of Girls is Feature of Contest

 
 
  

 

Trials for the class debating team
were held by the freshmen on Tuesday last. They set an example to the
rest of the college by having girls
turn out to contest for a place. The

nified President of the University,
when he admitted to the degree of

   
   
 

_ than they did against the Saint John
a _ Trojans el they held the powerful
| ‘home team well in check, At no time
| ._ did the losers seriously threaten to
| _ score on the Tigers, although play was
ne time in their territory. Strong

nd dribbling soon carried the
Fe danger at these times, rehe possibility that one of the
‘icton outfit might break through.

ers hada |

, = “ss

   

 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 

   

ad ——. = a =
The Tiger
ec

  

 

ns

 

Dal should be able to take
sure of Caledonia in the quest

___ two teams meet, and as this is written,
it seems, quite probable that they will.
The home fitteen kicked off, facing
the sun, but with neither team bothere
- by a wind. It was a day almost more
- suited to baseball than rugby. The
‘Tigers kept the play near centre after
the kickoff. Fredericton kicked, and
a Dal forward heeled it, but the referee
Rev. Thomas Parked failed to see this.
_ From the resultant scrummage, however, he managed to see the Tiger
front liners lift their feet before the
ball was in the scrum, and a free kick
was called in favor of the home team,
who used it to good advantage and
_ carried the ball well into Dal territory.
t Kicks to touch by Kenzie McNeil and

  

ll
we

other members of the team joining in at
| ___ times advanced the ball slowly back to
I. centre field, Each punt gained a few
_-yards, but this was offset when Fred___ ericton was awarded another free kick
' for some unknown reason. After four
teen minutes of play, the Tigers broke

Eni

i. ©
| away for a run from centre, which
_ ended when Baird crossed the line in
| ~~‘ the corner. He was tackled as he
_ crossed the line, but rolled across.
‘The ref for some reason known only to
| himself ruled it a safety. In ‘the
____-Writer’s opinion it was a clean try, and
— “ why it was not counted will remain a
_ » mystery to all except the arbitrator,
=a _and it is doubtful if he could explain it

    
 
 
  
   
  
 
   
   
 
  
   
 
 
   
 
 
 
   
   
   
  
   
   
     
  
  
    
     
  

as ei From the drop out the ball went into
+ _—s touch, and a scrummage was called on
' the Fredericton 25 yard line. The
-  ‘igers threatened to score several
times, but could not get across. Fred__ericton carried the ball to centre field,
from where a long punt was let loose,
and this rolled over the Dal line where
Archie MacDonald fell on it to gain a
_ drop out.
___Dal took advantage of this to once
- more carry the attack to their opponents. The Dal forwards were work‘ing well in the scrum, and heeled the
ball out almost every time. They
took the ball into scoring position, and
Don MacRae went over, but was
ed back for picking the ball up
er it had been grounded, and Fredton was given a free kick on their
line. A gain of about five yards

al continued to keep the ball in
dericton territory, with an odd sally
ro the other end of the field. About
minute before the half ended, the
ers were rere = free kick, and
ough a 45 yard kick was necessary
a a Ralph Grant attempted
sjlacement kick, and it did not go

astray. Shortly after the whistle
ew, with Dal on their opponent's

er kicking off to start the final

n, the Tigers followed up fast,

for the first five minutes gave their
| Please turn to page 6

ie

 
     

    
   
 
  
    

| filled witl

     
     
 
 
   

 
 
 
   
  

‘Maritime honors, should these}

 

cadence of the readers voices. Outsid
the world was flashing with the golden
radiance and sapphire sky of an indian
Summer's day, as if Mother Earth
was loath to tall into her long winter
sleep until she had paid tribute to her

glorious, fallen sons. Almost every
one realized what the ceremony meant,
nevertheless a few were found who
: When life is so

ic
Chi. © are 2 }
a Ww: a e oF
fs “+

said, in their hearts

     

losses long past- Time has poured
his potent balm into the wounds, we

| have learned to carry on without those

who are gone; why must we open an
probe anew old scars, and endeavour
to bring into daily life those whose
work for society is finished—’’ Thus
argue the thoughtless people, those
who are too young to have known, and
those who have ailowed themselves to
forget, what the war meant. They
argue that because we enjoy life,
because we can feel the richness, the
vitality, the warm radiance of the
sun, because we can delight in the
limpid glow of the moon, the palegleaming stars, the wonder of growing
things, because we know security and
comtort enough, we should forget those
who died that we might be able to
prosper in the midst ot our blessings.
Did not they exult in life, rejoicing in
the bright sunshine, amid smiling
fields and woods- Horrible as were
the days of wet, ceaseless rain, that
thickened the soil to disgusting ooze
caking all over their tired bodies,
terrible as was the damp, raw cold, it
must have been hardest to die on a
day of fair, clean sunshine, when brav
little birds tried to cheer them from the
shattered tree-tops, when the rivers
flowed merrily, sparkling and dancing,
babbling of hope, of love, of happiness.
Yes, it was hard to throw away a life
vibrating with hope, filled with promise
of a sunny future.

Supposing the flower of our youth
had not given their lives for our country
supposing they had refused to make the
sacrifice, suppose they conveniently
forgot their duty and thir honour, as
some of us wish to forget them! In
that case, we would not now be at
college, We would be slaving under
a foreign yoke; we would be deprived
of education; our Professors would be
compelled to perform menial labour,
or starve, while we would be mechanics
and miners. Our pretty, carefree coeds would be the prey of foreign
brutality. The picture need *not be
painted further. The point has been
made, and if people will not be moved
to gratitude by the remembrance of
heroic self-sacrifice, at least the thought
of what that sacrifice meant to them
will stir up admiration and a desire for
loyalty.

Commemoration Day is, therefore,
not a re-opening of old wounds, but a
tribute to the memory of heroic service,
a re-kindling of the flame of courage
and loyal devotion, a reminder that
we must so guide our lives as to make
another such sacrifice never necessary.
But if the day does come again when our
country needs us, we shall remember
our glorious dead, we shall be weighed
in the eternal balance, and we shall not
be found wanting.

A.M. P.

-___

Frosh—I went to bed with the
chickens when [I was home.
She—Did they mind?

   

kindly solved for him by Murray Macneill. Miss Rosier, known to Glee
Club as a member of the dancing chorus
of “Carrie Comes to College,”’ made a
most attractive (and maddening) switch
board operator, while Miss Ruth
Macaulay played opposite Morton, as
the duo put over a sheaf of lively “‘wisecracks.""” A special feature of the
Revue was its freedom from weak

   
    

   
  

 
  

Lh bat

> rio, artistically a ecompany Don Murray, made us feel first

soulful, then blue, with two songs that

were particularly appropriate to Dalhousians. Miss Jean Morton, Miss
Marg. Mackie and Mr. Allen, the
personnel of the Trio, constituted an
all-star cast.

Undoubtedly the “Piece de Resistance’ (as Dr. MacMechan would say)
of the evening was the Company’s
idea of the Talkies. One might have
been up at the “Community,” so
realistic was this feature, presenting
both the beauties and evils of talking
pictures. Graham Allen announced
in the. best “‘fade-out-and-come-instrong’ style of rhetoric, and then a
few scenes were given, the Advance
showing of “Dreaded . Drummond,
Detective.”” Every detail was accurate
ly executed, from the brusque, official
at Headquarters, the discovery of the
murdered man, to the examination of
the shrieking heroine, protesting her
innocence.

Ralph Morton has played a few
roles in his life, but it must be admitted
that he surpassed himself as the dig
  
 

followed another in| treat tcl
‘ling success ea “Cheb ienetally weird B

was, however, short-lived, for he reappeared as a simple undergraduate,
and gave a new version of our old
friend the s-t-t-uttering collegian. Moron and Mackie next appeared, having
driven up in a buggy from Tatamagouche to dear Dalhousie. Their song,
“Freshmen,. Freshmen,” went over in
best Broadway fashion, voices and all,

Johnny Buddund His Stage Band
treated the audience to several deWw ues Numbers, executed in the prevailing mode that makes
us wonder ‘‘What Next?” in the musical
side of modern progress. Dalhousie’s
Syncopants certainly are strong for
rhythm, They formed a harmonious
background for the presentation of
“Dalhousie Dream Girl,” sung most
pleasingly by Mr. Jack Davies. This
song, a waltz composed by the writers
of the show, hamely, by Don Murray,
musician, and Ralph Morton and
Graham Allen, dramatists, went over
well, and certainly has not been heard
for the last time at Dalhousie, The
Finale was the Cheer Song of the
whole cast, which brought to a close
one of the most successful and original
programmes that has ever been presented. Only one crticism can be
fairly made, and that is, that at times
it was difficult to hear the performers’
i so that several

voices, brilliant remarks were lost. Everyone realizes,
however, that the acoustics of the

Gymnasium leave much to be desired,
and all congratulations are offered, as
Shakespeare has said,“‘Hats Off,” to
the producers, actors, and authors of
the ‘‘Half-Pint Revue.”’

 

Armistice Day
; NOVEMBER 11, 1929.

The fields of France and Flanders now are bare,
The beat of guns no longer meets the ear

Upon the road to Ypres, or on the Somme;
But still we see the marks of what was done.

Here is a crumbling pile of stone,
Where once a white church stood,
Here is a German long-range gun,

Hiding in Belleau Wood.

What are these jurrows in the ground?
"Twas here they stood and fell,

"Twas here they poured their life-blood out,
And suffered worse than heli.

And shall we then forget these men

Who gave us all we have?

Our bread our clothes, our very lives,
For us they fought and fell.

So let us then this day bow down
Our heads in solemn thought,
Because we know that but for them,
We would be dust and rot.

FF. Cy "33.

 

DALHOUSIANS

Don’t Forget the Dal-Wanderers
Game on Saturday at Studley

bam bach OUT

   
 
   

than the press.

(2) Resolyed that a voter can be
better serve his country by consistently
supporting one party than by being
an independent voter, -The speakers
were Marion West, Dorothy Redmond,
Victor Oland, Willard Picketts, Richard
Squires, Elias Andrews and Michael
Greenberg. All of them were excellent
and the judges found it most difficult
to reach a decision. Dorothy Redmond and Michael Greenberg were
chosen as the class representat ves.
Ernie Howse urged all the contestants
to turn out for the intercollegiate
trials as on their showing they would
surely make places. The judges were
Tom MacDonald, Cyril Greene and
Bill Jost.

Newman Club
Holds Meeting

On Sunday, Nov. 3rd.,.a very interesting meeting of the Newman Club
was held at the Knights of Columbus
Hall, on Hollis St. The meeting was
of special importance, due to the
presence of His Grace Archbishop
O'Donnell, the new Co-adjutor Bishop
of Halifax. His Grace was ably introduced by the President, Mr. Leonard
Farmer, and gave a very inspiring
address on John Henry, Cradinal
Newman, which was greatly appreciated by the large number of members
present. A motion was made by Mr.
Rk. A. Donahoe, that a vote of thanks
be tendered to His Grace,

After meeting each member personally, His Grace left the Hall. .A short
business meeting was then held at
which it was decided to hold a dance
on Nov. 15, circumstances permitting.
A drive for new members will be put
on in the meantime,

 

Joint Class
Party Held

Classes 31 and 82 staged the first
Class Party of the year on Friday,
November Ist., at the Club House of
the Royal Yacht Squadron. About
ninety made use of the two dance
floors, the music being supplied by the
Cochrane Orchestra. Mrs. Murray
MacMeill was chaperone for the evening,

Good music, good floors, good refreshments and handy corners for those
“sitting out,” what more need be said
to prove that everyone enjoyed themselves and that all were sorry when the
time came for the last waltz,

Amont those present were:—M.
Currie, E. Fulton, M. McCoubrey, E.
Allen, M, Lromand, B. Barnhill, M.
Carroll, D. Margeson, L. McDonald,
J. Gardener, E. Elliot, F. Brewster
W. Kinnear, H. McCoy, G. Farquhson,
H. Bishop, J. Sweeney, F. Hewatt,
C, Sanford, I. Wood, D. Horn, E.
Brown, Mary Hall, I. Conway, C.
Soulis. Messrs. K. Mahen, C. Lorway
J. Conrad, W. Mecelilreith, M. Archibald, A. Pattillo, R. Harris, R. Donahoe
J. H. Conrad, F. MacDonald, C. Clarke
B. Jost, J. Garden, J. Cox, W. Dauphinee, R. Corkum, O. Hewatt, A. Nickerson, W. Mclsaac, F. Chandler, G,
Silver, H. McIntosh, R. McCarthy,
D. McLellan, R. Stewart, G. Graham,
S. Shatford, P, Hawkins, J, Kirsh,

< who fell in the Great War. Within] emma of college life, the difficulties of R. 5. V. P., honoris causa, his colleague, | resolutions debated were (1) Resolved | and were the rewards for some ‘nice

ee disallowed. Bhi tt the building still and silent homage] telephoning to  Shirreff Hall. Mr., Graham, who replied in a “few, well- that the platform is a. more powerful backfield _work, The game was a

fe oes The boys played a better bran a. | was broken only by the heart-feit} Morton, as the perplexed freshman, | chosen words. Mr, Morton’s dignity agent for moulding public opinion|Ccleanly fought one. Although the
__ football against the Fredericton team singing of hymns and the measured] then found that his troubles had been

slippery field tended to make the game
rather loose at times. For the most
part, however, the teams played open
football nearly all the tackles were
made low and clean and allowed the
players to get “up and over” without
unnecessary loss of time. The day
was an almost ideal one for footbail
a bright sun overhead was counteracted by a cool wind, which made the
spectators shiver but which was probably appreciated by the players.

The Trojans kicked off with the wind
at their packs for several minutes
play remained between the two twentyfive yard lines, with the Trojans having
a litue the better of the play, but never
getting into scoring position. The
Wal torward pck were working well
and the ball was coming cleanly from
the scrummages, but the Trojans,
more noted tor their defensive than
their offensive play were stopping the
ligers with clean tackles. On the few
Occasions that the home aggregation
of gridsters did gain possession of the
ball, however, the Gold and Black were
not idle and the ball carrier was quickly
brought to earth with a thump. After
about ten minutes of play, the Studley
outht, by a dribble which ended when
the Trojans attempted return kick
was blocked, found themselves on their
opponents fifteen yard line. Play was
soon carried back to centre, where a
scrum was called. Harold Davidson
was hurt and this necessitated a shift
in the lineup.

George McLeod moved up from
fullback to the three quarter line, replacing Art Sutherland, who replaced
Doug at Picking hald, and the latter,
despite the fact that he was barely
able to walk, continued at fullback.
He had been kicked on the hip during
play. At centre field, Don Thompson
gained possession of the oval and
started tor the Trojan line, He got
into difficulties and passed to McLeod,
who in turn sent the pigskin to McNeil,
who crossed the chalk mark in the
corner and continued his run until he
had placed the ball directly behind the
uprights. Grant made an easy convert
Dal continuted to press the play, and
Oyler followed up fast on a kick to
take it onside, but Big Alden Clark,
who used to cavort around the Acadia
field, was there too, and Potter was
unable to move him. The back division engaged in a pretty passing bout
that almost added more to the Dal
score. The Tigers were awarded a free
kick from close in and Grant tried a
placement ‘kick on the twenty-five
yard line, but the angle was difficult
and he missed, the bat rolling over the

dead line. The resuitant drop out
found touch and a scrum was called
on the twenty-five yard line, Trojans

began an advance and had a chance to
score on a free kick but missed,

Play was carried right back to the
other end of the field, After 27
minutes of play Kenzie gathered the
ball up and raced 40 yards, passed to
Art Sutherland who crossed the line
in the corner and circled to place the
ball behind the posts. The scoring
for the day ended when Grant converted. The second half started with
the Dal captain back at fullback and
Harvey Sutherland on the three quarter line, with Davidson on the sidelines. Trojans repeated their work
of the opening session and they had the
better of the play for a short time.
Three successive kicks brought the
Tigers once more into good territory
and McNeil missed a field goal by
inches after he had received the bail
from a scrimmage. Trojans carried

Continued on pag? 6

 
   
  
   
 
  
  
     
  
 
  
  
   
     
        
       
 

- Managing Editor.
ic _ RALPH S. MORTON, B. A.
Sac. 8851. ; Phone Sac. 804.
pee ees Hates
gees 5 ARTHUR PAFIELO ~~
2 KEN. SMITH
_ DORIS MARGESON
ort Sport Editor.
P. A. OYLER.

Associate Editors.
_—s MADELEINE PAGE, B. A.

Asst. Business Manager.
J. R. DONAHUE.
Phone Sac, 4086J.

Subscription Rate $1.50 ear.
: Gaatie Phone Sack. 4866.

ae ne 
—-——

 

4

___ SUBSIDIZED ATHLETICS

-__-‘Whatever the results of the Carnegie Foundation investigation
ae ig Whatever athletic conditions so far as football is concerned
‘one immediate result of the report and the comment upon it has
on the revelation that North American educators, whose lives

e been dedicated, supposedly, to the business of building
philosophies based on fundamental or radical facts, are, unwilling
to apply the same thesis to a discussion of college athletics.
Assuming that the purpose of college is honesty, intellectual
well as moral, we find ouiselves less able to say with finality
_ that subsidizing of athletes by college is either all right or all wrong.
- Tf honesty is to be the basis of our higher education, to be sure, we
must assume that effort to conceal subsidation, when it is practiced,

        
 
   
    
 
      

he The right or wrong of the subsidizing itself, however, cannot
be determined by the fitting together or high-sounding phrases

, sut the purity of amateurism, the evils of big time football, or
the necessity for such form of athletic competition between colleges.
yay © come to some conclusion on the subject we must go further and
ates a scide first of all what is the end to be accomplished by higher
ae ae

“a, eS
a aqUuUcatIon. |
i

: Py *,
gan n @..
a)
ip ~ ‘

      
 
  
 
   
 

-_-We find two distinct schools of thought with which we must
 eontend here. One school, roughly represented by the small
= ated 2 college with very high scholastic requirements for admission,
ie olds that the purpose of education is to develop an intellectual

 
        
 
 
 
    
  
  
  
 
 
     
     
   
 

I |
al _ This class of colleges, as a rule, do not find it necessary

dents, nor do they care for mere size in student body.
sort of college are now engaged in efforts to reduce

  

us § rt * . : pie oo. Soe

ves in size, by greatly raising the standards for admission.
chool of thought, represented in part by the great
tell us that the purpose of ‘higher education is

¢ level of all intelligence, to give every boy and girl
nity to become a college graduate, regardless of. his
telligence, or his fitness for highereducation. =

    

  
 
    
   
 
  
 
   
    
   
   

7

f
le
|
; * eT,
oe
‘
~

4 a

pet eeeTy te ines, one must remember, are not so finely drawn as we
have assumed for the purpose of our argument. Many state institutions are raising their entrance requirements, while many private
‘on mle s are seeking size rather than quality.
___- However, investigating the two schools of thought, we find the
a. _ question of subsidized athletics much more complicated than we had
Bie
a: Bee ahccsctically at least, the former school should be opposed to
"intensive intercollegiate athletics of any sort, and should apply
themselves merely to the development of intra-murel sports wherein every college student may have the opportunity to supplement
his development of the brain with development of a healthy body.
A name as a football school is not needed by such a school, nor is it
i, Ex a a9 e. . ble. 2 .
. ae P On the other hand, where size rather than quality is to be
fo desired, intercollegiate activities are necessary, and subsidizing of

      
   
  
     
  
  
 
 
 
  
    
    
  
     
    

“a z

nll
- s

athletes is quite clearly advisable, for such a school needs adveroe i. brenheen aehwe the yout who otherwise would not be tempted to
attend college. Big time football is as much a part of the businessv
pe of that institution as its courses of study. Football arouses a
college enthusiasm which inspires otherwise dull minds to become a
graduate of that institution, and the ultimate result very probbly

) is more college graduates than there otherwise would have been.
rf ~~ Roughly speaking, therefore, we must assume that before we
-__ golve the right or wrong of subsidized football, we must know what
| __— is to be the purpose of education. And since the two ideas of the
-__ purpose of education undoubtedly will exist always, side by side, we
must expect that there will be two sides to the question of paying

_ youths to play football.
; rf c ; “ ES

7?
“ i
fom 8

he - aT
_- a
AFF 0

K Million College Students
ect | Can’t Be Wrong

gentlemen whose tinted brown skins
emphasize the whiteness of the underwear in which they are lounging, The
figure in the foreground is nonchal
 

} bm) mee
Pe eros, Se on yo
arty, graduates a as larg

. ihe Rene forces of the United States
wre ea the World War,” accord
       
       
           
         
 
    
 
   
 
 
 
 
  
   
  

ea |

 
     
 

ing to les Phelps Cushing in the|antly smoking a pipe. The legend
-- November College Humor. ‘They | above reads:
was exert tremendous influence upon | COLLEGE MEN O. K.’ED IT FIRST

  

the nation at large. And looking
ahead into next year’s fashions in en--—-' tertainment, comforts, manners and
s, I cannot refrain from quoting
a certain popular song that a
| ion college tudents can’t be
ag 9 3D

it ever occurred to the minds
r large and steady

(That's because they saw it first)
Now Men Everywhere Agree About
This New Style Underwear
“Yes, that’s amusing. But it has
significance, too. Some copywriter
probably gave that advertisement
lenty of serious pondering before he
aunched it; and a manufacturer paid
a fat price to get it printed. The

   

be *

  
 
   

the: = ber of young people | assumption of interest to us is that
college, and the proportion-|the multitude will buy what They

'| (with a capital T) approve.

he D. (seeing Prof. MacFarlane and his
Y©) wife walking up Coburg Rd.) “Aren’t

~ ; bay ade a wife—"

fa >, Lonenzo: “No girl ever made a fool

inday|ofme.” |
ibit A.| — "Zeno: “Well, who was it then,”

 

  
    
  
  
  
  
 

  

~

Lap le 7 >

me,
% 7
e ~~).
. 5 Pa =,
: a 7 gl a *.
a i ol ‘ *

‘| F
ra oe:

a =
i

   

Dress Reform—for Men.

The vision that such suggestions call
forth in most people’s minds is that of
a sweating business man who is radical
enough to walk to business in his shirtsleeves, or even in knee length pants.
Such visions are anything but attractive
at this time of the year, when the
first cold snaps ate turning all our
minds to winter coats.

And looking over the dress reforms
of the last few years, we greatly doubt
whether any discussion will do any
good. For all reforms that can be
remembered by this generation came
as the result of mere capricious fads.
Men did not turn up the bottom of their
trousers at the beginning of the century to keep the edge from getting
muddy and wearing out, but just
because they fancied that a wide cuff
would look well at the bottom of a
pair of peg top trousers. Nor was it
because they realized the added comtort of an eighteen inch bottom that
men widened this same article of
apparel around the foot some six years
ago, but again merely because they
saw other men do so; other men having
done so for no good reason at all.

Some are dissatisfied with the tendencies of modern dress, saying tha
these things we hang about us are
becoming more cumbersome every day,
nevertheless, we cannot help ieeling
that we are more comfortable than the
buttoned-up gentleman of the photographs of half a century ago. Yet
this reform has occurred entirely by a
series of chances,

But it is only in dress, in which
man gives way to his foibles, that
chance will direct development along
the right line. Consideration of retorm is not only in place but is decidedly
advisable in human organization in
general.— McGill Daily.

It has been mooted that a model
League of Nations’ Assembly be sponsored in McGill early next year, probably February. To it will be invited
such of the Canadian universities as
find it practicable to travel to attend
and those universities which are only
across the border in the United States,
A similar Assembly was held in the
Maritimes last spring, under the
auspices of the universities there coOperating with certain colleges in the
New England states.— McGui Daily.

EXAMS THAT ONCE THROUGH
COLLEGE HALLS.

Music: The Harp that once—

Exams that once thru coliege hails,
.. Thesoulofjoy haveshed, |
Now come nd more to college walis,
_ Aquizzisthereinstead, =
So sleeps the pride of college days,
_. And loafing’s thrill is o’er,
And hearts that once would eat and
sleep,
Now feei that peace no more.

No more to girls and laddies bright,
the four exams will come,

Professors say that all is right,
Their hardest work is done.

Thus freedom from our walls is gone
The only throb that’s his,

Is when some heart indignant says
“I’m going to skip this quizz.”

—Si. F. X. Xaverian Wkly.

English Quizz Paper—Give  sentences with the following words: (a)
Fascinate (b) Officious (d) Satiate.

Seen on Angus’ paper:

(a)—My uncle had nine buttons on
his vest but he could only fascinate.

(b)—Officious a thing that lives in
water.

(c)—I took my girl to dinner and
I'll satiate.

—St. F. X. Xaverian Wkly.

Whee! Here | am, Abigail, at the
Varsity Saskatchewan—you know that
red hot dot on your dad’s map marked
‘“Saskatoon”’ well I’m at the place which
is to this town what a clothesline is to
washday. Oh, my dear, it’s so big
and wonderful and college is positively
the most bewildering place. I seem
so altogether unnecessary, and“get a
relapse of my old inferiority complex
every time I step out of my room.

Euphemia and I registered last Tuesday. And, my dear, the questions they
ask!! They should be well acquainted
with all my ancestors by now after ail
that probing. I'll bet they could pick
everyone of mine out in the hereafter.
But, then, my progenitors were always
high-minded, if you get what I mean.

I’m beginning to suspect there is a
ray of hope in that ‘‘monkey-business’”’
that’s being insistently investigated by
an individual called Darrow. Whenever I get up from a meal in the,dining hall I pray that there's just a few
characteristics of the camel involved
in my make-up.

I have a big sister to show me the
“ropes’’ and make me feel at home.
She’s the sweetest thing I ever saw
and smiled so nicely at me, These
“big ‘uns’ must be martyrs, and [|
actually mean that. I just stood there
grinning like a Cheshire cat, with my
arms dangling at my sides and standing
pidgeon-toed. She’s going to take me
to the Girls’ Reception on Friday evening and (oh—I’m scared) to the Pente
Kae Dance on Saturday. What would
you wear if you were in my shoes my
pink calico with purple sash, or my
specied dress? Or could you get them
in my shoes? She warned me not to
wear anything new because I won't
likely be able to recognize it “after the
ball is over.”

I yelled myself hoarse at the Rugby

game Saturday, just because I didn’t |

want to appear dumb, But I think
it was anit-social the ways those poor

~
RoE Soa

  

Mt

a
®
| ‘ ad

      

we,
Pe

pe! a

- DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

With Our Exchanges

Rie eek

line die,

darlings got messed up. I’m going to
read up on the game so I'll maybe
yell at the right place next time.

You can’t imagine how thrilled I
am—the most stunning looking man
I ever saw actually winked at me today. Oh, my dear, ail I could do was
to look calm and collected. But, darn
it all, if I hadn’t been so very calm,
I might have collected.

Starting to varsity is a scary business
with all these strange people. My
room-mate says she might as well be
in Turkey. Gosh, I wish I had a
harem myself. |

The very first day I was here, and
Arts and Science sophette offered to
sell me the College Building for $64.50.
But a Household Science stude noticed
that the front needed kalsomining and
offered me the whole business for $45
as a damaged copy. They reminded
me that an investment in education always paid good dividends. I think
I'll call for tenders.

—Taken from **The Sheaf.’’
University of Saskatchewan.

SODALES IN NEW ZEALAND.

 

_ Debating in New Zealand has two
outstanding features. The first is connected with the style of the Debates
themselves, and the second with the
style of the sudience. The first would
appear to be desirable, but, as to the
second opinions differ.

in Victoria University College, Wellington, the Debating Society holds
meetings regularly every fortnight in
the Coilege Hall. ‘There are two men
on each side who respectively move
and second and oppose and second the
motion to be discussed. The Debate is then thrown open and any
member present who wishes to speak
many come up on the platiorm and
deliver himseli (or herseit) of his (or
her) considered (or ill-considered) opinion on the subject. ‘Lhe usual number
ot speakers is about twelve. Lhe
leaders on each side sum up their
cases, and the judge for the evening
then gives his decision, placing the
hrst hve speakers in order of merit.
A record is kept of these placings and
at the close ot the year the dociety
gives to the winner a valuable prize
ur books, Unce in each year there Is
an evening tor impromptu speeches,
and at least once a ‘Visitors’ '’ Vebate,
At these Visitors’ '’ Debates the leader
ot each side is a prominent public man
interested in the question to be discussed. kor instance the last Debate of
this nature was on the motion “That
Government ot New Zealand by the
Labor Party~ would be in the best
interests of the country,’ and was
moyed by tHe >ecretary of the Labor
rarty, a very fine speaker, and opposed
by a ee Kelorm Party man,
inése Debates are also open to all
members who wish to speak, and it
would appear that this practice atiords
excellent training.

‘Lhe second and questionable feature
is the interjection by the audience.
Audiences at debates behave just like
audiences at political meetings, in
tact at the close of a recent debate
in N. Z., the chairman thanked the
speakers tor the “close and attentive
hearing they had given the audience,”
This is not the place to go deeply inte the pros and cons of this question,
but suitice it to say that, as at least
fifty per cent of the interruption is
of a decidedly humorous nature, debates become highly entertaining—at
the cost of course of the speakers’
peace of mind. When debates are
broadcast there are always two microphones, one on the platform for the
speeches, and one in the body of the
hall for the interjections.—The Ulyssey.

G. B. S. SAYS COLLEGE MEN ARE
INCAPABLE OF THOUGHT,

 

Mr. Shaw has deprived us of what
little self respect we did have. At
least we considered ourselves amongst
that two per cent in the classification
of thinkers: which runs:—Ninety five
per cent think other peoples’ thoughts,
three per cent think they think and
two per cent think. He might have
confined himself to some specific group
of universities but his statement would
include us all. We ourselves have one
consolation that it could not have
been meant for us, as we have not left
college yet, and evidently he has not
met many of our graduates.— McGill
Daily.

COLLITCH

As a result of this segregation of
university students as a special specie
under the genus of “homo sapiens,”
they are becoming a separate class with
definite and studied characteristics.
The movie-going public regard them as
a carousing bunch of young wheedlers,
given to the chronic ailments of puppy
love, and artistically decorated tomato
cans on wheels. The word “freshman” conveys an individual without
even the saving grace of faked intelligence: the “sophomore” is the sophisticated epitome of all savoir faire; the
“Junior” is usually the fellow who gives
up everything for the dear old Alma
Mater, and then, having run the gamut
of uncertain tribulations, comes romping home with a parchment role in one
hand and a new Schaeffner pen set in
the other.—The Varsity.

FIRE FIRE

1st. L. C.—I dropped four rings out
of my jewel case last night and a
freshette took to the fire escape!

2nd. ditto—How come?

ist L. C.—Miss Leslie says, ‘In the
case of four rings take the quickest
way out.” j

Mt. Allison Argosy Weekly.
t

}

oo

i a
‘

ee

 

Questions a

November 14th, 1929

nd Answers

— Conducted by Jack Starr —

(Address all letters for this department to Jack Star, C/o Dalhousie
Gazette).

Dear Jack Star:

Who were the past three editors of
the Gazette? How are they appointed? Did Prof. Horace Read ever hold

this position.
FORMER ACADIAN.

F. A. Andrew Olding Hebb (Graduate in Law) for the 1926-27 term, Fred
C. Jennings, Medicine ‘31, for 1927-28,
Benjamin Guss, Law ‘80, for 1928-29.

The Students’ Council makes the
appointment every year. Yes, Prof.
Read was an editor of the Gazette.
I have forgotten the year but you can
very easily get all necessary information
from the Gazette files in the Library.
Get in touch with Miss Shannon

Dear Jack Star:

I am taking Philosophy I[ and to
your astonishment I must say that
I like the class. I want to do some
experimental work in Psychology. Can
you suggest anything?

F, Y. H. There is no reason why I
should be surprised that you like Phil, I
Personally, think it is one of the most
interesting courses, given at Studley
and certainly one that I enjoyed immensely, Have you not sufficient
material on hand for psychological observation? However, since it is your
earnest desire to experiment I would
suggest that you get a loan of some
white mice. [I think Mr. Sina Singer,
our band leader, who has done some
work in the same line would be able to
help you. White mice are the most
satisfactory animals for experiments
in the field of learning, and you may
have no fear about handling them.
I would advise you take Education
next term,

Dear Jack Star:

I was working out a Cross-word
puzzle yesterday, and the name of an
American actress (seven letters) stuck
me. There is an “l’” and “‘s” in the
word, Can youhelp?

DISTRACTED~-CO-ED.

D.C. E. Try Russell.

Dear Jack Star:

When did Archibald Lampman die
and where? Do you like his poetry?
Do you think Archie does?

CO-ED from Cape Breton.

Co-ed from C. B. Archibald Lampman died in Ottawa, 1899, at the age
ef 38. I like his poetry and in the
words of Forster, the poet's painter
friend, | think that no writer holds a
more secure place in our literature
than Lampman. If yqu mean Dr. A.
MacMechan, I may venture to say
that the English professor is a devoted
admirer of the Canadian poet.

Dear Jack Star:

I love music and adore musicians.
Do you think Mr. Singer would object

if I made love to him? Will the band
play for the Dal-Wanderer's game?
“MAG”

Mag. Perhaps Mr. Singer would
not object, but I doubt very much if
Mrs. Singer would be pleased with it.
Yes, the band will be on hand for the
game.

 

—

Dear Jack Star;

Please do not divulge my identity,
but is it really true that Prof. Gautheron is not married.

“Agnes,”

Agnes: Rest assured. No, Prof.
Gautheron is not married. His home
is in Lyons, France, and he spen ts his
summers there with his parents.

Note.. Jf “Belle G.”, “F.2D. 0,,""
“Cowboy” and “Me Too”’ will call at
the Dalhousie Gazette office, in the
Forrest Building any afternoon of
next week, I shall be very glad to discuss their questions with them.

I am sorry that I cannot publish your
letter, ‘‘Mama’s Baby.’’ You did not
sign your name. Write again and tell
me who you are.

JACK STAR.

Informal Dance

Zeta Kappa Phi, Commerce Fraternity at Dalhousie opened their social
season with an informal dance on
Monday night, with about forty of
the members and their friends present.
New members of the fraternity attended. The rooms were prettily decorated for the occasion, the black and
orange colored streamers adding Hallow
e’en novelty to the occasion. The
chaperons were Mr. and Mrs. M. O.
Crowell, and Mrs. A. W. Morton.
The Committee in charge of the affair
are to be congratulated on their success
in the affair.

The list of guests were:

Professor and Mrs. W. R. Maxwell,
and the Misses Marion Kirk, Helen
Williams, Helen Manson, Isobel Chipman, Mildred Grant, Helen Nelson,
Helen McRae, Helen Holloway, Margaret Dormand, Mary Chirgwin, Elizabeth Saunderson, Mary Hall, Marion
West, Muriel Langstroth, Kitty Mc
Intosh, Lillian Lane, Marion Morton,
Sheila McManus, Mary Ross, Edith
Allan, Helen Ewing, Betty Young,
Betty Barnes and the Messrs. Arthur
Jubien, Murray Rankin, Jimmy Vooght
Wallace Rowlings, Max Ross, Harold
Grant, Charles Underwood, James
Fairbanks, Ralph Churchill, Murray
Zinck, Charles Stanfield, Laurie Hart,

Turner O’Brien, Lorne McLellan, Dow”
Seeley, George Thompson, Rand Mathe

son, Mac Blacadar, Herbert Morton,
Max Olive, Charles Miller, Robert
Thompson, Herman Harris, John McFarlane, Osborne Crowell, Philip Bachman, Fletcher Smith, Herbert Lamb,

Murray Scott, and Don Marven.

 

 

  

Heigh ho

Have you seen our exceptional values
in Smart Shirts?

Just the thing for college wear.

THE MEN’S WEAR SHOP

Of Course
30 SPRING GARDEN ROAD

SOLE AGENTS FOR

Everybody!

Where?

HOBBERLIN CLOTHES

 

Feeling Fit - 
 

ee

ae

The game is half won when you
can enter it with the zest and enthusiasm that comes from being
well equipped.

Make PHINNEY’S your headquarters
for College Sporting equipment, including the famous English regulation football togs

SPECIAL PRICES TO CLUBS

    
 
  
      

 

  
   
 
 
 
 
   
va, tithes
a

ani ee, Saree te 2
- .

: . oe
ass Ae,
r’ Rey >

2,

The Dalhousie Canadian Officers

Training Corps invites Dalhousians to take

e, Wednesday, Nov. m., in the Studley

Pe , ah. Sas ae
‘ Ai a ive re
i, of oe A ee es

uy ie ie ms
Oe

 
 
   
  
   
   
  
    

for Recruits

sprit de corps”’ a spirit of common
‘oti honour, and interest. In
alhousie, this spirit exists and has
existed for years. Possibly it shows
itself in a quieter and more stately

rm than in some other colleges of

ee ‘, but nevertheless it is here.
_ Surely any organization that helps this

- feeling of common interest and honour
w, is worth having and worth be
to,
oe Dey Dalhousie Canadian Officer’s
Training Corps does help.

We want recruits, preferably those
who will be in the college for three or
four years. In their hands lies the

: f wae 2 . . .

_—s power to make this organization the
most successful in the University and a
ern anal to every Dalhousian. _ x
, F xe G. R. CONROD, Lieut. (Kings)
ie i No. 1 Platoon Commander.

          
   
  
  

 

ae

,
¥
o—)
r

fe Everybody out and make the C.O.T.
Ca big success this year, this can only
_-—-—Cibe done if we have the co-operation of
all the students.
ee The prime aim of the C. O. T. C. is
to train men for officers in the Can__ adian Militia and a course of two years
is provided for this purpose. Besides
the actual drill we hope to have social
events, Smokers, etc., and for those
interested in shooting we hope to put
a team-in the Indoor League this
ees, oll winter.
_~—s Everybody out and make this a big

f  . ~ success.
os MAYO HARRIGAN,
; Lieut

E -C.0.T.C. Parade

   
    
     
      
   

 

__ The regular weekly parade of the
oat Dalhousie C. O. T. C. was held last
Wednesday evening with about 60
officers and men in attendance.

At the first of the evening the N. C.
b yor O's. for this year were appointed

a The following received promotion:—
Ne be tor’ mpany Sergeant Major, Charles
: <> = Stewart; Platoon Sergeants Alex. Nick

-_erson, Lebrun and Charles Lorway.
fF ~=Ssiss=Ss«SSection Commanders, J. Brookfield,
} ey _ J. Conrad, Wallace, J. Garden, Archipald, Baker, Hemeon, Maclllreith,

-K. Mahen, Lea and Sheppard. ;
The C. O. T. C. has now started its
year’s work in earnest. The evening
is divided into three periods; (1) a
period of drill, (2) a period for lecture,

- 7
fi
a
i

4
fl

 

___ (8) a second period of drill.
Shooting at the Armories will start
goon each man being required to put
in 10 practices.
| R. W. McCARTHY,
r Reporter.
: e
m Adjutant
r
ee

 

a Lt. Geo. S. Mahon, Adjutant of the
1. local C.0. T.C.

a make good progress this year.

| by the Country through C. O.

influence on University life.

, what has been told
ced thata

sities th

ves.
i

Be, 7 Tike thelr ssrvice in the
ies +8

 

 

Major J. S. Roper,. M.. C.., Officer
Commanding Dalhousie C. O. 7 C
DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

). T. C. A MOST VITAL FA

 

OS

Col. W. E. Thompson, a member of

Col. W. P. Gibsone, D. O. C. of Mil-| the Board of Govrnors, Dalhousie, former

itary District, No. 6.

| O- C. of the Officers Traning Corps.

 

Adjutant requests
New Members

The Editor of the Gazette:—

Owing to the fact that the Dal.
C. QO. T. C. has been growing continuously for the past few weeks many
requests have come to me asking if it
is possible to join the corps at this
late date. I have told such enquirers
that as yet it is not too late to join up
and that if they have had any cadet or
military*training at all, they will not
be at any serious disadvantage because
of missing several parades. I take
this opportunity of informing those
who have found that they would like
to take part in this work that they can
do so and still not be at any disadvantage as to their chances of qualification.

We cannot provide non-commissioned
ranks for any first year men and it is
hoped that you will understand the
reasons for this, I know that there are
many in this University who are highly
qualified along military lines, and perhaps don’t enjoy serving as a junior
rank. It was decided that those
serving in. the corps last year, the year

of its reorganization should have pref
erance in receiving the non commissioned ranks. Then again seniority is not
rubbed in on parade or any place else.

The boys last year got along well with

each other anfi due to the fact that we

are all undergraduate or graduate
students, none take offence. Every

member is known as a_ gentleman
cadet and when attending military
schools of Instruction take upon themselves the rank of provisional lieutenant

Every one is practically speaking on
an equal footing, working for the same
thing, namely, the obtaining of an “A”
certificate, which is adequate qualification for the rank of Lieut in the
non-permanent active militia. The
main reason for having N. C. O.’s is
for organization purposes and so that
we have someone to call upon when
needed who can act in official capacity.

| would like to thank those who
took up the reorganization of this
corps last year. Things when they
are starting require a great deal of
work and because the boys entered
into their training without any restraint, made the reorganization very
much easier than was expected.

It has been asked what opportunities
are there for rifle shooting— It might
be said in reply to this that the C.O.T.C
took over the Dal Rifle Club this year
and shot the Intercollegiate Rifle
Shoot. The practice costs and the
expenses arising from the shoot itself
were born by the C. 0. T.C. Formerly
this was taken from Student Council
funds. It was not necessary to be a
member of the C. O. T. C. to be a
member of this rifle team. Ateam
will be entered in the Halifax Garrison
Indoor Rifle League this winter under
the name of the C. O. T. C. and men
are now being trained for this team.
The summer program will be arranged
according to the results obtained this
winter. Last year two members shot
in the Dominion shoot at Ottawa
and it is hoped that we will be able to
have representatives next summer.

1 thank you, Mr. Editor, for this
opportunity of answering several questions which are constantly being asked.

Yours truly,
GEORGE MAHON.

 

A Splendid Influence

Ba * Fi I was very much pleased last year to see such a good beginoe ning made by the Dalhousie C. O. T. C. and hope that it will

 

part from any advantages, Military or otherwise, gained

T. C. Contingents, there is no

doubt that they have been found by experience to have a good

ww,’ From personal observation in other parts of Canada and

me by those who should know, I am convingood C. O. T. C. unit
< _ versity, not only with the general public, but as between Univer
adds to the prestige of its Uni
I feel sure that the large majority of those who join will
by the training _ ee and will not regret in after

W. GIBSONE, Brigadier,
District Officer Commanding,
Military District No. 6.

Movement Encourages Peace - Says Former Editor

 

Major J. S. Roper commends local organization on
showing--Now one hundred per cent
student activity.

Editor-in-Chief,
Dalhousie Gazette,
Halifax, N.S.

Sir:—

As an original member of the Dalhousie C. O. T. C. and the
present Command Officer, I wish to commend the Unit to the

Student Body.

The C. O. T. C. was formed in 1914, under the command of
Col. W. E. Thompson with the ideaof training men for war.
Its strength at one time was over 600, many of whom enlisted

and went to France.

At that time it consisted of members of

the Board of Governors, members of the Senate, members of

the Alumni Association, Students And Citizens.

a proud one.
ashamed.

Its record is

No Dalhousian, however greata rfacifist, need be

Today the C. O. T. C. is composed entirely of the Student

Body.

Its purpose is to keep men fit and give them an oppor
tunity of getting some Military training so that they may be

better able to practice the arts of peace.

We started last year

under conditions which were far from satisfactory, but the
strength of the Unit at the end of the college year was 75. I
think all those who took part will vouch for the advantages of
the training they received. This year we got off to a better
start, and we hope that all those who are interested in this sort

of thing will come and join us.

about the training.
pays the bills.

We want volunteers.
Those who successfully pass the examinations

There is nothing compulsory
The Government

are entitled to the rank of Lieutenant in the Canadian Militia
and to that of Captain if they wish to take further training.

As Commanding Officer of the Unit, I ask all those who
are interested to join us and turn out for enlistment at the Gym
nasium next Wednesday night at 7.30.

Of all others,

mem
bers of the Board of Governors, members of the Senate, Students and Alumni, | ask their cordial co-operation and support.
The C. O. T. C. is just trying to do for Dalhousie what similar

units are trying to do for other Universities.

We are not train
ing to start another war or to instill into the minds of our mem
bers the love for war.

Those of us who have experienced war,
with all its horrors, would be the last to do that.

All we are

trying to do, is through the C. O. T. C. to train a body of men
physically fit, mentally equipped, and so disciplined that they
may be better able to take their part in the life of Canada.

Yours truly,

 

Li. GeraldX'Conrod newly appointed
officer this year, formerly held his
commission with Halifax Rifles.

FOR MATH I ONLY.

Advertisement says Listerine kills
200,000,000 bacteria in 15 seconds,
The problem of the Shuttleworth
Mathematical Society this will be:

Calculate the number it can kill on
a windy Wednesday afternoon, if there
are 57 varieties of satisfied customers
watching the danger line and babies
cry for, Castoria every time I sit down
at the piano.

Nick in Chemistry to, Prowse ‘‘name
a poison,”’

Prowse, ‘Aviation, Sir!’

Nick, WHAT!!!!!

Prowse, “Yes sir, one drop kills,

J.S. ROPER.

 

Lt. Mayo Harrigan, appointed this
year to this office. He formerly held a
Com. with Tth Fortress Signal Company.

INT ERCOLLEGIATE PRESS—HUM

Scientists tell us that it is alcohol
that makes the leaves turn red and fall
to the ground. Why can’t federal
authorities do a little raiding in our
forests in the interests of eternal
summer—— Plain Dealer.

A famous explorer tells us that one
of the fastest creatures on earth is
a lion in the last 100 yards of its charge
upon anenemy. That's one statement
we'll never attempt to prove for ourselves.

 

 

CTOR IN COLLEG

 

Page Four

E LIFE

History of C. O. T. C. Reviewed by

Col. W. E.

Thompson.

 

Former D. O. C. relates part played by Dalhousie
Unit in recent World Struggle--Aims of
organization outlined.

Years before the Great War broke
out the British Empire had recognized
the need for a Military Unit into which
students of Universities: could be incorporated and led to give some study
to matters of training, discipline, and
defence so that when they were graduated into the business world they
would be ready in cases of emergency
to fill positions of leadership as executive or operative officers.

Great Britain declared war August

4th, 1914 and Canada August 7th,
three days later. On that day the
Militia Units of Halifax, consisting

of the lst C. A., the 68rd Regiment and
the 66th Regiment marched out full
strength and remained on active service until the close of the War.

In October 1914 an officer of the
63rd Regiment ‘Halifax Rifles’ was

relieved of Regimental duties and
detailed to organize Units of the
“Canadian Officers Training Corps’’
in. the Maritime Universities and

within three months active, enthusiastic Units were organized and at work
at Dalhousie, King’s, Acadia, St.
Francis Xavier and Mount Allison.

The first meeting to organize the
Dalhousie Unit was held in the Law
Library and was presided over by the
then Chairman of the Board of Governors, the late George S. Campbell,
LL. D., who spoke to the large body of
students present with his well remembered practical forcefulness.

The Organizing Officer followed
giving the details of the procedure
to be pursued, the nature of the training
and the end to be attained.

A young law student, now Lieut.
Col. Keeler McKay, Barrister of
Toronto, with a very brilliant record
with the guns in France, was the first
student speaker and the enthusiasm
aroused by his remarks showed that
the success of the movement as far as
Dalhousie was concerned’ was assured.

A similarly successful meeting was
held in the English room at Forrest
Hall and in closing his address here the
Organizer stated that he looked forward to the Unit being made up of a
Company of Arts and Science men, a
Company of Lawyers, a Company of
Doctors and a Company of Parsons,
This idea of a Company of Parsons
seemed such a novel one that the Arts
men broke into laughter; but when
after an organizing meeting at Pine
Hill at the request of Principal MacKinnon, the students there organized,
and when drills began in the old rink
on Fenwick Street and the Pine Hill
men and Professors marched on parade
with the largest Company in the Unit
and continued to so parade there was
no more laughter but cheers and words
of highest commendation.

Major W. E. Thompson, 63rd.
Regiment ‘‘Halifax Rifles’ was appointed Officer commanding the Unit.

Training started during the fall of
1914 and continued throughout 1915.
Many could not stand the humdrum
of this slow training and broke away
whenever a chance offered to enlist in
Units going across, some alas never to
return, until practically all who were
fit for service had been absorbed in
some active service Unit.

Upon the transfer of Major Thompson in March 1915 to H. Q. Staff, M. D.
6, as A. A. G. and Officer in charge of
Administration, he was succeeded in the
command of the Unit by Major (Doctor) John Cameron, still a prominent
member of .the Medical Staff of the
University.

By the end of 1915 so many members of the Unit had obtained their
commissions and so many others had
in their impatience to get into the
big game enlisted, and the University
being practically depleted of its service material, it was decided to discontinue parades and until its revival
this year under the command
Major J. S. Roper, M. C., the Unit
has been inactive.

Major Roper began his

training in the Dalhousie C. O. T. C.

torily called home for Garrison duty in
order that at least one of this gallant
family might be preserved.

Those of you reading this who remember those early days will recall
many more who served, and also the
large number of other citizens who
were ready to stand on guard among
whom were:—

Professors Howard Murray, Murray
McNeil, Rev. Dr. R. W. Ross, Hon.
Mr. Justice Chisholm, G. Fred Pearson,
Chairman of Dalhousie’s Board
Governors, and scores of others,

These men did not gather together
because they wanted to fight or because
they had a desire for war. They were
not men of war, they were men of
peace but not “‘pacifists’’ called).
The emergency was such, and it may
come again (though the Lord forbid
when such men as they will conceive
it their duty as they did to “buckle
on their armour’ and march forth to
“fight the good fight” that will hasten
on the time when there will be ‘‘peace
and good will among men” throughout
the world.

This article should not close without
reverent reference to the many student
members of this Corps who gave their
lives in the name of duty. Their names
were on the recent anniversary of
the Armistice read once more at the
gathering of present Dalhousians
that day and rising above the pang of
deep sorrow that struck the hearts
of many listenersas the name was read
of some one whose memory Was very dear
there will rise above and over all the
thought of duty nobly done.

A brave Halifax Mother after bidding
good-bye to her only son bore up
stoically until he had passed out of
sight then almost gave way, but
brushing aside the tear that would
insist and drawing herself up said—
“Isn't it terrible to see him go but
wouldn’t it be awful if he did not want
to go.”’

of

SO

on

 

Lieutenant

 

 

Walter Benneti, who lead his class

Lt.
during two successive years
School of Flying, Camp Borden.

“Doing One's Bit’’

at Royal

A recent editorial in the Gazette

of | dealt with the subject “Doing One’s

Bit,”’ as applied to college activities,
It was stated that many students

military | maintain that they cannot help along

any of the organizations. The Gazette

and is to be congratulated on having] pointedly remarked that to this atti
been selected to fill this command, an|tude the term

“convenient modesty’’

honour which doubtless he wears with ; may be aptly applied.

he does the
during the
have come to)!

as much satisfaction as
honours which he won
Great War and which
him in civil life since.

And Major Roper is not the only
member of the original Dalhousie
C. O. T. C. who has won honors from |
the State and from his fellows. To}
attempt to name them all would be|
impossible but among those who found |
their places in active service Units
and contributed in no small way to
the success of the allied forces were
such men as:—

Col. The Hon. J. L. Ralston, Minister of National Defence.

Lieut Col. E. C. Phinney,

Major, The Reverend Clarence MacKinnon,

Major, Professor H. A. Kent, D. D.

Major W. Martin King, son-in-law
of the President of the University who
as an officer of the R. C. R. was the
first Officer to sign the Golden Book
at Mons on the morning of its final
capture.

Then there were practically all the
juniors of the Stairs family of Halifax,
Gavin, Graham and Phil, who gave
their all, and Syd who was peremp
Dalhousie C. O. T. C. challenges
your interest as a university organization. An expansion program is being

| put into effect, which upon compietion

will have made of this unit an enviable
organization both as to numbers and
efficiency.

C. O. T. C. asks of you allegiance to
the Crown and your attendance at
parade one evening a week. In return
it offers you the necessary equipment,
remuneration for your time, membership in a progressive group, and the
opportunity to qualify for a Commission. The problem of ‘Doing One's
Bit’’ would appear to be partially solved
Wednesday is parade night.

W.E. BENNETT,
Lieut.

The Maccabean Society of Dalhousie
held their annual Thanksgiving dance
on Monday night with a large attendance of its members and their friends.

The dance was one of the most
enjoyable affairs the Society has held
for a long time. The hall was appropriately decorated in gold and black,
and the music excellent. A real good
time was had by all, IR

.R,
   
  
    
 
   
  
 
     
 
 
      
   
     
         
   
    
    
    

_
i
;
"7

: +t
a _ *
ee
a i

W TK
‘ ee vr

7

a

  

ae
i
ie

aw
x =

CS, ae

a4 i el ® a *
i Sir - Richard Squires visited the
Ds lhousie Law School last week. He
_ spoke to the students of the great
_ suecess achieved by many graduates
of this little school. He told of the
: s when he and others who have
since become Premiers, Supreme Court
= - Judges, prominent barristers, leaders
i a. BD

uublic life, and successful business
men sat at the same old time worn
benches. “In those days” Sir Richard
said, ‘‘we were proud because England
recognized the Dalhousie Law School
as one of the pioneer law schools of the
_ world.” Then the NewfoundlandjPreier spoke of the many advances made
since that time. He told of a recent
tour he had taken across Canada—and
everywhere he had found men prom
Po, nt in public life, graduates of the
ub Law School. “I found,” Sir Richard
ie

;

   
   
  
  
   

  
  
 
   
 
 

  

, “three cabinet ministers of British
: ia old Dalhousie men—and |
have as many in my own cabinet."
ae

GREAT OPPORTUNITIES TODAY

   

-_

  
   

Se

  

  

ait

    
  
  

or '
- he opportunities that are now
offered to young men trained in the
law are greater today than they were
jn the days when Hon. Edgar Nelson
- Rhodes, Premier of this Province,
Hon. R. B. Bennett, Leader of His
Majesty's Loyal Opporsition in the
House of Commons and Sir Richard
- Suires, graduated from this institution.
---s«- Those men had to work hard under
great difficulties in order to reach the
ne heights which they have attained;
and each one of them will tell you how
highly they value their legal training,
the learning of the principles of justice
and equity, a love for the law of our
country which they acquired under
honoured teachers at the Forrest
Building.
-——s And yet with an increased demand
. A * of Pitally trained men, with better
economic conditions in this part of

i" %
bmp i

da, there is little increase in the
u ber of students of law.

  
  
  
    
   
  

       
  

 

   

  
  

     
   
   
    
    
     
  

 
  
 

 

    
   

What is
this- It seems strange

 

reason for

re a hy ~ *

 

 

      
  
 
 
  

7 i.
hie et

ea ———_—__—_————
al ae a eee ae ;

 

  

,

 
   
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  

Bee remy 8 4h.
re =¢ OBACO NIST soo .
| Smokers Requisites of every
_———s description

  

‘ v. aoe ~ : a i
A complete stock of Domestic
| Bat ; F asi Imported
| CIGARS, CIGARETTES
| =o and TOBACCOS

 
 
  
   
 

ee | a et ys
_ §§ 21 Spring Garden Road
et

 

 

 

 
   
 
 
  

  

~ —_ dete

Law, the Preparation for
~~ Modern Business and

Public Life

The First of a Series of Articles on Dalhousie’s
Little Law School ‘the trainIng school of a nation”

 

\

that with the other facilities in the
University showing a marked increase in the number of students, Law
with its undoubtedly exceptional opportunities should be less sought after
than Medicine, Arts, Science or Commerce.

WRONG IMPRESSIONS OF LAW.

 

The only apparent explanation for
this state of affairs is that the opportunities which law lffers are not properly placed before the young men and
women upon first entering the ;University. Of course many of the younger generation have an idea of law that
is as distasteful as it is wrong. They
think of law graduates spending years
of apprenticeship in a musty law office,
poring over books, with the possibility
of some day pleading before a jury ina
murder trial. To them the Utopian
barrister is one who can sway a jury
and free an innocent women in the
melodramatic manner which they have
witnessed at their local theatre. They
either do not know or forget that the
heads of the largest corporations on
this continent, as, for example, the
C. P. R. and Unite States Steel Corporation, are legally trained men; that
business today is demanding men
trained in the law. They forget that
this is a young and rapidly developing
country in which more varied opportunities are offered to a legally trained
business man than to any other individual.

To many persons the study of law
only equips a student to juggle with
technicalities, to prove to the satisfaction of a court that black is white,
and to turn to profit the mistakes and
wrongs of others. ‘Membership in the
profession of the law, with its high
traditions of integrity and scholarship,

| however, calls for a devotion to the
cause of promoting that kind of order
in the community which results from
the formulation and administration of
just laws. Surely, the assurance of
justice is a task for the young Galahad
quite as worthy of service and sacrifice
as that which beckons men into theology, medicine or dentistry.

MORE OPENINGS.

|.) Upon investigation it appears that
J, | there are plac
"| more students

and opportunities for
an are graduated yearThe Mari
places
from the Law School.

|have been absorbing for the strict

| practice of law on the average, ten of

the Law School gratuates per year.
—

   

 

 
   

As Usual

The best in Ice Creams, Confectionery and Meals, as well

   
 
  

  
  

as courtesy, efficent service and

 

attractive surroundings are to
be had at

 

   
  
   
   

BUTTONS ON
- || RENTS MENDED
| HOLES DARNED

Se a.

et

R

That’s the service you
free when you send YO
Laundry to Ungar’s.

 

*

i
2 ze y .- a7 1.2 -
a a a

he ed es
- a

|| VALETERIA

A new pressing Service:

Your Suit or Overcoat
Steam Cleaned and Pressed, for 75c. or 4 Tickets
for $2.00.

i

cy
1 ee ode a
vat Pe ee Lak

|| NECKTIES, cleaned 10c.

UNGAR’S

Barrington St., Halifax, N. S.
Sac. 428 Har. 127

«|| LAUNDERING DYEING
- || CLEANING PRESSING

 
   
  
    
 
   
    
   
 
 
 
  
   
   
   
   

The Green Lantern.

 

Our High Quality Standard
makes our Low Price
Doubly Attractive

SUITS, OVERCOATS
FULL DRESS and
TUXEDO, at one
price

$24

MADE TO MEASURE

Tip Top Tailors
THE STUDENT’S TAILORS
TRAMWAY BUILDING
Barrington and Sackville Sts.

 

 

      
 

  
   

©
i

| E }

a i
i) |S

      
   

|| watch word for forty

eh
i

 

;
a |

  

aa |

 
    
        

'
F
a
_ 
     
 

iy Boel
abag

7
c
7

   

  

 

  

 

 

| Men’s Hosiery-
 

| Let your Hosiery reflect your good taste.
|| Come to the store where quality has been a

years. Our 50c. Men’s

| Socks are good value, likewise those priced at
- $2.00 the pair. We carry the largest assort_ ment in the Maritimes.

COLWELL BROTHERS. Ltd

453-457 BARRINGTON STREET

e a .
aa “et ¥
eer a) NY
. a = ‘

Bane Provinces and Newfoundland

 

   

Meee ee ee ae

a Ce ae

re

oho
17

aT

  

ae,

>

 

   

2

 
 

With better economic conditions, it is
estimated that this district should
have openings for a minimum of
fifteen or twenty graduates per year.
The graduates of the Law School
have, during the last few years, ceased
going to Western Canada, and it may
be suggested that their reason is to be
found in the fact that law schools have
in recent years been established in
Manitoba, Saskatchewan and Alberta.
They probably infer that these schools
supply the need of the communities in
Western Canada for legally trained men
But it is a fact that those Dalhousie
law graduates who have taken up the
practice of law in the western provinces
since the establishment of the local
schools are succeeding. J. R. Nicholson, who graduated from the Law
School in 1923, and who is practising
in Vancouver, visited the School in
October and told of the success of
many of his contemporaries at the
Law School in the practise of law in
Western Canada. Mr. Nicholson said
that there are few openings in the
larger cities such as Winnipeg, Calgary,
Regina, Vancouver and Victoria, but
that he is of the opinion there are real
opportunities for graduates who are
willing to settle in the smaller towns of
the West and work hard.

Within the last few years, several
of the graduates of the School have
gone into practice in Ontario and,
without exception, these men are
succeeding. The United States, particularly New York, has also become
a field for Dalhousie graduates of
recent years for the practice of law.
The degree in law conferred by Dalhousie University has been recognized
by the New York State Department of
Education.

PLACE FOR LAW GRADUATE IN
BUSINESS.

The trend of the practice of law in
the last quarter of a century is significant. The day of the lawyer who
with tears and eloquence swayed a
jury has passed. The counsel who
stars before a court of Appeal is now
usually a specialist. Many of the
leaders of the Bar today are men who
work entirely in their offices or outside
of the court room; and their task is the
prevention of trouble rather than the
conduct of litigation after the mischief
complained of has occurred. The
modern lawyer is often more of a business expert than a barrister and it has
been found that the training in law
does in a large measure equip a man fo
activities in the business or commercial
life of the community. Inroads have
been made by trust companies upon
the field of estate work which twenty
five years ago was handled quite ex-|.

clusively by lawyers, but to compensate for this loss to the legal profession,
trust companies are employing many
graduates in law. Insurance companies and investment houses are
looking for legally trained men while
many of the large corporations have
established legal departments which
must be manned by lawyers, and entrance into such a department frequently leads to high executive positions with the company. The business
interests are looking to the law school
for recruits,

SOPHOMORE DEBATING TEAM
CHOSEN.

On Tuesday last; the debating team
for Class ’82 was chosen after the
trials has been held. ‘The Sophomore
will be represent this- year’ by Ray
McCarthy (leader) and Evelyn McEIhinney. There were but two speakers
at the trials—Ray McCarthy and
Julius Rosenblum. Both speakers were
good, and it was only after great deliberation that the judges gave their
decision, The judges were Bill Jost,
Cyril Greene and Tom MacDonald.

PIANOS, VICTROLAS,
Small Musical Instruments and Victor Records

We invite you to join our

Fiction Lending Library

2 Cents per day

McDonald Music Co.

93 Barrington St. Halifax.

Xmas. Cards

Order your Xmas. Cards
from the

ROSS PRINT LIMITED

Large assortment
Lowest prices

THE ROSS PRINT

95 Argyle Street

Halifax

N.S.

 

a a ae a oe — ee a +, 5 _s
a et oe aes hae ee he
. = ae “7 er hay A

‘iy ae .

 

__DALHOUSIE GAZETTE.

The Legend of
the Campers

(The which might have occured at any
college).

A milk white fog had drifted from the

sea:

One scarce could see before one’s very
nose,

The fog horn pierced the air at intervals

The Campus road was darker than its

_ wont.

Weird noises issued from the mirky
mist,

And made one’s hair stand straight up
from one’s head.

A sophomore walked along the cindered

' way,
But wished himeslf safe home at every
step.
A tale, most strange, was running

through his head.

It seemed that many, many years ago,

Initiation went hard with the Frosh—

One Freshman never saw his Sophomore year.

The Sophomore shuddered and pursued

_| his way.

Each tree became a corpse with watery
shroud—

The prea of branch became a ghostly
wail,

Ha! What was that? A footstep from
the dark?

The cinders crunched beneath some
stealthy foot.

The Sophomore moved on faster, and,
thought he,

‘That step was far too light for human
kind!”

“O, Sophomore is that you walking

there
“Be kinder to your Frosh! Take heed!
Beware!

“Or else I'll stay beside you everywhere!”

Swiftly the Sophomore flew into his
home
His feet, they scarcely seemed to touch
the ground,
A ghastly laugh was ringing in his ears.
* * * « ™

Next day the Freshmen wore a broader,
smile,
And all the Sophs were gentler for a
while.
E. M. M.

Girls Sports
Get Underway

The girls’ games have begun in real
earnest now. There have been three
games of the Inter-class basketball
series played off; the first game, played
on Oct. 17th, between a Junior-Senior
team and the Sophomores, resulted
in a win for the former with a score of
27-17. The King’s Co-eds won the
second game over the Freshettes, toa
score of 12-4; the Junior-Senior team
again was victorious in the next game,
when it played the Freshettes, this
time with a score of 30-20—- The following is a schedule of the remaining
games:

Nov. 12th King’s vs Freshettes
Nov. 14th King’s vs Sophomores
Nov. 19th-Freshettes vs Junior-SeniOrs,
Nov. 21st Junion-Senior vs King’
Nov.4.26th Freshettes vs Sophomores
Nov. 28th Sophomores vs King’s

During the series, the evenings will
be divided into three periods. 1.
General practice for players wishing
to try out for the Intercollegiate,
Senior and Intermediate City League
Teams, 7:30. 2. Interclass game, 8:30.
3. Beginners Basketabll Class 9:00,

The Ground Hockey girls have been
turning out regularly, and have had
several practice tilts with the Ladies’
College girls and with the King’s boys.
We were disappointed to hear there
will not be an Acadia Ground Hockey
team this year; it has been looked
forward to with a great deal of interest.
It is expected, however, that the team
will make a trip to Windsor to play
the Edgehill Girls.

The Badminton hours have been
assigned, namely, from 2:30-4:30 on
Wednesdays and Fridays, and from
7:00-8:30 on Friday nights. There
have been many girls out for fencing
too, although there are no definite
hours fixed for it. The girls’ room in
the gym is available at practically any
time for any who want to practise
fencing.

Leather Goods
Last!

Students know—Kelly’s Leather goods lasts for years.
Treat yourself to a new leather
Portfolio or loose leaf book
See our assortment of Novelty
Goods—First floor.

Kelly’s, Limited

GRANVILLE STREET.

 

    
   
     

 

 

*

 

SMART TOGS

FOR

The Co-ed.

JENSEN & MILLS CO.

LIMITED
SPRING GARDEN ROAD

 

Page Fiv

 

 

THE MOUTHPIECE

To the Editor of the Dalhousie Gazette,

Dear Sir:

You published an article entitled
“Pen Pictures Portraying Popular
Profs,” which subsequently raised an
outcry from a correspondent who signs
himself “One who knows better.”
It is clearly to be seen that this person
is a good friend of the professor in
question and is evidently greatly angered by what he calls the witty remarks
of a ‘‘Smart Alec,”’ :

The reputation of our Senior Professor is widely known. To put in
black and white in the little space at
his disposal a full description of his
subject was obviously an impossibility
for ‘‘One who Knows.”’ I doubt very
much whether a longer and more adequate article would have been as fully
appreciated as was the one that did
appear. The writer tried to impress
his readers with the idealism, the
spirit of elderly benevolence and the
seyeral other attributes belonging to
the man, and “humorous and witty”’
though his remarks may be, I maintain that he has accomplished his
purpose, May I submit then, Mr,
Editor, that despite the assertion of
your correspondent, ‘One who knows’
has not left a false impression with

your readers, and may I submit,
furthermore, (those who have not
taken Major English will doubtless

remember this expression) that any
alteration in the style of these por
traits will be an unwelzome change.

“One who knows better’’ is undoubtedly a person who is suffering more or
less from an “inferiority complex” and
like all people afflicted with that
peculiar type of disease is entirely
devoid of a sense of humour. He is
too exciteable and forms his conclusions too quickly. May I venture to
say that “One who knows better’’
will perform a better service to this
college, if instead of unwarranted
criticism of these, who are earnestly
endeavouring to make of Dalhousie’s
most important extra-curricular activities a success, he will produce some
thing that is constructive and helpful.
However, that child of too much education—the critic, must live, and we
as one group of Society cannot exist
without him.

Yours sincerely,
“One Who Knows Something Too.”

 

Phil Magonet.—Why sure I’m all
for coeducation. Our tuition fee is
reduced as a result of the heavy tol
paid by our fair students. Our dancesl
games, Glee Club shows, etc., all
profit by their intense interest, Let’s
have more of them.

Westhaver.—Am I for coeducation?
Well I'll say Iam. I look after Shirreff Hall, Coeducation made possible
that building. Figure it our for yourself.

Blended Right!

Winchesters have
more devoted friends
and more delighted
acquaintances than
ever before.

Win

 

chester

CIGARETTES

20 for 25c.

 

 

 

YELLOW cCAB||| BIRKS

LIMITED

SACK. 4444
Halifax Only Metered

Service

Same Rates 24 Hours.
Two travel for same as one.
More than two, 20 cents extra,

 

 

Fraternity Pins andjClass
Jewelry are smarter when
made by experienced work-~
men.

We have specialized in this
field for years.

Henry Birks & Sons
Limited
DIAMOND MERCHANTS
Halifax.

 

 

 

times before

 

You

 

Noticed That

 

 

LLthe garments at D’Eauville’s are
good numbers.

like you find in most other stores.
reason for this is that all D’Eauville’s
Coats and Dresses are

No poor STYLES
The

inspected three
being submitted for your

approval at our shops.

First they are inspected at the factory.
Second they are carefully looked over at
the warehouse.
ed at our shops.

Thirdly they are inspect
At every inspection every garment that is not up to
the minute in every way is discarded. The result is
that in buying at D’Eauville’s shops you have a triple
assurance of getting authentic styles and quality at

moderate prices.

D Sauville’s

HALIFAX
AT 31 SPRING GARDEN ROAD.
19 PORTLAND STREET, DARTMOUTH

All Coats $12.00----All Dresses $24.00

ee

 

 
   
 
    

        
  

Fi ay, 3 F °§

_ Ca 7 ut mi 5 , &
7

     
   
   
 

: Me ‘eS iis
- eS fe att ee an We
Conception of Outsider is

  

’ 2
' Pi. ple

eee ros

rp Se

‘Fraternities at Dalhousie have been | na

riter

 

Fraternity Situation

 

Grossly Exaggerated avers

 

However, a fraternity worthy of the

7. Pee increasing since the formation | purposes given above. The organiz
 
 
   
  
  
  
 

and two of local character.

 
 

 
   
 

ee

pie

- organization of this kind| ations arise from a desire among stud. Now there are in the| ents at universities for closer fellowship
ity seven fraternities, five with| than the ordinary, hail fellow well met
or international affiliations, | style. They pl
nm Perhaps| the formation and retaining through
due almost wholly to the secret nature|college days and after life, of true

exist then primarily for

of the Greek letter societies many] friendships. Requirements for entry
popular misconceptions are held as to| are not wealth and social position, but

Dh, their purpose in University life. possession of qualities of loyalty,
_ ss ‘The average older n, not a/ manliness and ability to live in friendcollege graduate hisell has opinions} ship with one’s fellows. Their ideal

 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
 

of fraternities, if he knows anything
about them at all, not very

ear times regarded because he has
with college _life.

tuxedos pacing the elaborate halls of

is service, of one member to another,

compli-| and of all members to the university.
mentary to these bodies. His opinions} Position in University “‘politics’’ withare not as valuable as they are some-jout the other requisites mentioned,
7 had | carries no weight in considering prosmo practical experience whatsoever] pective members. A_ sense of rei His judgment is| sponsibility engendered in a student
- swayed by pictures of elaborate frat| by his acceptance by a fraternity enhouses as shown to him in “‘collegiate’’} ables him to do better work, scholasmotion pictures, so popular recently. | tically and in every other way, than he

__. These pictures are almost hopelessly | otherwise would. Finally the “high

exaggerated. The parent with a son| hat” attitude is non-existent in good
_——s at: college sees eleaborate homes shown | fraternities, and with them only are we
with the brothers all dressed up in their | concerned.

Fraternities at Dalhousie are in
_ their residences with the nonchalant|creasing. This need be no cause for
air of kings of the earth. Nota book,|alarm among the general

student

lad _ of course, is allowed in view. Perhaps| body or among members of the faculty,

     
   
 
   
   
 
 
 
  
 
 

ema

-___ Influenced by sights like these unsures Lo passed by lurid reading of frat life in
--—s current magazines the older person
| —s develops a severe antipathy to this
| -—__— type of college life. He frowns, then,
——en_= his college son’s requests to be
allowed to join a fraternity,
a: More important even than the older
_ persons viewpoint toward fraternities
is that taken by many of the students in

_ they are staging a party that night,|since fraternities established on a
_ and entertaining apparently the most} sound basis of service and loyalty are
undressed group of feminine possessors | an asset to any University large enough
of sex appeal one could gaze upon. | in numbers to support them.

 

Introducing
RED SPARROW

 

Red in his three years at Dalhousie

____ a college who have not been invited to| has never paid a cent of tuition, but

a _ become one of their membership.| hasn’t missed a game of football or

 
   
    
  
    
     
 

as one calculated to gain control for

his organ

place its members in control of college
cs ai
ae

‘Some of these students mistrust every| hockey or even a practice in these
move made by any fraternity member | branches of sport.

This seems to conflict with our boast

ization some particular place | that Dalhousie has not subsidized sport
of college acticity. ‘The membership of | but no—Red Sparrow is the hard
__ one of the Greek letter societies sym-| working utility man who has volunteer_____ bolize to some students only a Univer-| eq his services to the management of
sity ‘“‘political’’ party determined to] hockey and football.

Tho’ small in size and red-haired, he

-____ activities. Again, members of frater-|has taken an uncanny interest in our
_-——s* ities are sometimes regarded as “high | athletic teams and what Red doesn’t
__ hat,” seeking to segregate themselves] know about the individual players has

____ im an icy aloofness trom the supposed | not yet been disclosed.

    
  

tr. % common or run-of-mine devotees to
be

 
  
    

the

aS a
Bie

me
a

s ranks. Consequently,

His official duties require his keeping

higher education. The possession of|a close vigilance over the ‘‘flags” but
a a liberal allowance and engaging set of | Sparrow does not confine his activities
dansant manners is regarded by|to this phase of the game and very
as an “open sesame’’ to a frater-| frequently he may be seen calling the
: Owing to| captain or players aside to administer

_-these misconceptions, anti-fraternity | 4 word or two of timely advice.

     
  
   
   
    

cud feeling is developed in some quarters.

 

ie

nae,

— Dal at St. John
— (Continued from page 1) .
"the ball up the field but lost all they
rs aed when Clark fumbled a puht the
| team followed up hard to turn
_____ this into a fifty yard gain. The team
is me, - lost. a ‘chance to score when a
pass from Oyler who had raced 40 yards,
was fumbled close to the Trojan line.
‘ee The Saint John team carried the ball
ais.” toy the Tigers five yard line, and play

¥

  

P
ee
(i
Ny

  
 
   
  

   
  
  

Clark made a beautiful effort to score

The moral support given by Red to

| the players while on the field compares

favourably with that of the most
ardent Freshman. Every bad play
hurts him and a Dal try means more to
him than a new suit of clothes.

Cultivate the ‘Red’ enthusiasm
undergraduates and make Dalhousie
just a little more rickety-axy,

A Co-Ed Yell

 

. 20 remained in this vicinity for some time. | Dear Editor:

I think it is a sin and a shame that

a field goal. From 30 yardsout, and|the Dalhousie Co-eds haven’t a yell.

| _-—s with «this ended the Trojan attack.| [In practically every College in the
oo The Tigers started a march up the] world, the Coeds have a yell which

on
Coy =

i it a
|

belw the final whistle.

field and were in an excellent position|they can use on all occasions, but
_to score, when referee N. Ralston] Dalhousie is without one.
Dal trotted |the Shirreff Hall girls have a yell, but

"Tis true

Haag out the following players: Temple-| the Hall girls are only part of the Coeds.

Pee” 43 man, Cooper, Wooiner, Tanton, McKae
. Townshend, Grant, Scott,

Fredericton
(Continued from page 1)
bs: : rivals little peace. The attack ended

When we go to a game we just have

McNeil,| the privilege of yelling the general
or Davidson, Art Sutherland, Thompson, | yells, while the boys keep up a series of
ee Oyler, Drover, McLeod, H. Sutherland, | yells in Law, Engineering, Pine Hill,

etc. At the recent pep meeting where
all the yells were yelled, there was a
great lack in girls’ voices,

Girls! are we going to let the boys
get ahead of us like this? Let’s make
up a yell and yell like blazes.

Therefore, Mr. Editor, a co-ed yell

when Grant heeled a punt about 15] should be constituted at once and we
yard out and directly in front of the] should not let any college get ahead of

uprights. He scored the first points] Dal. even in the case of a yell.
; “of the game when he rang up three| with all the brains, there are at Dal
Surely

? by placing the ball squarely between | housie, we can have a co-ed yell.

. the posts, .
i For the first time in the clash,
Fredericton carried on a_ sustained
_ Offensive and kept the ball in Dal
__._ territory, but not threatening to score.
a They were aided by a free kick for an
| Offside high Fredericton had a chance
to tie the score in the same manner as
_ the Tigers gained theirs, but the
— placement kick was blocked by the
tf al forwards, After Fredericton had
he kept the play around the Dal 25 yard
P line for about seven or eight minutes
the Tigers began another advance into
enemy territory. Rev. Mr. Parker
* came once more to the aid of Fredericton and awarded them another free
hi which relieved the tension for

em,
_ Another short period of attack
brought Fredericton nearer to a score
pir. than they had been all afternoon, but a
couple of punts and some nice dribbling
|. brought the ball back to center. field
Ie aga From here some pretty com____ bined work carried the ball more than
a —» 26 ie and the attack continued

 
  
 
    
  
  
 
   
 
    
  
 
   
   
  
    
  
    
    
 

until Art Sutherland carried the ball
_ across the line to make the score read,
Dalhousie 6, Fredericton 0. The at
eae
i 
___ pass between the uprights.

aoe After: the ball had been placed in
| _—-~play again, Bud Steen got away for a
_ pretty run, but the Tigers were watch

 
 
    
    
 
  
  

| ss, fine. Dal dribbled to relieve, and

cart ed the ball once more into Fred
ee’ «erie titory, keeping it there until
stle sounded.

he final) ;
i ", ’
ic
a
=r y
ee ",
= , » 2

an

“land never slows down,

¥ ang him closely and he was brought A
>) > 2g Sim. close : problems; nobody weeps;
oe Pi in hard 15 yards from the Tiger | cheerful picture ff ek

Yours truly,
JEAN GARDNER,
Arts 32.

Notice.

A BAND PRACTICE will
be held To-Night in the

Munroe Room.

 

At the Casino

Nancy Carroll, Jack Oakie and Helen
Kane are to be seen and heard in the
Casino theatre’s feature picture this
Thursday, Friday and Saturday, “Sweetie,’’ a musical comedy in a prep school
setting, .However, “Sweetie” should
not be scaled down to the stature of
any prep school or college picture that
has gone before. It is a fast, fresh,
youthful picture. It’s in the spirit

tempt to convert failed by inches to | of “Good News" and the “varsity

”

drag.’” And in the joyous tempo of
College Humor Magazine, It starts
like the Twentieth Century Limited
It settles no
it’s the most
It’s what
the whole world wants to see, If
Ponce de Leon had jeen “Sweetie’’
he would never have gone hunting for
the fountain of youth! ~

me does not exist for any of the

 

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Sours Briefs |

-—— oO

SPORT COLUMN,

Excitement over the coming DalWanderers game this Saturday is at a
high pitch.

A win or draw for Dal will mean
that the Tigers have once again clinched
the Halifax City League.

A record crowd will undoubtedly
be on hand.

Wanderers (and Gee Ahearn) are
ee sure “The Reds’ will carry the
y:

 

Dal will be weakened by the absence
of her stellar back-field man, Eddie
Ross.

Charlie Jones has been gallantly
carrying on during this season with a
very painful leg, although one would
never guess it from the way he has been
playing this season!

 

"Henry Townsend has been out of
the game through injuries for the past
week.

 

 

The Services sprung a great surprise
when they trounced Acadia 7-0 on

Thursday. It wasn’t a bit of luck,
it wasa clear cut win. Congratulations
Services!

Taking a glance at the Dal Intermediates should make fellow Dalhousians proud of their prospective
rugbyists. Five wins and no _ loses
is a pretty good record.

Oh, yes—and the Intermediates
swamped Tech 10-0 about two weeks
ago in an exhibition game.

Basketball practises are now in full
swing, and plenty of likely looking
material appears to be available.

A long trip for the basketball team
has been rumoured.

Biology Club
Important Notice

The next meeting will take
place on Wednesday, Nov.
20th, at 8 o’clock. Prof.
James Nelson Gowanlock
will speak on “Birds in
Time, Space and Biology.”’
Meeting open to everyone.

GARRICK

THIS WEEK
THE

Edna Preston Players
IN THE MUSICAL HIT

“BUDDIES”

NEXT WEEK
‘““FAREWELL WEEK ’

“She Walked
in Her Sleep.”

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THURS. FRI. SAT.

“THE DRAKE CASE”

100% Talking
A Sensational Murder Trial
with an All Star Cast

Silent News Comedy

 

 

MACLEop, BALCOM

LIMITED

34 Morris Street
174 Spring Garden Rd
203 Young Street
Cor. Quinpool Road
and Oxford Street
and Bedford

 

WINNERS FROM THE

START

For 60 years the REACH Trade

Mark on Sporting Goods has been

a mark of perfection. No matter

what your favorite sport may be,

we can supply you with equipment

that will help ln play the game
at’s in you.

CRAGG BROS. CO.,

Limited
Hardware and Sporting Goods

HALIFAX, N. S.

with the best t

ORPHEUS THEATRE.

 
  
    
   
  
  
  
  
  

     
   
   
   
 
  
 

TT
i RR A

Committee for
Dance Appointed

—=<

A meeting of the Dalhousie Dental
Society was held on Thursday, Oct.
24th., in the Forrest Building, with
Omar C,. Taylor, vice-President in the
chair,

The chief business of the Society was
that of the Annual Dental Dance.
The members decided to hold their
dance in the Dal Gymnasium on Nov.
15th, a date which has been agreed to
by the Student’s Council.

A Dance Committee was elected,
one member from each year:

Fourth year—Hillard Clark.

Third year—Frank Duxbury.

Second year—Erwin Taylor.

First year—‘Hum” Harris.

After the regu:ar business of the
meeting had been concluded, the
meeting adjourned.

One Aspect of
Co-Education

Oberlin, O—(IP)—Co-education as
an American college institution began
here 98 years ago, but it is difficult for
Albert Brown, Oberlin College freshman, from Jackson, Mich., to realizeit.

In 1848, ten years after Oberlin
College was formed and began admitting women students with the
men, Brown’s great-grandfather met
his great-grandmother here.

All four of Brown’ sgrandpartents
were Oberlin students, their marriages
climaxing college romances.

Albert's father likewise found

 

his

mother at Oberlin, and three of his
aunts met their future husbands in the
student body here,

Although Freshman Brown hesitates
to commit himself, he declares after
looking around that he is not decided
as yet to let the tradition drop.

 

Get Your
Hair Cut

Where you are assured of
expert and experienced service. In other words go to

Shield’s Barber Shops

(Two Shops)

41 Sackville St. and Roy Bldg.
Our Roy Building shop will
appeal to the ladies of Shirriff Hall. Quiet and secluded. Take elevator to top
floor. Marcel, Manicure,
Shampoo, Finger Wave, etc.
by lady operator.

Phone S448 for appointment.

Open Saturday evenings.

Greeting Cards
Programmes
Invitations
Letter Heads
Envelopes, etc.
From

NOVA PRINT, LTD

227-229 HOLLIS STREET

are delivered

WHEN PROMISED

 

   

MON. TUES WED. NEXT WEEK
“ Charming Sinners ”

WITH

Ruth Chatterton, Clive

Brooks, William Powell

and Mary Nowlan.°. °
A Paramount Picture

NEWS ~ COMEDY

 

 

 

If You Want to See Well
SEE WALLACE

Optometrist and Optician
Y. M. C. A. Blbg. Halifax, N.S.

 

 

   
  

The
Halifax Chronicle

AND

The
Halifax Daily Star

   
 
   
    
 
 
  
    
   
  
   
   
    

     
 

    
    
  
 

   

The
fastest growing
newspapers in

Nova Scotia

 

¢T. EATO

 

- November 14th, 1929

CASINO

THIS WEEK
Mon - Tue - Wed

Billie Dove

“Her Private Life”
ALL TALKING

Thur - Fri - Sat

Campus Capers

with
Nancy Carroll Jack Oakie
Helen Kane ~~

EATON’S

Lord Nelson
Hotel

(The Social Center)

The Ideal Atmosphere for
your Saturday Evening
Dance, or at any other time
for your Bridge parties,
Dinners, Dances, Etc. : :

AFTERNOON TEA,

Orchestra—4.30 to 5.30

SUNDAY CONCERT

9 to 10 p. m.

 

   

   
 

X flu way

44, ue
| ‘ ,

 

 

i Examples of Our
Fine
Fur Coats

for

Fall and Winter Wear

Skillfully selected pelts, expertly matched and
fashioned into suburb garments by master furriers
your inspection of our fur coats will be worth while

 

 

Hudson Seal Coats with self trimming, $225.00 to
$425.00

Hudson Seal Coats with Sable Trimming, $250.00 to
$335.00.

Golden Brown Seal Coats, $595.00.

European Beaver Coats, $150.00.

Pessian Lamb Coats with collar and cuff of Kolinsky
fur, $425.00.

Pessian Lamb Coat with sable collar and cuffs, $265.00.

Silver and Dark Muskrat Coats with Johnie collars of
darker muskrat, $125.00 to $195.00.

Beaverine Coats, $75.00.

Grey Goat Coats, $45.00.

Canadian Racoon Coat, $425.00.

Sizes from 14 to 44. See them in the Department

Eaton’s Third Floor.

i

Es

oO
LIMITED

 

   
   
 
 
 
   
   
    
 
    
  
  
    
   
  
   
    
    
 
    
    
  
  
   
   
   
   
  
   
  
   
   
   
   
   
 
   
   
   
       
  
 
  
   
  
     
      
    
      

  
  
  
   
   
   
    
    
  
   
  

 
  
 

     

 
   

   

      
   
   
   
 
  
 
  

      
   
   
   
