  
  

      
 
 

  
      
   

F

ee
Py

sie
rd
,

Pa,

ant
P }
ir

a

‘&

FP swit
+

VJ
+

  

aT
ae”
i
me
a ”


  
 

—
P =

negative.

7
_

 

 

_ Intercollegiate Team

is Composed of Three
| Veteran Debaters

 

Cooper, Pattilloand MacDonald selected for team to
_,. debate with University of New Brunswick

The 1930 Intercollegiate Debating

Team has been announced by the

Intercollegiate Selection Committee,
and Sodaies is pleased to present to
readers one of, if not the strongest,
in recent years. THREE FORMER
SENIOR DEBATERS guarantee this
statement.
A. GORDON COOPER, Commerce
81, (LEADER).

ARTHUR S. PATTILLO, Arts ’81.

THOMAS D. MacDONALD, Arts
"31.

This strong combination will journey

it _ to Fredericton, N. B., late in February

to meet the University of New Brunswick. The resolution is “THAT IN

THE INTERESTS OF SOCIETY
- THE, ~

TRUTHS OF HISTORY

SHOULD SOMETIMES BE SUP
~ PRESSED,” of which Dal upholds the

U.N. B. notified us of their
selection last week, after eight weeks.,
A. GORDON COOPER, Halifax

, aes A, , ,
om 2 PON enied yene Comunerce, graduated from

  

 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
   
 

' years later entered Dal.
Phi Kappa Pi, second team_ rugby

K. C. S., Windsor, in 1925, and two
Secretary of

player, President of Commerce Society,
and prominent in Class ‘31. Last
~March Cooper journeyed to St. John’s,
Nfid., with Ernest Howse and W. H.
Jost, to meet the M.C.L. 1. On that
occasion the team lost the judges’
decision but captured an_ unofficial
majority of the audience in the Old
Colony. Cooper’s ability is unques
late in February

 

Don’t Forget

Dal and Tech officially open the
Halifax City Basketball League at
8 o’clock Saturday evening at_ the
Y. M. C. A. As stated in a former
issue of the Gazette, your support is
heartily solicited, as a win for Dal
will not only inspire the team with the
real ‘‘conquering  spirit’’ but also
place the Tigers on the road to the
League Championship—which they are
out to win! A record crowd is expected
so be on hand early in order to assure
yourself of a good seat for the opening
game.

Girls Trials to
Be Held Soon

The men’s debating trials are a
thing of the past. The women’s are a
thing of the future.

U. N. B. have sent the subject of the
debate to Dalhousie, and we girls are
going to uphold the negative side of
the proposition, “Resolved that women
higher education be given in institutions limited to women alone.’’ We
hope that lots of girls will turn out for

tionable, and no better choice could) the trials, which are going to be held

have been made. Forceful and decisive, with a clear, ringing voice, a
clever thinker—he will undoubtedly
lead his 1980 team to victory in Fredericton.

ARTHUR S. PATTILLO, Bridgewater, third year Arts, graduated from
K. C. S. in 1927.

during the first week of February, and
help make a team which will prove a
worthy match to the one coming here,

We have promise of good material
this year, namely, Gertrude Hemphill
and Lillian Sadler of last year’s Inter‘collegiate team, and Mary Crocker,

In 1927 captured| who debated with John MacDonald,

2nd place in Nova Scotia in the Inter-}and won the Bennett Shield. But we

national Oratorical Contest, and won
Dimock Medal at King’s Collegiate.
Has had a brilliant scholastic record

though school and college, winning | Jean,

three scholarships to date. Last year
in residence at King’s was Conservative
leader in Mock Parliament. Last
March, together with M. B. MacKinnon, represented Dal in debate with
team from British Columbia and
Alberta, then touring Canada from
coast to coast. Dal can count on
Pattillo for much in this year’s conflict. His name has two “T’s’” but
no one is willing to believe it.

TOM MacDONALD, Arts '31, “another Pictou County man.” Came
from Stellarton in ‘28, and while still
a freshie-soph, led the Inter collegiate
Team which met King's University in
March. Has taught school in N. S.
and had much debating experience
before entering college. A forcetul
speaker, especially when heated in
rebuttal, his is an excellent choice.

At this early date Dal can boast of
teams of which she may well be proud.
Three juniors to meet U. N. B. all of

oy : them “old’’ men, and two clever
____ thinkers to meet the U. S. represen..-  ‘tatives, are a group well worthy of

consideration.

want more girl, to turn out, and make
a try for the team. All those who
wish to enter, must give their names to
Leslie, Shirreff Hall, before

Jan. 25th.
D. M., Arts ’31.

rs

B. C. Alumni
Hold Dinner

 

Word has been received at Dalhousie
University that the British Columbia
branch of the Alumni Association held
its annual dinner in Vancouver on the
evening of December 6th. This flourisning offshoot from the parent body
was reorganized as a social club about
three years ago and since its formation
the club has held several delightful
social gatherings as well as an annual
dinner in the fall of each year.

Well known Dalhousians in Vancouver include Chief Justice Aulay
Morrison, Professor D. C. Harvey, Dr.
Sedgewick, Professor E. H. Archibald,
all of the University of British Columbia Frank R. Archibald, Oe ic) bah
Anthony and many others.

 

Greene and MacDonald to
Debate Against U. S. A. Team

 

Sodales Debating Society announces

= the two men’s Senior Debating Teams
in this issue of the Gazette.

 
   
 
 
  
  
 
  
 

Cyril J. Greene, Law '31, member
of last year’s Intercollegiate debating
trio, and John A. MacDonald,
Arts ‘81, have been announced as the
tei chosen by the Intercollegiate
Selection Committee to meet two

   

ee aited States Debaters here on Feb
_ ruary 10th, .

© The Resolution selected by them is:
A

ILVED THAT THE BRITISH
MPIRE IS IN A GRAVE DANGER
DISINTEGRATION.” ___Dalie will support the negative.

ril Greene entered Dal in the fall
i ee ee oe and morial College, t. John’s, Nfld.
home is Piacente, Nfld. Second

     
  

collegiate team last year which met
King’s. Will now lead this team
against the American invaders. Greene’s
humorous style, good delivery, combined with a mind quick to think on
his feet, will go far in helping his team.

Johw A. Y. MacDonald, Arts '31,
of Sydney, supports Greene. John
entered Dal in ’28 also, from Sydney
Academy, with a high scholastic standing, which he has retained here. Last

ear represented the freshmen in the
Benner Cup series, and this year, the
juniors. Together with Mary Crocker,
the pair were able to retain the Bennett
Shield for ’81 by brilliant debating.
With Greene we may expect another
brilliant showing. Two such Islanders
might do almost.anything when they

, member of the Dal Inter-get together!

a ae

HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA, JANUARY 17rx, 19380.

 

- DEBATING TEAMS ARE ANNOUNCED Keen

Will Meet U. S. A. Team

John A, Y. MacDonald and Cyril’J. Greene who have been chosen
to represent Dalhousie against the American debating team
here on February 10th.

 

Hockey Squad to Meet
Mount Allison Jan. 27th.

Band and cheer leaders will be on hand to aid
locals in opening game of season

 

 

A Timely
Complaint

 

We are perfectly delighted with the
prompt and effectual action taken by
the Authorities in the matter of drinking-founts. So much so that we are
made bold to plead for another reform,
that is absolutely necessary, not for
our comfort alone, but for our very
existence. Really, it is a nine-days
wonder that so tar no one, either professor or student, has been killed on that
curving driveway leading beneath the
spreading chestnut-trees, or whatever
kind of trees they are, to the main
campus, The danger of walking in
the road is bad enough in fine weather
when, by due precautions we can manage to get down into ye little ditches
that fringe the road, but, when there
is a driving storm, when we have all
we can do to keep out feet rooted to
the slush when the wind is trying to
sweep us off the face of the earth, then,
it is next to impossible to make any
headway when cars are passing. The
little ditches are running streams, the
banks are slippery, so that if we crawl
down, to avoid being killed, we cannot
possibly regain the road way without
considerable struggle, even sometimes
resorting to all tours. And there is
nothing so harmful to the mirale of a
university as the spectalce of teachers
or pupils clmbing out of the ditches by
the highway.

I am here only stressing the dangers
of our driveway as it as at present, not
mention the discomforts of having to
to break off a conversation by forced
Indian file, nor the nandicaps in the
way of those hastening to nine o’clock
classes, nor the delectable showerbaths enjoyed by us as tne cars speed
by. If it were only a question of
discomfort, we would grin and bear
it, but, I repeat, it is a question of the
safety of life, and it concerns everybody.
Surely it would not spoil that pictures
And now comes the startling news
from the hockey moguls that Dal will
officially open her 29-30 season with an
attempt to down the well known Mount
Allison sextette at the Forum on Monday, January 27th. Plans have already been formulated to stage a real
Dal night on this date. Sina Singer
and his band, cheer leaders, faculty,
and all that tends to comprise a Tiger
occasion.

The fact that Mount Allison have for
years held the enviable reputation of
being one of the most brilliant hockey
aggregations to be found in any Eastern
University and also that Dal, for the
present season at least, is an “unknown
quantity” should make the game one
of the most exciting in years,

Manager Harvie Sutherland and Fat
McKenzie feel confident that they will
place a team on the ice which will not
only agreeably surprise all, but even
‘bring home the bacon.’’ However,
whether this is so or not will only be
settled when the boys cross sticks with
the Mounties.

The old cry of ‘‘support your team’’
may well be applied to hockey as well |
as basketball, football, etc.—one thing
certain, your support and encouragement is certainly deserved, and why not
go to the Forum on the 27th with the
idea that Dal will have a winning team. |
You may of course, be disappointed, |
but if you are, you can at least come
home with the feeling that you have
done your part. On the other hand
you may be agreeably surprised, and
if so, well—there’s an evening well
spent,

_ Among the new men showing promising form are—

C. Stanfield, Taylor, W. McDonald,
Ken Purtill, Archibald, while, many of
last year’s squad are as enthusiastic as
ever.

 

que driveway to build a sidewalk along
the edges of it.

Another thing. When will our City
Fathers fix that bit of side-walk from
Lemarchant St. corner to the Studley
Gates?

A. M. P.

 

DALHOUSIANS

Tomorrow night the Dalhousie Hoopsters meet the
Nova Scotia Techinical College at the Y, M. C. A. gym
nasium.

On Tuesday they will play Acadia at the Studley
Gymnasium at noon in what promises to be the best game

of the season.

On Monday evening, January 27th., the Dalhousie
Hockey squad vs Mount Allison at the Forum. The
admission will be nil for students and the game will be
followed by a two hour skating period.

KEEP THESE DATES OPEN

own,


Battle

THE OLDEST
COLLEGE PAPER
IN AMERICA

    

No. 18

DAL VS. ACADIA ON TUESDAY NEXT

Assured When

Old Rivals Meet

 

Support of student body expected—Local team
in splendid condition

 

Hither and
_ Thither

By Dreamer.

There is a rumour floating around
the university that a well known instructor at the college, a man noted for
nis efforts to make a hit with the
young ladies in tne lab classes, wrote a
letter which appeared in tne Gazette
a few issues ago concerning disgraceful
actions which Dal students are said
to be indulging in on the campus. Of
course this is only a rumour and there
may not be an atom of truth in it.
They say the motive was jealousy.
1 wonder?

Rumour is funny, the way that it
attacks everything, even the most
unlikely. We hear that a young first
year law student—he is very clever
and incidentally teaches too, is the
‘‘Petting- Patty” of the last issue.
The object of tne epistle was defence
they say and it sounds probable coming
as it does from a rising young lawyer.
1 have often heard that you cannot
judge by appearance, but I ask you,
who would have suspected ?

We understand that class '33 called
a meeting the other day to be addressed
by their worthy representative on the
council And would you believe it—
he must have thought that Murray
MacNeill had taken a vacation or was
sick. Anyway he gave them some
fatherly advice about studying. Of
course we knew that he was quite
serious with a certain young lady but
who. thought that he had gone so far
that he would pick on the poor freshmen to brush up on his fatnerly talks
so that in future years he would be
ade pt.

The question of having a Dal night
at-the forum has been brought up and
rightly so. In the last two years, since
the forum opened, I do not think that
we have had any more than five rink
nights and then haif the crowd were
not Dal students. One chap, skating
with a pretty pick-up, said “Are ycu

Dai?’ The answer came back, ‘‘No,
l am Woolwortns.” This is a true
story. But it should not be, Dal

rink night are tor Dal students and a
few of their personal friends—not the
city.

Another thing might be said about
Skating night at the forum. Why
should not Dal have a regular night,
Say every two weeks. The other
Maritime colleges have rinks of their
Failing that we should at least
have more than three Dal nights a
year. Don’t you think so? What is
the use of carrying a surplus over from
year to year.

At the freshman ball last
everyone was amazed at the large
number of outsiders. Dal dances are
always delightful and we cannot blame
outsiders for wanting to attend, Also
they are a great help financially, but
yet one cannot help thinking that too
great an influx of outsiders is undersirable—something which is to be shunned

week

Continued on page 4

Dalhousians will have an opportunity of seeing their basketball team
match wits and brawn against Acadia
University’s representatives at Studley
Gymn, on Tuesday, January 2lst.
This announcement came as a very
pleasant surprise to all enthusiasts of
the popular pastime, as for many
years the two colleges have been the
keenest of rivals.

Last year, Acadia, with one of the
best aggregation of hoopsters in Eastern Canada, forced Dal to bow to a
better team, although the Tigers were
far from outplayed. This year however, a change for the better seems
apparent insofar as Dal is concerned.
What with such men as Don MacRae,
Big Jim McLeod, S. Fairstein, H.
Davidson, A. Nickerson, J. R. McClellan, A. Brittain, C. Anderson, H.
Handler, Vic Regan and Gordon
MacOdrum, everyone is looking forward to one of the best teams in many
years,

Acadia will have such men as Matthews, Howie Ryan, Dunc McKenzie,
all well known at Studley as star athletes, and the very fact that these men,
who made such a name for themselves
in tootball, will be with Acadia, should
attract the attention of one and all.

To have a winning basketball team
should be the ambition of every true
Dalhousian. Only by supporting your
team can this be brought about, and
in fairness to those who have practised
so strenuously to put Dal ‘‘on the map,”
we, one and all, should help cheer the
boys to a clean cut win over their old
rivals, Acadia.

Remember the date—12.15 p. m.,
Tuesday, January 21st. at the Dal
Gym.

Grad. Finds Old
English | MSS.

Interest in literary circles has been
aroused lately by the discovery of a new
MSS. of the Chest.r plays—a cycle of

Miracle” plays acted in Chester, which
was a dramatic centre at the end of the
16th and beginning of the 17th. century.
The discoverer of this new play is F,
Millet Salter, a graduate of Dathousie
in Arts, 1916. Mr. Salter served with
the Canadian Artillery during the War,
and since then has taught for some time
in the University of Alberta. He has
been working with Professor J. M.
Manley of Cnicago, on the texts of
Chaucer, and they are now working
together in London. Mr, Salter is
also a student in Skelton—whosc snor
measures’ so popular with the lower
classes at the beginning of the 1létt
century, may be looked upon as one
direct descendant of the Anglo-Saxoh
rhythms,

—_— —_—

Apple Juice Banned.—‘‘A hard
cider drink often takes reason away,’
is the slogan adopted by the New York
State W. C. T. U. in an educational
campaign to teach citizens the evils
of drinking apple juice.

 

Student Activities
to be Broadcasted

 

_ Dalhousie University student
ties on the air!

This was the announcement made
near the close of the fall term by the
University autnorities, which we received with no small degree of enthusiasm.,

Two years ago the University organized a series of Science lectures over
C, H. N. S., Halifax, given by variou
members of the Faculty. Their success was.so pronounced that last winter
the experiment was extended to include speakers from every department
of the College, including members of
the. Board of Governors. Letters of
appreciation were received from Dal
grads and friends all over the Maritimes, Ontario, and parts of the Eastern States. These talks lasted ten or

activie

fifteen minutes, and were chiefly concerned with the subject-matter of the
curriculum, or scholarship,

Future Hopes,

This year it is the plan of the University Radio Extension Committee
to broadcast student activities also,
believing that there are a very great
number within hearing distance of
the local Station C. H. N. S., who
would still like to enjoy a Glee Club
programme, possibly a hockey game,
a Sodales meeting, or other activity,

“We want our many friends and wellwishers to realize that Dalhousie is
something more than an aggregate of
men and women who give. and receive
instruction in certain branches of

Continued on page 4.

  

 
    
 
 
 
  
   
   
  
  
   
  
  
 
    
        

7 mb a abe ae ae E = _— .
"Unk. f ack mm : - : eee ‘ Sa 7 .
a a , > 2

   
     
     
    
     
      
  
   
   
   
   
    
      
     
 

 
       

:. Se hat oe Tice gos : ret gh ;
. ¥ pe Founded 1869. “The Oldest College Paper in America.”
BP pen. or sttdiite, 3) ) Managing Editor. ‘
Sa take - . ‘< Bo : RALPH Ss. MORTON, B. A.
Sac Be P Se Phone Sac. 304,
| News Editors.
bata: ARTHUR PATILLO
a ape VANCE FRASER
i DORIS MARGESON
_ Society and GiriSport Sport Baie.
HELEN 6. WILLIAMS, P. A. OYLER.
a des Ae a Associate Editors.
: mager, | Asst. Business Manager.
Ap, =. % J. R. DONAHUE.
Lam. = Phone Sac. 4086].

Subscription Rate $1.50 per year.
Gazette Phone Sack. 4866.

Rica, 4% <. SAFINE MIND.
a Discussing the essential characteristics for a sound mind
Glenn Frank, one of the foremost editorial writers of today, gives
is readers the following splendid advice which should be of special
terest to all undergraduates ——

4
=
|
an

», =
a em ‘
_-___- A good mechanic studies the tools of his trade continuously
pied eg nd critically. The better he knows his tools, the better he can
use his tools. He knows that good craftsmanship is impossible
~ unless he keeps his tools adjusted to his tasks.
Our brain is, of course, the major tool we bring to the task of
living. Like good mechanics, we profit from keeping our bra ns
a inder continuous and critical study. As a sort of primer to guide
ai us in such a study of our own minds, I suggest that a first-class
~~) mind bears these four marks:
First, humility A first-class mind is never cocksure; it is
always willing to admit that it may be wrong; it is never afraid to
___ say that it does not know; it does not specialize in closed questions:
Reha

i
a

  
   
  
  
   
    
   

1 questions are open questions to it; it is always ready, in the
ES pp sence of new know'edge os fresh challenges, to question the
mee its earlier observations and the sanity of its earlier

: SO oe ee
Ss _ soundness of
es _ conclusions.

Second, curiosity. A first-class mind is never satisfied with
surface observations; when, in its humility, it has admitted that
_ the re
ei

  
   
 
 
   
   
 
  
 
    
 
    
  
  
  
      
  
  
   
      
    
  
  
   
   
    
     
          
  
  
  
 
   
     
 
 
   
  
  

ol

‘re is a question to be considered, it turns a restless and ruthless
uriosity on the question; it is never satished with a sweeping
- judgment; it ferrets out every detail and tries to see just what
earing each detail has on the whole question.

- Third, courage. A first-class mind is marked by a subtle
_ blending of courage and imagination, the result of which is that
it takes the results of its analysis of a problem it has worked over
and puts these results into various new combinations in an effort
_ to find some new and better theory for action; it is never afraid to
- set up a tentative new theory of action; it is willing to follow a new
idea, if it is sound, even if it upsets former notions and former ways
of doing things.

yx Fourth, responsibility. A first-class mind has a sense of

responsibility in handling its new theories; it puts them through
“7 all sorts of tests to prove both their logical soundness and their
G practical utility. 
wares’ «> :

a: i
oe
o

.

Ce 7 ETC

The practical fruits of the intellectual virtues are obvious:

_ Humility makes for openmindedness. Curiosity makes for care
-___. ful analysis. Courage makes for creativeness in blazing new trails.
__- Responsibility makes for reliability in action.—-Glenn Frank.
ee ey S37 ;

THE STUDENT AND BUSINESS.

is _ One of the most important questions facing the college under
a * ;
-_—._- graduate of today who contemplates a business career after leaving
re eateries is what his reception will be by the world of commerce. Will he be welcomed, and given an opportunity of proving
that his college education has a dollars and cents value to his employer or will he be given merely a job, with no regard paid to the
facet that he has spent four or more years of his time as well as much
money in an endeavor to provide himself with a preparation that
_-—-will enable him to play a leading part in the business life of the
country? Experiences of some recent graduates in Commerce
_ * have been disappointing. They have been forced to go to Upper
-__ Canada to obtain salaries above those of office boys. Even in the
offices where they have obtained employment in large cities in
an dh ey and Ontario no regard has been given to the fact that they
should be men worth developing as quickly as possible for future
____ responsible positions. This situation is cne to be regretted. Bus--_ iness men, we believe,are overlooking an opportunity for trained
a ‘men, who in the long run will prove of superior capabilities to
-___ boys with merely a High School education or its-equivalent. Of
course, some men with inferior education will make up for this loss
_, | by exceptional native ability, and will outdistance the college
men of mediocre intelligence. But, on the average, the college
ue men has an education and an all-round development that will

“= =

Pf.
=~

ed

i

yr

po

1
y,

place him ahead of those men without that asset. College men must,
____ however, be given at least the opportunity to prove that they are

valuable in responsible positions. Some business firms today are

fi a

        
  
  
 
 
 
      
   
 
  
   
   
 
 
  
   
  
   
    
  
 
   

.
}

‘im

hot providing this opportunity, but are placing the University
“sD _ graduates in mere jobs of routine drudgery, not commensurate
with their abilities, and offering little or no opportunities for worth
while advancement. 
_ The above does not apply, however, to all business firms, some
| whom are profiting by the quick development of college men
| they have placed on their staff. The Canadian chartered
have always been regarded as institutions where superior

tional advantages have received no consideration in the
r of employment or preferment. But there has been a
tendency to recognize special qualifications of University
es cularly in analytical and statistical departments of
s. An announcement of great interest was made
appointment of Mr. Graham F. Towers to the very
osition of Chief Inspector of the branches of The Royal
Canada. Mr. Towers is an honor graduate of McGill
in Political Economy. He is still in his early thirties,

     
   

wel ~—
~ us

ata

oe oe ae

- = ~ ~~
al ff i. :
i ¥ ars, eee:

2 ae _ 4

ane

+ +“e>

——————

b

_ —

ae
v P ae

5

 

Tn ns
——-- === Seniesa =

ee | ;
DALHOUSIE GAZETTE ne

 

« The Play’s The Thing’’

Gazette Feature Writer in favour of Convocation Play

 

Most of us seem to have the idea
that the entire end and object of a
Convocation Play is to give a trip to
the performers, and that if the finances
“break even,’’ or produce a surplus

_|to swell the Council Funds, the thing

nas been a success, This idea is about
as far astray as the man who thought
that a major fault was a pluck in
Geology I.

The Convocation Play is far more
important than a mere traveling Glee
Club Show. It is a performance that
is representative of the University as
a whole, as well as of the Training
received there. It goes the round of
the larger country towns, and is presented before audiences that are, for
the most part, composed of college
students of a former generation, and
of the parents and friends of presentday Dalhousians, togetner with a
number of people who are decidedly
opposed to college ways and means,

Such an audience expects a performance that is able to hold its own
against the criticism which is bound to
be scored against it. The men of a
former day, whether that day is five
or fifty years back, want to judge for
themselves whether college is a beneficial now as it. was then, in the‘‘Good
Old Days.’’ Parents and relatives
who are spending money, pérhaps at
the cost of great sacrifice to themselves,
on a collegeeducation for their boy or
girl, want to see with tneir own eyes
a sample of university activity. They
are so proud of sons and daughters who
do well, that tney are delighted when
the play arrives, and they can point to
it and say: “‘That’s just the sort of
thing that James or Mary is interested
in down there in Halifax!"’ As tor the
people who are prejudiced against
colleges, they are given an opportunity
to test their theories, to find out the

 

Christian Student Conference Proved
to be Great Success

Many Interesting Speeches Heard—Discussions
Well Worth While Says Writer
By ELLA WALLACE JACKSON

“To enlarge our horizons, become
more deeply aware ot life’s meaning and
discover the means to tullest selfrealization.” :

For some time before Christmas we
were reminded by posters that a
combination S. C. A. and S. V. M. conference was to be held in Sackville at
Mount Allison University. That conference has come and gone, but those
of us who were fortunate enough to attend still feel the results of the stimulus
received,

We were entertained at the Ladies’
College, our host and hostess being
Professor and Mrs. Ross, who welcomed
us most cordially. Although the conference was essentially for Maritime
students and though the representatives were chiefly from U. N. B., Prince
of Wales, Dalhousie, Acadia and
Mount Allison, McGill was represented
as was Toronto University. Beside
the four chief leaders Mrs. Kim from
Korea, Dr. Rose, Dr. Curry and Mr.
C. F. Andrews, Mr. Murray Brooks,
general secretary of the S. C. A., Mr.
Beaton, West China and Canadian
Secretary of the S. V. M., Miss Gertrude Rutherford were present. Dr.
Patterson, President of Acadia University delivered a very interesting address at one of the evening meetings.

No one could be more charming than
Mrs. Induk Kim of Korea. In the
two talks sne gave, she told in an unforgettable way of her early life; of
her Confucianist father and of her
mother who was an ardent spirit
worshipper; of that mother’s change to
a belief in Christ after the death of
father and brother. She told, too,
of how she masqueraded as a boy
until she was eleven years old in order
to enter a school; of her later education
in a girls’ school by that time established, of imprisonment in the cause of
Korea. Concerning her personal suffering she spoke with the utmost simplicity and léft with herfhearers taoughts
that religion to her meant “I in God and
God in me.’’ Very vividly she sketched the change in Korea since Christ
had been brought. For Korea oppressed by Japan to an extent not
conceived of, by us, there is, she declared, one star in the dark cloud overhanging—Jesus. The coming of Jesus
to Korea has meant a great improvement in the physical life ot the people
—healthier bodies and elimination of
disease; socially it has meant the displacement of polygamy by monogamy,
free choice in marriage, social intermingling of the sexes; and econimically
it has meant a great step forward in
propserity.

Mr. Andrews spoke on the subject

with only nine years service in the institution behind him. This
represents, in the opinion of commentators on the apppointment,
a victory for the college trained men who thus used his training at
McGill to achieve a very important position in a very few years.
We may expect to see, now that Bank positions are open to college

men, similar occurences.

_ Contrary to opinions held by many ill informed people, the
University graduate seeking to carve for himself a niche in Canadian business life, is not looking for a sinecure.
an opportunity to show that his four years in college have not been
wasted. He believes that he has something of value to sell to
business employer in a mind trained to think, and to grasp thoroughly and quick y the elements of a situation.
received?) We claim that they should be given every encouragement and every chance to prove themselves

trust.
cases, will make good.

If given this opportunity they, in the great majority of
G.

Will the Students
Council Deal
With This?

Short Skirt Edict?

 

interests of college students, and to
judge whether or not these are really
the rah-rah do-nothings that dance on
the screen of College Movies or grin
from the pages of popular magazines.

It is easily seen that there is quite
a high standard set, and the Convocation Play is expected to live up to
public demand. Some may argue
that a play is only a play, and should
not be performed for the mental
nourishment of the audience. This is
only shelving the naked fact that the
prestige of the college is carried along
as an additional burden to the players,
and they cannot throwit off. Of course
it should be taken as a compliment
that something better than the average
domestic comedy or burlesque skit is
expected of the College Dramatic
Artists. The people want something
different from the amateur productions, however good these may be,
staged at intervals by the Young Folks’
Association, or by Sunday School
Classes. They wish for something
that smacks of cities, something with
the merest suggestion of the flavour of
sophistication. And yet this alluring
flavour must not be too pronounced,
or the players will be condemned for
“Trying to be clever."’

  
  
 

 

Are short skirts doomedlong time they have been getting
shorter and shorter and we had feared

away. But now comes the blow—we
are to have the old street cleaners back
again with all the bustle and noise
of by gone days. Will collegians
stand for this—what do you say Mr.
Douhousian— Surely the male members of our population have a right to
voice their approval or protest.

The Dalhousie Gazette always ready
to give light on problems of the day
opens its columns to controversy on this
all important subject. Long skirts—
to see or not to see—that is the question

The following news feature supplied
us through the Intercollegiate Press,
of which we are members will be read
with interest by all Dalhousians, male
and female;

New York—(IP)—Not bad looking,
Ee knee of the average Hunter College

irl.

i Students at the college admit this.
That is why 70 per cent of the Hunter
College students favor short skirts.

Ruth Gernsheimer and Lillian Friedman, advocates of the short skirt
agreed,

“The average female leg is too prety
to hide.”

Ethel Leventhal, president of the
Pan-Hellenic council at Hunter, representing the Sorority girls said:

I’ve yet to see a short girl who can
gracefully wear a long skirt.”

Lola Zoller, a student with an cye
to utility as well as beauty, remarked:

“T feel manacled in long skirts. |
couldn’t run in them. Wearing them
how could I get to school on time?”

Catherine Amgus, president of the
dance club, wanted to know:

“How could I wear a long dress
swooping out of a raccoon coat—”

The several reasons given by the girls
favoring short skirts were:

Greater freedom and comfort, chance

If these conditions are taken into the
bargain with the conditions imposed
by cast, time, settings, and tne hundred
and one things to be considered when a
Convocation Play is chosen, and the
piece decided upon satisfies these
demands as far-as possible, then the
tour of the Play will be assured of the
success it really deserves, the number
of Dalhousie’s faithful friends will be
increased all over the province, and
glad will be the heart of him who counts
the cash.

A. M. P.

to display legs, look better, more
economical, psychological effect on
wearer.

Reasons given by those favoring the
long skirts were:

Feminity, vogue, slenderizing, emphasize individuality, old-fashioned,
“father’s in the clothing line.”

 

nearest his heart—India and _ the.
relation .between East and West,
showing them to be complementary to
each other not self-sufficient units
He conducted a study group which
met every afternoon for an hour, and
also gave two addresses to the whole
conference. The East, he said finds
in Jesus the one ideal that can be
worshipped. It is finding in Christ’s
character sides never seen by the West,
sides of its own character at its best.
The West has not exhausted tne Christ,
and not until both West and East
contribute their separate conceptions of
Him, will He be seen in a true and
complete fulness. In the West there
is the danger of crowding life with
superfluities, a stressing of the material
rather than of the spiritual life. To
the East the West can give, however,
the idea of the oneness of humanity in
God, the development of the individual
as himself and not as the part of a
system, and what Tagore himself has
called practical philantrophy. The
race question was the most important,
centre of interest in the afternoon
group meeting.

The interest of Dr. Rose, better
known as “‘Bill’’ Rose, lies most particularly in Poland and the Slavic
people of Europe. Dr. Rose 1s a
Canadian from Manitoba and speaks
with gripping intensity. Like Andrews
he conducted an afternoon group, but
gave two addresses to the whole assembly. The meaning of religion, of life
to me, said Dr. Rose is not quietism,
not magic, not theology, bur rather
a search for a God that 1s worth serving,
and the service of that God. The basis
of all revolution, he declared, was
repression ot Life, that dynamic power
withi na people that will break forth
to shatter the institutions that confine
it. It was this repression of Life that
caused the French Revolution of 1789,
the cataclysm of 1914 and the outbreaks of discontent in the East today.

Dr. Curry met his group from 9 a. m.
to 10.45 a. m. To a large extent our
outlook on life is molded for us by our
institutions. Home, Church, School,
Social, State, Economic; by our traditions, sentiments, loyalties, constitutions, by race, desires, fears and by
what we have at stake. These are
eveolved from life to meet our needs and
we are judged according to the contribution they make to life. To our
understanding of life Jesus has contributed a ‘‘way of living,” a divine
example, a great ideal, a philosophy
of life, a hope, a certainty, a new scale
of values, a hitherto unknown power.
Dr. Curry further talks were based on
the New Proposal of Jesus—to live

here—The Way of the Cross, Continuing Fellowship.

Our days began early and were
filled with much intense thinking, but
there was a time for recreation as well;
skating and a “straw drive’’ were enjoyed, After supper each night a
sing song provided opportunity for
pleasant relaxation. Indeed, singing
was a very prominent feature of the
whole conference. The watch night
service was made interesting through
the recital by Mrs. Kim, Mr. Andrews,
Mr. Beaton, Dr. Rose of the New Year
customs of the East.

The evening meetings were made
open to the people of Sackville and
were well attended.

Opportunity was afforded for each
university to meet as a unit to discuss
ways and means for making improvements in the local branch of the movement. The proposal of engaging a
Maritime Secretary was considered.

E. W. JACKSON.

SHIRTS -
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   

 

SPECIAL SHIRT

Play

prices to Clubs.

   

He is seeking for

How are they to be

worthy of positions of

Barrington Street,

ST he

 

that they would eventually dwindly | tion

or if the kingdom of God were already | girls and the boys.

 

January 17th, 19806

nel

The Practical
World

Working one’s way through college
has often been presented in a giamorous aspect to the seeker for an education. Even prospective students to

V-whom making a living is not an immedFor aliate necessity consider tackling the

problem for its disciplinary value.
To the youth who must get an educathrough his own efforts it presents
the only avenue to specialized training.
It is he who must weigh whether the
sacrifices are worth the results.

Immediate application of knowledge to industrial life is an important
favorable factor. Use of new information aids in its intention. Adjustment to the practical world gives
traning in the judicious spending of
money. Guidance in the  se:ection
of a permanent vocation may be gained
by outside contact. Time, being valuable, is used without waste.

Overwork is one of the dangers to
be avoided in tackling the double
toii-study program. Valuable school
activities will be missed, at least
curtailed. Social pleasures will be reduced to the minimum.

Lengthening of the college career
by reduction of the number of credit
hours carried appears to be the most
advisable program to the working
student. By this method he can lay
out a balanced schedule which wil,
produce a decent living, provide time
for thorough study, take part in one

activity, and occasionally enjoy a
little social life-—U. of Washington
Daily.

More Badminton

Blues

Last year we got fifteen dollars from
the Students Council and, at that,
they kicked when we bought three new
rackets. But Mr. Stirling got us some
new nets and some of the boys got
rackets of their own and so the Dal
players cleaned up on the other teams
in the City League. Charlie Clarke
and Bill Hart and Forrest Musgrave
were probably the best of the bunch.
Now Charlie’s fame has gone so far
that the profs take him on when they
want some opposition.

This year, by the grace Gofod and
the alleged influence of three prominent
members of the Students Council
(taken separately of course) we got
fifty dollars to be divided between the
! Can you beat itFifty dollars, and the courts are in use
nearly all the time!

But just a word, Mr. Stirling is
absolutely the best friend the badminton club ever had; he bought us new
nets out of his gym grant when he
might have bought something he liked
better and he gives us his time and
assistance whenever we need it. Now
we have only two more things to pray
for, mixed doubles and more money .

Tewek

Col. Edwin A. Parrott, of Princeton,
N. J., the oldest living graduate of
Oni Wesleyan University, and who
heard Lincoln give his Gettysburg
address, recently passed nis 98th birthday. He sat on the platform when
Lincoln spoke at Gettysburg, having
been a colonel of the First Ohio Infantry and a friend of both Lincoln and
General Grant.

 

 

 

Here is a thing that every College Student
has to have, no matter at what price.

Jump at this wonderful opportunity and
Sport some of the latest styles in Forsythe
Arrow and Tocke Shirts : : : : +: :

SALE NOW O

SHANES MEN’S WEAR SHOP

30 SPRING GARDEN ROAD

 

 

 

Badminton!

And enjoy the thrill of this game that is
fast sweeping Canada.
ships—gay social life—great fun.

Pleasant friend
Call on Phinney’s for Birds, Rackets and
Nets made by Slazenger and Spalding,
leaders in the world of Sport.

Special

 

oe
a i
TY
: 7 > 3 7
do a 2. J :
z | " oe de oe i a Fas ‘et
aie Te hy soe Rai Sie ae dof iv
na 7 - ~ 7 a Me as h : :
a Tie i: pei “ ean

 
  

TS ee ee

| This Examination
) Question

 

  
 
   

Once again examinations have come
upon us and passed into the background
This time they have left in their wake
more than the usual number of disappointments in the way of failures.
In some cases these failures are easily
explained by the tact that those preparing for the exams neglected to
study even that minimum amount,
which is requiredto secure a bare pass

   
  
    

     
 

    

   

»

  
  
 
 
   

   
  
  

Theme Song for the Week.
_—— fohnny was a chemist.

r 1 Jobaey = no co
For what he thought was
Pe H2S04.

Py

  

H20,

 
 
  

    

Ta:
mete <, — Pai of forty marks. There are other cases,
" =. m ass ila though, where apparently students
— —————sWfaiter-—We have most any- with good records behind them, with

at least an average amount of intelligence as shown by their class work,
have failed miserably. It is this
situation that raises the old question
again. Are written examinations a
proper test of one’s knowledge of any
subject? Should not some other system

  

es A oy thing on our menu.

— ss Sedgewick, C. !—So I see,
suppose you bring me a clean
‘ Pays | ¥ one.

——
- ,

Ps 4
i

    
     

 
 

     

    

_ It is rumoured that the Half Pint
evuers are going to make a decanter

rs
—,
ae es
Pe, eS i
i F..
r ea

Pal

  

     
     
   
   
  
  
  
   
  
    
  
   
  
   
  

be devised of allowing a prefesser to

ec tion of their show. pirere at an accurate maleate of a
ae a a : student’s knowledge of his~ subject?

ha wee cory See tlt ae res Objections to written examinations

are many. They allow for too much
last minute cramming. This cramming, though not entirely useless by any
means is not of lasting value to a
student in the same way that regular
work over a long period is. Some
students, particularly co-eds, are so
constituted that they are under a
severe mental strain during the time of
exams, and so can not do their best in
displaying their knowledge. When forced to write three exams on the same

a eo. 4 . ; ‘
by did something.

What Glee Club needs
and needs badly is fewer
‘critics and more dramatic

_ workers. 
4 Graham Allen says he gets a
4 great laugh out of the Dalhousie

_ _Gaselle. We might say the
same thing about the paper he

. rd ,
ae a writes for. But then we won't. time they stand a very poor chance of
Gt Th oe L passing on all of the number. This
a There’s a Shirreff Hall freshette that|is the chief objection that is offered
thinks boop boop a doop means some- | to the system by the majority of people.

There is also a considerable element of
luck, in the written work, in that some
students by mere chance have contrived

_ thing.

 

 

WHAT HO!

There is a.ways a considerab.e section of every Year Book devoted to
student organizations, which are of
great interest because of the prominent

part they piay in college life. The
Editor of ‘Pharos’ wants to give
them a very good showing in the 1930
Edition, but this can only be done in
ONE WAY.

Organizations (such as the Band,
etc.,), Societies of ail sizes and kinds,
from the D. A. A. C, to the smalest,
Ciubs, etc! To be represented in the
Year Book, the President must see
that—

(1) The fuu-dress title
organization, and

(2) The complete list of officers, and

(3) A few words as to the purpose
and work of the Organization.
is compiled and slipped into either of
the “Gazette” boxes, in the M. M.
Library, or in the Forrest Bldg., as
soon aw possible.

Surely if you are interested enough
in a society or club to be its President
or Chief Officer, you will be glad to have
it recorded in the 1980 Year Book!

of the

 

 

Attention, Graduates! All who hope
to receive degrees or diplomas at the
1930 Spring Convocation are asked to
make a date, as soon as possible, immediately, with Mr. Gauvin. Please
remember that television has not yet
become general, so if you want to sce
yourselves in the “Pharos,” you must
have your picture taken, not in March,
but within the next two weeks.

The Staff of the 1980 Year Book is

ALL CONTRIBUTIONS FOR THIS DEPARTMENT MUST BE IN THE HANDS OF THE MANAGING EDITOR BEFORE THURS. OF EACH WEEK

Advice to
Young Tots

Listen my children and you shall hear
A tale more telling than Paul Revere
A tale appealing to heart and ear
A tale to flounder the scholar with fear
A tale to drive you to coeds and beer.
First Freshette:

A senior at College—philosophical
critter

Hour or hour discoursing did fritter

Around him in library cr room or at
table

The boys always gathered, gave ear
to his fake;

Seen at all dances heard at debate
Attended the lectures—most always
ate!

Nights ‘fore exams with girls at the
shows—

When did he study?
knows.

Exam marks were posted: Lo and
behold

pccerte his marks he knew his stuff
old:

Now I'm a young freshette,
anxious to know

Whence undeserved such fortune did
flow ?

I studied and studied: With plucks
now I moan

Is the Devil dear Editor good to his
own?

Is that then the Secret of this senior
at College?

Or has he MacOdrum’s brain, wit
and knowledge?

THE CURE.
First Senior-ita:

The Secrets no secret my dear, so
don't scoff

Concentrate your attention while in
Class to the prof.

Gawd only

and |

 

STORIES
COMEDY
REVIEWS

   
     

   
 

 

What Dreams |Comic Strip Beats

Portilant, Lre.-—(I1P)—The doings of
comic str.p characters apparently are
of more nterest to the average student
at Reed College here than the affairs
of the nation state or city, it was revealed here recently in a survey made.

Of the 204 students who expressed
the r opinions on the matter, 56 preferred reading com c strips first and 47
others would rather take a glance
at the front page and then turn to the
comic sect on.

The average

In dreams I lolled in cradling seas,
Or pierced beneath the skies;

In dreams I was a mastering god,
And has translucent eyes.

In dreams lifes problems wondrous clear
Were certified solution:
The open sesame was near
To cleanse the world’s pollution.

"Twas under moon, one tenting night,
These dreams were quite bewitching
Damn dreams are doomed to sudden
blight
I woke to scratch bee-itching.

BEN R. GUSS.

number of papers

read by the students daily was two,
although one student read four papers.
The average time spent by the students
read ng newspapers was estimated at
85.5 minutes daily.

 

 
  
  
 

I’ve changed to |
Winchesters
—wonderfully
mild and

"bended right

 

    

Let opposite sex find no place in your

   

a Rosie, “italy, ‘a Sate ive been the very thing asked of them on the; yow complete with the selection of the
’ ’

       
 
     
 

 

 

  

   

pee More than one third of the 2,800
extra helpers used in New York post
-_-—s offices during the Christmas rush this
) year will come from college classrooms.

    
 

no system has been found to substitute
that is satisfactory. There are also
advantages in examinations that are
often overlooked. After all, is not our

 
   

 
   

    

 

some of the above objections are valid, | of “Pharos.”

C. W. Clarke, Junior in Arts, Scholarship man, will hold the job of Copy
Editor.

The othe: members of the Editorial

1 Sie aper, while another student has laid | 2 sitions: classes,
. _ founded to'teacn boys how to be cnevs. emphasis on the wrong part of his her be ie B. Sc., Editor-in-| Be attentive to master as the pious at
course, perhaps through ho fault ot his| Chicf of the “Gazette,” former Sport | masses, A @
rS own, and consequently suffers a failure. | Rgitor of same publication, prominent To the prof. as professor, that secret’s s .
Unfortunately, however, although) Dental Student, will be Sport Editor | antique a ty

To tne prof. as professor and not asa

shiek!
B. GITTIN GOOFEE.

 

  
 

life after college a series of tests? For|staff are as announced in a previous
the doctor, every operation must repre-| “Gazette,” with the exception of Mr.
sent to a certain degree, an examination.| 4. |. Murphy, B. A., whose connection
He may not be in the best mood for it, | with the Year Book is unofficial.

     

   

ewe

G.A. McDonald

   

For Freshettss
Only

   

ester

CIGARETTES

 

   

mentally or physically, but must see it
through. Similarly with the business

———
 

| Winch

 

   

   

    
    

 

   

 

 

 

    
     
    

 

   

§ eed man. His opportunities come upon
| him like exams. Is he equal to the|__ More snaps please! More SNAPS. = Rr ‘i +
Hing TOBACONIST ‘demands which will be made upon his|If you want to get more than enough Dear Editor: Caranre SAVE THE “POKER HANDS
s Smokers Requisites of every knowledge and skill in making the most | !aughs out of your Year Book, send in ovine ‘litle Gusto: — =
description of that opportunity? For the lawyer|@8 Many snaps as you can. Subjects The following little jingle 1s pennec
; = every case is an examination, offering | M@y be either satiric or humorous.| because of the following circumstances:
A complete stock of Domtertte unexpected developments at every turn, No objection to specially posed groups, | A number be peesnettes, have: ‘Deca fps ee ete te
ro, and Importe And go it is through the occupations of | provided they look natura. And these | making remarks such as these: ; a
CIGARS, CIGARETTES ife. College tests should train u sin| bright ideas to Mr. R. S. Morton, Law) Don't you tnink Prof. MacOdrum is YELLOW C AB K ——_
and TOBACCOS the attaining of valuable qualities of | School, Forrest B.dg. sweet? I could just sit and look at him!! .
Don’t you think Prof. George W.lson LIMITED

     
 

quick thinking and clear analysis under
heavy strain.

It is also true, despite all the protests
to the contrary, that in the great
majority of cases that student who is
most ready in class with answers to
puzzling questions, and with comments
on the problem under discussion which
display a keen intelligence will be at

is the masterful Greek Type? I could
just sit and look at him!!!
Don’t you think Prof. George Crouse
is a Roman type? I could just............
Don’t you think Dr. MacMechan is
noble looking? He inspires...............
Repaid just...
I, for one Mr, Editor, go on record

Fraternity Pins and Class
Jewelry are smarter when
made by experienced workmen.

We have specialized in this
field for years.

Henry Birks & Sons

 
 
  
 
 
  
  

SACK. 4444
Halifax Only Metered

Service
Same Rates 24 Hours.

Dear Mr. Editor

I saw by the Gazette
that two Yankee students
had gone around the world.
That’s nothing, so have
two McGill students. They

    
   
       
   
    

 

   

 

   

BUTTONS ON or near tne top when results are an- a kent Si ce qe vouring he ga Ots bee ae ent Two travel for same as one, Limited
RENTS MENDED nounced They are of course, excep- And your own Dal men ee a Oe a See More than two, 20 cents extra DIAMOND MERCHANTS
y tions. But do not exceptions prove the h fa ; b professors from College, unlike Ceasar : : Halifax
a : ave done considerable let us gather about us professors with ‘
|| HOLES DARNED rule? travelling themselves, re- 1 d hunervy looks

>. Admitting, then, that. there are member. Why give the ean and hungry looks,

 

>

     

defects in the examinations system we
nevertheless believe it to be the best
that can yet be found. Criticism of
it should be soundly constructive in
offering alternatives which would better

Yanks publicity when they

Yours in futurity,
don’t pay for it. ms ae

B. GITTIN GOOFEE.

   

That’s the service you get
free when you send YOUR

Laundry to Ungar’s.

        
    

Your sincere friend,

EVAN MORTON.

Shirreff Hall

   

Our High Quality Standard

      
     
 

 

 

 

   

 

   

 

   

 
   
  

   

 

   

   
 

Last!

a ; | : fill th d of ds of : : N. B. The whole problem, the cause, a eee case ee
|| VALETERIA student's scholastic development. Bee rt mane, Sa cute ate cotined Ee he Commerce
Be new prendi ng Servi SUITS, OVERCOATS Society
Shaped and Piesmen fer Leather Goods . FULL DRESS and ar) 3
ts. ° ° ,
wo Nova Scotia Technical College ce one Dalhousie

Crested

 

   
   
   
  
 

          
    

Sp meer met ee tyne rn $24 area
ree e ° ts for years.
|| UNGAR’S Treat yourself to a new leather ENGINEERING COURSES fae
t Portfolio or loose leaf book MADE TO MEASURE | ;
Barrington St., Halifax, N. S. See our assortment of Novelty IN F A R R E L L S

   

Goods—First floor.

 
 

Tip Top Tailors

Har. 107

   

Tl Sac. 42
me ae New Store

 
 

Civil, Electrical, Mechanical and Mining

    
 

i mad a : 9 e e ; ’
SUB PERING recon Kell S Limited Snel is is pl a 446 Barrington Street
a 9 ; ‘ : TRAMWAY BUILDING
CLEANING PRESSING To Dalhousie Students with Engineering Diploma Sutringtow xndihackville Sts. A co mplete Book Stationery

      
  
  
      
    
 
  
 

i om . .
GRANVILLE STREE and Gift Shop Service

Short Skirt Edict?

Headline in the Gazette says college
men are in favour of short skirts for
women. To see or not to see that is
the question It dosen ‘t bother me for
I know I can get the best dresses. long
or short at D'Eauville's. Margie.

D Sauville’s

HALIFAX

  

Modern Equipment, Instructing Staff with Industrial Experience

 

 

 

 

Tuition Fee $75.00 per year. Twenty-five scholarship of $75.00 each.

 
 

Write or call for Calendar or advice

 

F. H. SEXTON, Pres.

 

 

| SPECIAL VALUE
| ! | During our January Sale we are selling our
| Regular Tuxedo Suit $39.50 for $37.55. This is
: a i an all hand tailored three piece suit with silk
vest and is especially suitable for the college

»

 

PIANOS, VICT ROLAS,
Small Musical Instruments and Victor Records

We invite you to join our

Fiction Lending Library

2 Cents per day

| McDonald Music Co.

  
    
   

As Usual

The best in Ice Creams, Confectionery and Meals, as well

|

   
 
 
    
 
  

8

COLWELL BROTHERS. Ltd

— oe

 

as courtesy, efficent service and

attractive surroundings are to
be had at

   
   
 

    
   

   
   

   

i -~ 483-487 BARRINGTON STREET | The Green Lantern. 93 Barrington St. Halifax. AT 31 SPRING GARDEN ROAD.
eee wee | | All Dresses $12.00----All Coats $24.00

 
   
   
     
   
    

|

win H. Griswold, 25, a graduate
Haryard Law School with degrees
ctor of science If law and bachelor
w, has been appointed as assistant
arles E. Hughes, Jr. solicitor
eral of the United States. Griswold’s duties at Washington will con“agg Eeoces and yng lawsuits
in the Supreme Court of the United
-__ Donald S. Friede, New York Book
Publisher, has been sentenced to pay a
me. Ste of: a and costs for selling a
scopy of Theodore Dreiser's ''An Amerisan Tragedy”’ in Boston, on the grounds
that the book is an abscene publication.
_ ‘The arrest was planned by the publisher
as a test case. He sold the book toa

fy . policeman, :

Nag Henry Ford has been bequeather
_——s« $10@ by the terms of the will of the late
es” c.g. Hipsence Smalley-Babbitt, §2,
__—-who died at Ypsilanti, Mchh. recently.
~~ The deceased was an historian, and

AF: 3

oe
‘a 73
_ainl Fe

mt
i
a 7c
ee

  

     
     
   
  

the automobile manufactuer in his

greatly admired the work being done
y
American Museum at Dearborn,

win ter. =

 

| At the Orpheus

'

tt “The Broadway Hoofer,”’ the Columbia all-talking mucical romance opened
‘at the Orpheus Theatre last night with
‘Marie Aaxon, Jack Egan and Louise
Fazenda in the leading roles. Though
‘the story is simple, it is robust enough
to form a satisfactory basis for the
excellent music.
| The artistic dances, the catchy
ck ‘music and the superlatively good
ane acting on the part of the three prin_-—s- etpals of this production provided a
thoroughly diverting evening's enter-tainment.
The plot is built about Adele Dorey,
Ra tpees popular New York musical comedy
- actress, who goes to a country town to
. frecuperate aiter a strenuous season.
oe Adele, accompanied by her maidte, companion, Jane, are enjoying the
simple life when Bobby Lewis, manager
abd leading man of a burlesque show
ew arrives. He not only succeeds in
pe winning the Broadway star’s heart,
au but presses her into service as a mem
be ber of his troupe. How Adele decides
to tear up a lucrative contract to follow
ra __ the burlesque hoofer, supplies a drama: tic conclusion to the romantic plot.
This love romance of the two children
of jazz who will dance their way into
your heart is the last work in eye an
.  @ar entertainment. George Archaina: baud directed.

 

Student
| Activities

Continued from page 1

a
?

Sad (1 knowledge,”” said a member of the
Committee. ‘We want the students

‘ themselves that they to have an im
portant, if not the most important,

f part to play in the future development

‘ors of old Dalhousie.”

rr The first four of these broadcasts

he have already taken place, all of which
; - have taken the form of lectures, due

ig = to the fact that at the time no student

Pil activities were available, either during

Sa exams or holidays.

Dr, Archibald MacMechan opened

Rk the season’s programmes during exam

. week, with an address on “Christmas

_ Customs,’”’ which was well received.

_ Other speakers thus far have been

— ~—Rev. Dr. J. A. McGlashen, of Dart
| ae mouth; Rev. Dr. Artnur H. Moore,
_-—_——* President of King’s; and Mrs. C. Wilson
ie Smith, wife of the Professor of Educa
+ tion,

_ _ Sina Singer, last year’s Glee Club
President, and leader of the orchestras
and bands for the past three seasons,

has expressed himself as most enthus
ss @astic over the idea of the students
taking part.

_ Among early features now promised
are Glee Club programmes, and possibly
aoc | es Debate. An attempt
ee be made to send the big debate
on Feb, 10th with the United States
2 _ Collegians, over C. H. N.S. also, if the
ah ar saeien can be obtained for tnat hour
Sn OF 8Q.
me _ _ Wednesday nigat will probably be
= - Dal's regular period, but on special
_-—_, gecasions other night will be requested
ae © special events.

Dr, J. H. L. Johnstone, Professor of
ae 8, 1s officiating at the microphone

the series of broadcasts, Any

uctive suggestions by interested
nts would be gladly received by|

  
        
   
   
 

 
  
   

   
  
    
 

F 7
a

OUR INTER

i PONT

 

ARTHUR S. PATTILLO

Support Needed

Inspired by the splendid record established by the
football team last fall, our basketball squad begin their
‘seasons activities at the Y. M. C. A. on Saturday evening
when they will compete with the N. S. Technical College
in the opening game of the city league.

We, as student supporters, are deserving of some
credit in connection with the winning of the coveted
Rugby trophy, and it is on us that a large amount of the
success of our hockey and basketball team will depend this

 

ta Our athletes are giving their time unselfishly to the
-__ eause of college sport, and the least we can do is cooperate
with them by giving them our whole-hearted support.
Let us show our teams that they are not giving their

best for an evidently indifferent student body.

 

Hither and

  
 
    
    
  
     
   

Thither

Continued from page 1

and might be abetted by the necessit
of obtaining invitations to gain a
mission,

What do you think of the system o
giving lectures at Dalhousie? That is
a question that many have asked and
been asked. The general answer is
that it depends on the prof. Criticism
is useless if merely destructive but a
little constructive criticism hurts no
one. Personally I think dictated lectures are far from a success. The
student is compelled to write furiously
during the whole hour; how many
profs ever dictate at a moderate rate
of speed. Secondly the student is so
busy trying to remember what has just
been said that he is never able to digest
the lecture—therefore the purpose of
the lecture is lost. One might just as
well stay away from the class and read
the text during the hour. Thirdly
when the examination comes the
student with the best memory, although
he may understand the subject least,
yet because of his ability to commit
the notes to memory, makes the
highest mark. What do you think?
Do you agree or not? Let us have
your opinions.

Submitted by,
ART PATTILLO.

Wins All-Round
Award

Montclair, N. J.—(IP)—The Montclair Yale cup for 1929 is to be awarded
to Saunders MacLane, of Norwalk,
Conn., who has the highest scholastic
record ever attained by a Yale undergraduate. The cup is to be given
annually hereafter to the Yale senior
who js the best scholar.

MacLane made an average for the
first three years of his work of 964.
The lowest grade he ever got was 87}
for one term in his freshman year
a ae years he has nine term marks of

Unique Wedding

New York—(IP)—With the entire
Florida football squad as spectators,
Rainey Cawthon, captain and fullback
on the University of Florida football
team, was married here the day following the Florida-Harvard game, to Miss
Sarah Lovell Payne, daughter of a
prominent Nashville, Tenn., couple.

The bridegroom had a bright, new
bruise across his nose, received in the
game at Cambridge, Several others
in the audience bore marks of battle.
ee

The Students’
PRINTERS

Dalhousians always come to
us when they want a good job
done quickly—and Dalhousians
KNOW!

THE ROSS PRINT

95 Argyle Street
Halifax - - - N.S,

 

    
  
 
  
  
 
   
   
 
    
    
  
    
   
   
  
 
 
   
    
    

  
   
 

 

   
     
  

 

   
   
 
 
   
 
  
  
 
 
  
   
  
     
    
    

 

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

A. GORDON COOPER

 

 

 

 

COLLEGIATE TEAM __

 

THOS. D. MACDONALD

 

 

NOTICE.

The management of the Senior hockey team would
like those who will be able to entertain one or more of the
members of the Mount Allison Hockey team during
their 86 hour stay in the city to communicate with Harvey
Sutherland or Walter MacKenzie.

 

The Term Collegiate is
Defined by Contributor

Writer attempts to eradicate pre existing misconceptions.

 

The term collegiate is defined as
“pertaining to college,” but of recent
years the work conveys far more than
the short meaning given in Webster’s.
A “collegiate’”’ person might be defined
as one who affects the sophistication of
a man of the world, wears clothing as

d. | exaggerated in style as possible, posseses

a slicker covered with ‘‘wise-cracks’’

f | and cartoons, drives a dilapidated Ford

if his finances permit, covered withspecimens of crude humour, and disdain mention of books as being some
thing outside the realm of a University
existence. Fortunately, this type of
student is extremely rare in most of
the Canadian Colleges, being chiefly

‘confined to the Institutions of higher

learning in the U. S. A. This we regard as the Republic’s loss and Canada’s gain.

There has been almost a complete
absence of this “‘collegiate’’ behaviour
at Dalhousie, and attempts to introduce exaggeration in the shape of
special articles of wearing apparel for
particular groups, excessive ‘“‘college
spirit,’ and actions of like nature have
met with no _ success. Dalhousians
have adopted in the past, and no
doubt will in the future, moderation
rather than extremities in their behaviour, both on the campus and in
other places. It is with feelings of
tolerant amusement in the play of
children, that Dalhousians have read
of and witnessed some of the “‘colleglate” activities of other Universities.

A toast was once offered to Dalhousie
in which the speaker expressed his
feelings about the University by means
of the little story which follows. A
man in Canada’s Northland was once
looking for a leader for a string of
dogs which were to draw him on a long
and hazardous journey. He wanted
tne very best dog he could obtain, so
went to a man wno was noted for the
excellent canines that he had. The
two men went out to look the animals
over. They were a yelping, snarling
pack, with one exception. ‘This wasa
great dog who’ kept a dignified silence
and with a proud and haughty air
looked disdainfully on the brutes
around him. The prospective purchaser commented on the silence of
this dos. The deaer repiied to his
comment by saying, ‘‘That is the bes
dog Ihave. He isa real thorougnbred”
And so it is with Dalhousie, The
Univers:ty does not make much noise,
and on tnis account is sometimes
accused of a lack of ‘‘college spirit,'e
but her <ilence is the silence of tht
thoroughbred. She takes to hear,
the advice “Don’t ke Colegiate.”

   
  
      
      
   
   
  
   
     
    
 
   

If You Want to See Well
SEE WALLACE

Optometrist and Optician
Y. M. C. A. Blbg. Halifax, N.S.

  
    
  
       
    
    
    
     

Get Your
Hair Cut

at
Shield’s Barber Shops
Two Shops
41 Sackville St. and Roy Bldg.
[5th floor]

Our Roy Building shop will
appeal to the ladies of Shirriff Hall.

Phone S448 for appointment.
Open Saturday evenings.

      
 
  

 
   

Greeting Cards
Programmes
Invitations
Letter Heads
Envelopes, etc.
From

NOVA PRINT,LTD

227-229 HOLLIS STREET

are delivered

WHEN PROMISED

 

‘MACLEop. BALCOM

LIMITED

34 Morris Street

174 Spring Garden Rd

203 Young Street

Cor. Quinpool Road

and Oxford Street
and Bedford

 

 

 

 

HANES
HOE
HOP
284 Spring Guides Road
Is The College Stud
ent’s Shoe Store.

Our Low Prices make our
high quality Shoes doubly
attractive to both men and
women.

  

The nearest Shoe store to the
College

 

 

 

 

 

     
  
   
    

Winners-
 

 

 
   
      
   
    

From the Start

For 60 years the REACH Trade
Mark on Sporting Goods has been
a mark of perfection. No matter
what your favorite sport may be,
we can supply you with equipment
that will help you play the game
with the best that’s in you.

CRAGG BROS.
Co., Ltd.

Hardware and Sporting
Goods

HALIFAX, 
    
  
   
     
    
   
 
  
    

    
   
 
 

   
 
  

N.S.

   

ORPHEUS

FRIDAY and SATURDAY

  

Columbia All Talking Musical
Romance, with MARIE SAXON,
JACK EGAN, LOUISE FAZENDA

OTHER FEATURES—SOUND NEWS

EVENING PRICES

Entire Upper Floor Entire Lower Floor 
50c.
40c.

“The Broadway Hoofer’’

NEW PRICE POLICY

TAX INCLUDED

January 17th, 1980

“THEATRE.

THE Supreme ALL TALKING Drama
of the Air

99
“FLIGHT
A 100% TALKING HIT SENSATION
with JACK HOIT, Lila Lee, Ralph
Graves and an all Star Cast.

       
     
       
    

 

 
   
 

MATINEE PRICES
Entire Upper Floor - 40c.
Entire Lower Floor - 30c.
Children - - 15c.

 
   

 

 

 

    
   
       
 

CASINO

THIS WEEK

__Thurs.-Fri.-Sat.

“TWIN BEDS”

All talking - all laughing
Comedy hit with

Jack Mulhall Patsy Ruth Miller
NEXT WEEK
Mon-Tues-Wed

GEO. ARLISS
“DISRAELT’’

 

 

CARRICK

FRIDAY and SATURDAY
The ALL TALKING Classic

of Foot Ball, Romance and
Brass-Buttons.

“SALUTE”

—WiTtTH—

- GEORGE O’BRIEN and
HELEN CHANDLER

MON. and TUES. ONLY
“LITTLE JOHNNY
HINES”

 

WASH DAY ?

Students !

and want it done neatly

HOME LAUNDRY

“For Particular People ”’

 

 

Lord Nelson
Hotel

(The Social Center)

The Ideal Atmosphere for
your Saturday Evening
Dance, or at any other time
for your Bridge parties,
Dinners, Dances, Etc. : ;

|
AFTERNOON TEA,

Orchestra—4.30 to 5.30

SUNDAY CONCERT

9 to 10 p. m.

 

SS

Renown

Bika

Canterbury 9.00

All EATON branded lines,

their prices,

‘T

Eaitons Third Floor

EATON

"MARITIMES

SSS 5S SS

 

 

 

|
|
|
|
; Fine Footwear
|
|
|

Boots and oxfords in each grade
Sizes 6 to 10

The next time you want your
Laundry finished in a hurry
Call the

70 Bilby St.

Phone L.233I

Dry Cleaning, Sponging, Pressing

|
The

Halifax Chronicle

AND

The
Halifax Daily Star

The

fastest growing

newspapers ip

Nova Scotia

  
 
     
    

$4.29
3.00
7.00

offering top-most value at

o

 

C

 

   
 

   

 

 

 

 

|

ee i
