ee eked

THE OLDEST
COLLEGE PAPER
IN AMERICA

ih

      
       

——
—— ST SS ———

   

— Official Student Publication at Dalhousie University—

HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA, MARCH 16th, 1928

Acadia Debaters Defeat

BENNETT ROUSING

Dalhousie|PALHOUs!

ae ee

E HONOURS

 

    

 

  

DALHOUSIE

Decision

«INTERESTING SPEAKERS
_-~——s HEARD IN CLEVER
a DEBATE

   
 

 

ates,
ba : ‘ : :
—sésM)r. A Stanley MacKenzie our pre-_—s Miident presided over the meeting and
«in his opening remarks stated that
debating has received great impetus in
me this part of the country in the last
© five or six?years. ‘‘It used to be that
= the speeches were prepared for the men;
they were merely mechanical loud
speakers and sometimes not loud enough.
‘Dr. MacKenzie looks forward to the
day when debating will have developed
to such an extent that both sides will
have to prepare the entire subject: the
sides not be announced until the speakérs are on the platform. j e
: Mr. MacDormand in opening fire
ss for Acadia defined the limits of the
F resolution, outlined the sources of mater, ial, in order to offset false propaganda;
4 gave a general out! ] !
ales history of economic policies of Russia
A and then pointed out the increase in
ign trade.
poe eet Laurence leading off for Dal/ ~ -housie welcomed the visitors very heartaan ily and proceeded to argue. The motto
in Russia is this: To every man everything he needs; from every, man the
“best of his ability.” Russia is isolated
ob because of her policies; she has reoe ae pudiated her debt. She has destroyed
ie ee the incentive of her people.

ON gs John R. Scott Acadia pointed out
a the friendly conditions existing between
employers and employees in Russia
| &These conditions,” said he, ‘‘are being
now emulated in England and Canada.
_-He referred to the better wages better
‘hours and better working conditions in
Og Grant Dalkio ie, set up that
son Grant Dalhousie, set
ed BoA eh tan is more to be desired than

A pe 7 enti -_ Con munism. “Capitalism
- mneans the survival of the fittest; it
means competition,” Communism instead of revising, is reversing progress
in Russia. '
-. Ralph C. Henson Acadia, defied
~ ‘the interpretation of his opponents.
| ‘Abstractions have no place here. We
are not debating abstract right or
wrong.” Mr. Henson showed a know
a, ledge of the conditions past and present
Pete in Russia.
er Thomas Parker Dalhousie, declared
| that economic progress in, Russia. took
E rat place in spite of Bolshevism which is
ys y iving way to capitalism.

Beenie In rebuttal Mr. Laurence referred to
cae his opponents as being ‘Gnebricted by
a" the exuberance of their own verbosity.

a Mr. MacDormand told the story about
oe the young lady who on being asked
what she would do if a young man trie
to kiss her replied: ‘1 would meet the
matter face to face.” That applies to
my opponents. ; :

Dr. MacKenzie in closing the meeting
en referred to the recent Maritime Team
aa” that toured the Dominion under the

  
   
  

wa

 

che N. F.C. U.S. and stated that they had
e won 10 out of 12 debates. He menee" tioned that 2 members of the team were
tee present: Messrs. Elbert Paul and Ern8 est Howse. He thanked the judges
e.. Dr. Line of Pine Hill, Prof. Guy of
Beas" Mount Allison and Dr. C. K. Kerr of
a Presbyterian Church of Halifax.
eae ; The Acadia Debaters were entertained
fort at a Banquet at the Green Lantern
up after the Debate on. Monday night.
- i Expressions of good will were made by
nga Roy MacLeod, Prof. Guy of Mount
SG Allison, Roy Laurence and Mr. Macnae Dormand. It was a very enjoyable

oan function and was attended by those
active in the various college endeavours.

Med. Society

 

  
   
   
   
     
  
     
   

Meeting

ri The Dalhousie Students Medical
Society held a meeting on Thursday
March 7, in the Munro Room of the
Forrest Building. Several items | of
business were dealt with. A discussion

aoe arose concerning the lack of interest
‘Dalhousie University has_ taken in
_~—--—s Scientific Research. A. E. Murray
_--—__ in speaking of this said he knew at least
_——— one department which would take an
_-_—s undergraduate from research work pro_-_-~—-—- vided funds would be granted for this.
_ G. A. Winfield in supporting Mr.
Murray said he knew of another department which would be willing to
take an undergraduate and teach him
work, ‘‘There seems to be no inest taken in keeping our graduates
the school” said Mr. Winfield. A
ion that the society support a
ement to obtain funds for this
will be brought up at the next

 

  

ee:
f

; Ge

  
 

  

     
 
 
  
   

- , ' : * ‘
- , —E,. Si G,

   
    
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
  
   
   
  
 
   

line of the nature and

 

 

 

 

Mr. Gerald Godsoe, Law, Mr. Murray Rankin, Commerce, and Mr. Jack M erritt, Medicine, who have been
appointed to membership in the Malcolm Honour Society. This appoiniment 1s the highest
honour which can be conferred upon a Dalhousian by the students.

 

MALCOLM HONOUR STUDENTS ANNOUNCED

GODSOE, RANKIN AND MERRITT RECEIVE HIGHEST |

HONOUR WHICH STUDENTS’ COUNCIL CAN OFFER

The Committee of Miss Gladwin,
Messrs. Scott and Winfield and Profs.
Gowanlock and Wilson appointed by the
Students Council for the purpose of
considering possible members of the
Malcolm Honor Society have made
three nominations—Jack Merritt, Medicine, Gerald Godsoe, Law and Murray
in
the Malcolm Honor Society, which was
founded last year, is the highest honor

Rankin, Commerce. Membership

which can be conferred by the student
body on any student. Every student
in the year of graduation, is considered
for the award, and any number may be
chosen by the Committee of selection
but the high standard demanded makes
the group a small one. The members
of the Malcolm Honor Society are selected because they possess, in some
measure, the spirit of Jimmy Malcolm,
the Dalhousie student, with whose
name the Society is linked. The
spirit of Jimmy Malcolm was that of
loyalty to his college, unselfish service
to his fellow students and forgetfulness
of self in the call of friendship and duty,

d|—for Jimmy Malcolm gave his life

in an attempt to save the life of a
friend. And so each year as another
class leaves Dalhousie the students
council appoints a Committee who
shall select those outstanding students
who have throughout their whole
course have given unselfishly of their
time and talent to the service of Dalhousie and the promotion of the true
Dalhousie spirit for the Dalhousie
spirit is that of Jimmy Malcolm. This
year the Committee had little difficulty
in their selection for the students
chosen are recognized by the whole
college as never-ceasing, tireless workers
for whatever is for the good of their
Alma Mater. All three have served on
the Council, two for five years and all
have done splendid work; but council
work was by no means a deciding factor
in the ruling of the community. Mr.
Godsoe was secretary-treasurer of the
Council last year and this year president in which capacity he attended the
meeting of the N. F. C. U. S. in December and was elected vice-president
and he has in this and other ways
brought signal honor to Dalhousie.
Mr. Rankin will, next fall, begin his
fifth year on the Students’ Council
and his second as Freshman Representative. His splendid management of
Class ’31 led to his re-election as Freshman Advisor, his executive ability as
Secretary-treasurer has also won recognition and his Dalhousie spirit is
clearly reflected in his work. The
third new member Mr. Jack Merritt
has also had a most distinguished course.
Five years Council work, three years
president of the Medical Society for
which he did outstanding work, assoclate editor of the first Year Book and
one of the originators of the Malcolm
Society are some of the things which
he has done for the betterment of his
college. These three are men of whom
Dalhousie is proud and whom she may
trust to carry her spirit, the spirit of
Jimmy Malcolm through life.

ae

Lots of people are beginning to ex
perience sinking sensation every time

they see a crowd around a notice board.

°,

 

2,
a

Combined Show

This year Mr. Stirling’s Gym
display will be combined with a
Glee Club show. The program
will consist of bar-work, skits,
solos, horse-work and_ boxing,
wrestling and fencing matches.

Friday, March 30 has been
set as the date and it is expected
that this new departure will
prove a success.

THE ACADIA
DEBATING TEAM

WHO THEY ARE AND WHY

At the debate and at the banquet
after the debate much was said about
the cordial relationship between Acadia
and Dalhousie. It may be said that as
long as Acadia sends out men of the
calibre of the debaters who visited here,
she may well be proud. The three men
impressed one not only as debaters
but as capable thinkers. It may now
be said. (They seemed to get on
famously with the fairer ones of our
college).

John Scott isa convincing orator.
Born at St. Croix, N. S., 1909. After
finishing public school at St. Croix
attended Windsor Academy for 3
years—then Acadia.

At Acadia participated in two interclass debates, showed promise of being a
forceful debater from the first.

Ran in Bulmer Track Team 1926-7.
Treasurer of Sophomore Class, Student
in Arts of Acadia.

Thomas Bruce MacDonald (leader)
spoke logically, clearly and impressively.

Born at Bear River, N. S. 1904.
Completed public and high school in
Bear River, then went to Alberta,
where he taught school 2 years, attended
Normal School at Edmonton 1922-3,
taught one more year in. Alberta,
then returned to Nova Scotia to attend
Acadia.

At Acadia, McDonald has debated in
an inter-class during each of his 3 years
there, leading the Junior team in one
Junior-Senior debate of this year.

McDonald is a student in theology
at Acadia University, and is Assistant
pastor of the First Baptist Church in
Amherst, N. S.

Ralph C. Henson, born in Paris,
France of English parents, but has
lived in Canada since 4 years of age,
his Canadian home town being Bridgetown, N. S. Finished high school
education at Bridgetown. Came to
Acadia as freshie-soph in 1925.

Henson has been much interested in
debating at Acadia, and has participated
in several inter-class debates. This
year he is president of the Acadia
Athenaeum Society and is manager
of the Acadia Junior Debating Team
which debates an agricultural College
Team in Toronto, on March 23. Henson is Rhodes Scholar for Nova Scotia
thisyear.

a- oN has ae =" ft F
h a : . Wa ed by ra *% ' . t os
eae On epi psi ve BD Ps Rn tee ein AS :
oo 1 es ete uae f ae ae wee e amine {> oc €
oo” a rn ’ “ y ot * '
Bee ee eae ncaa eS os

 

Excuse Us!

Owing to the illness of our
Editor, Mr. F. C. Jennings,
the Gazetie is being issued this
week under the supervision of
W. Graham Allen, News Editor, For this reason we beg
your indulgence if mistakes
creep into this issue.

 

Commerce Society

H olds Meeting

OFFICERS FOR NEXT YEAR
ELECTED

At the Annual meeting of the Commerce society on Tuesday March 12
reports were read by the Track, Basketball and Hockey Managers. The financial report, presented by the secretary canie in for some rapid fire
criticism by Munro and _ Laurence.
Bob Slayter, Chairman of the Employment Committee gave an encouraging
report on positions for grads and undergraduates. After some discussion of
the Commerce Banquet the election of
officers was held.

Officers for next year are as follows:

Hon.-Pres. Left vacant till fall.

Pres.: Rand Matheson

Vice-Pres.: Alice Nelson

Secy.-Treas.: Charlie Miller

Executive: Roy Laurence
Margaret Mackie

Employment Committee,

George Mahon

Social Committee: Robt.

Thompson

Track Manager: Karl Harris

Basketball Manager: Ab Smith

Hockey: McKenna.

re

Chairman

Chairman

listen folks, next week is
our last issue and we need
some contributions. this will
be your last chance to send
in anything this term so if
you have any ideas or opinions shoot them along.

 

S. C. A. Tea

On the afternoon of Wednesday, Mar.
the seventh, the girl’s branch of the
S. C. A. entertained over a hundred
guests at a Musical Tea. Tea and refreshments were dispensed by a number
of fair young ladies, to the notes of
The Hungarian Rhapsody and various
other musical selections. The vocal
soloists were Miss Grace Burgoyne.
Miss Beryl Simms, Miss Helen Wilson,
Miss Margaret Wambolt® and Miss
Katherine Sawler. Miss Wainwright
gave two ‘cello solos. Mrs. Line and
Mrs. MacIntosh poured tea.

 

  
   

—o DISTINGUISHED SON
Judges Unanimous In G OVERNORS, FACULTY AND STUDENTS UNITE IN FIRST
ae FOUNDERS’ DAY CELEBRATION TO BE HELD AT

Dalhousie’s first Founders’ Day Celebration, held a week ago
to-day, was, without doubt, an unqualified success.
especially fortunate in having with us our most distinguished graduate, Hon. R. B. Bennett, leader of His Majesty’s Loyal Oppos
ition.

The ceremony took place in the Gymnasium where every
available inch of space was used to accomodate those present.
Long before the beginning of the program the hall began to fill
rapidly and when the time came to start hardly a seat was left in

the building.

The program proper did not commence until eight o'clock, but from halfpast seven, a half-hour was devoted to group singiag of the college songs, led by
the Choral Society and accompanied by the Dalhousie Symphony Orchestra

under the direction of Sina S. Singer.

On the platform were, the Governors
of the University, the Faculty, and
members of the Students’ Council, in
their academic robes, the Premier of
Nova Scotia, members of the cabinet,
the Mayor of Hialifax, members of the
Supreme Court, representatives of sister
universities, and various other friends
of Dalhousie. As the academic party
and friends proceeded to the platform
the orchestra played the War March
of the Priests trom Athalia, and, when
Mr. Bennett himself appeared the
students rose to their feet and made
the gym ring with a Dal yell.

Mr. G. Fred Pearson, Chairman of
the Board of Governors, acted as chairman for the evening and first called
Dr. Strachan of Edinburgh to open the
ceremony with prayer. Next the orchestra played a selection from Tannhauser
after which the entire assembly sang
Glory for Dalhousie.

Mr. Pearson then made a few introductory remarks. He thanked the
board for selecting him as their chairman and made a touching reference to
his predecessor, the late Mr. George S.
Campbell. Mr. Pearson then went on
to speak of Mr. Bennett. The Conservative party deserved the greatest
credit, said Mr. Pearson, in choosing
Mr. Bennett as their leader. (Cheers).
He is a distinguished lawyer and a
distinguished Dalhousian. He has shown in the past that of all his many
interests, Dalhousie is one of the nearest
and dearest to him.

President MacKenzie then rose,
amid Dal yells and applause, to give
an historical outline of the University
with particular reference to its founders
and benefactors. ‘‘It is fitting,” said
President MacKenzie ‘“‘that a university
like Dalhousie, receiving no state aid,
and therefore not supported by all the
people, but depending as it does on private support, should at regular intervals
recall and pay due honour to those who
have made possible her progress, indeed, at times, her very existence.
In this respect Dalhousie has been
rather amiss. It is my part tonight
to present a brief historical statement with respect to our Benefactors
and Munro Day.

‘To all these named and unnamed
benefactors we here tonight tender
our appreciation; to those living our
heartfelt thanks, and to those who
have passed on, our tribute to their
memory and good deeds.”

Next, J. Gerald Godsoe, President
of the Students’ Council presented Mr.
Bennett, on behalf of the student body
with an illuminated address.

Mr. Justice Russell, who had been
one of Mr. Bennett's professors at the
Law School, was given the honor of
introducing the speaker. With his
characteristic wit he welcomed Mr.
Bennett and assured him that all Dalhousie, no matter what their politics,
would wish him the greatest success
in his political career. Mr. Justice
Russell was vigorously applauded by
the students who stamped and cheered
enthusiastically.

Mr. Bennett then rose, and after
a deafening ovation, delivered the
finest speech that has been heard in the
gymnasium for years.

Mr. Bennett’s Address

Opening his address Mr. Bennett
stated he was overwhelmed by the
warmth of his welcome. From the time
he had arrived at the station in the
afternoon and had seen the eager
faces of the young men from his old,
but new, Alma Mater, there had been
a lump in his throat, and his heart
had beat a little faster. His arrival
had recalled days long since past, but
it had also recalled the disillusionments of middle life.

In introducing him he pointed out
that Judge Russell had spoken of his
successes, but had forgotten his defeats. He had spoken as if his life
were one long string of unbroken
achievements, but such was not the
case, for he in common with every
other man in the world had had his reverses and his defeats. Any achievements he had made Mr. Bennett stated, were, besides his mother, the fruits
he had gleaned through being an alum
  
 
 
   
   
   
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
   
  
    
    
  
   
   
  
   
  
    
  
  
    
  
   
   
  
   
   
 
    
 
  
    
  
  
    
  
 
 
  
  
   
    
   
   
  
  
  
  
  
   
 
 
  

We were

nus of Dalhousie.

He stated he returned to Dalhousie
as an affectionate and grateful son,
coming to a home to which he owed
much. His return recalled the days
of 1890. He remembered Dean Weldon
of the Law School, a man whom
nature had endowed with magnificent
stature, a fine physique and a kindly
face. Besides, this however, Dean
Weldon had possessed that indefinable
thing called character which had left
its impress on every student who
passed through his hands.

“Gone, gone, aré so many of them,”
said Mr. Bennett sadly, referring to
other professors he had studied under. He spoke of the “kindly face’’ of
Judge Shannon of Sydney Harrington, John Payzant and others.
“All gone,” said Mr. Bennett. He
then turned to Judge Russell, and
harked back to the days when the
judge taught him the law of contract. ‘I call it a great honor to be
introduced by such a man,” said the
speaker. ‘For my esteem of his wisdom
amounted almost to reverence.”’

Mr. Bennett then turned to his own
career. He declared he was a successful
lawyer, not a great one, and there was a
wide difference between the two. “I
have had wonderful opportunities and
I embraced them,” said Mr. Bennett.
He then dealt with some ‘of the cases
he had been engaged in, which -led
to his success, but stated they did
not give him half so much pleasure
as a case in the Dal. Moot Court, in
which he had won a legal argument
with Dean Weldon sitting. He recalled another legal argument in which
he had been pitted against D. A.
Cameron, who was on the platform
when he had lost. He referred to Mr.
Cameron, as ‘Dan’ Cameron, and
recalled Colonel Thompson was also
there at the time.

“There were great joys in those
days,”’ said Mr. Bennett, ‘Joys, sorrows and successes.’

“Gone are the greatest joys,” said
Mr. Bennett. ‘‘The greatest joy of
all is also a sadness—for a student
to see the face of his domestic circle
gladdened by the light of his own successes.”

Glad to be Back

Mr. Bennett explained he was greatly moved by the changes that had
come since his days at Dalhousie, but
he was glad to be back. “It grips
your heart,” he declared, ‘‘to smell
that tang of the sea. To think of the
glories of the past and of the benefactors we have had.”’

Speaking of the late George S.
Campbell, he stated his love fa he
institution was past understanding. It
reminded him of Lord Salisbury’s
words on the death of Disraeli, ‘‘7Zeal
for the greatness of England was the
passion of his life.” In the case of
the late Mr. Campbell it was Dalhousie
instead of England.

“It is my belief,’ declared Mr. Bennett, ‘‘George S. Campbell had not
faith in vain."

Speaking of recent benefactions, Mr.
Bennett stated: “I could not think
how proud Nova Scotia must be to
make permanent contribution to the
life of this new little college.” No
one, he believed, could attend Dalhousie without absorbing the spirit
and life of the Province. He recalled
one instance of a professor who had
come to Nova Scotia from Ontario.
He was under the impression that the
Professor believed ‘“‘we were shreds
and patches of Confederation.”

‘‘No man can live in this Province
without absorbing the life,” said Mr.
Bennett. ‘‘As Archibald MacMechan
can tell you tonight.”’

At this point in Mr. Bennett's
speech the nine-thirty gun was fired.
The students looked at their watches,
but Mr. Bennett only smiled. He
stated he remembered the fun well,
but in those days he did not have a
very good watch.

The speaker then stated the struggle of his generation was past, and a

(Continued on page 2)

- 7 ,
eee
   
 
   
  
   
   
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
   
   

   

   
 
  

  
  
  
 
  
   
 
 
  

bi : race
7. aes ee: Ss. iW “ARCHIBALD
le ou z ¥ 2 ‘
Bik Gans RS a ‘MOK RTON
. - y 7 I 52 Quinp
at ee Pies ms Phone s 308
4h, Peer oaew 8 ee |
eee set ‘Suberiptio Rate {#1 00 per year

  

 
 
  
  
  

ce a

he year is ie dsitith towards the end.

  
   
  

   
 
 
   
 
 
      
   
 
    
  
  
   
 
   
  
   
 
    
 
    
 
   
   
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
 
  
  
   
  
 
 
 

s the
On er; and Shen —hiat.
or less well-earned vacation.

f obtaining employment for the summer months.

es t

cing of their course.

Beet i ebecass there is much to be said in favour of a summer of
_ pleasure, when the poor overwrought brain can rest after its weary
‘when the tired body, sickened of routine and sedentary en
r, can relax and expand in the healthy glow of summer idlethe spirit bound by intangible but strong fetters to the

eee

c of f eutricular activities can luxuriate in absolute freedom,
there is also much in favor of a summer spent in active work,
bly out-of-doors.
e to be sacrificed, yet those who seek and find employment will
t cases be repaid in experiences and in added useful know
. few congratulatory remarks ringing in their ears,
out to conquer—such are the benefits to be obtained
al summer's employment.

mobpe te part in the ey of the universe.

   
 

  
  
   
  
    
   

| Ns 40: obtain these benefits?

th “summer months.
cal able of offering positions of a short term nature may be pleaded
as Lack of initiative on the part of the student
eee: also, contributes to the difficulty. Lack of confidence of employers
| a hiring, students adds to the difficulties.

 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 

The reception last week by The Ga:ette of a communication
- “bboch the Géological Survey of Canada, suggested a scheme whereby
+ the students might be aided in their search for employment during
3 If it were possible to form an employment bureau at

   
    
 
 

   
 

he “many “itficulties could be overcome and real aid could be extended
is to students.

     
 

The ete meat bureau should consist of a number of in fluential students who would be able to'make applications and
; inquiries i in directions in which it would be expected that seasonal
- summer employment would be needed. Great aid could be obtained

- from the alumni of the university in this respect. In this way date
_ concerning vacancies for short term work could be collected and
. _ posted regularly, The students could apply to the bureau, giving
i their qualifications and these could be apEyaeted to the employers
\ at the discretion of the bureau.
poe ci If this system were built up it would help many students to
____ earn. a little money during the summer vacation. It would encourad? age many to seek employment and could be the means of acquaint
a
ae ee ee ing the student with his future work.
iy

   
     
  
  
   
  

   
  
   
  
 
   
  
    
  
    
    
  
  
    
   
     
  

; oe * Pang An Opportunity

hk exbebtional opportunity awaits Dalhousians. The Nateal. Council of Education are sponsoring an address on ‘‘The
a Times” by John Walters, M. A., at the School for the Blind, Saturday evening, March the Seventeenth.

ean Mr. Walters’ great, great, grandfather founded ‘The Times”
se pee and it has been i in the family ever since, Mr. Walter being
are @ roprietor. :

|

Pt

  

Ww ‘The Times”, as a brew upnnier, is too well ktiown. to demand
comment here and we feel sure that many Dalhousians will avail
os of this unique opportunity to acquire some first-hand

ledge of the greatest newspaper in the world. This address

be almost an M. A. ea in itself and should prove of in
+ to students interested in English, History or Political Science,

i pepe benier and to the surdand body in general.

hough the regula admission for this lecture i is fifty cents,
ich of the re ole Council of Education has arranged
ial admission for college students of twenty-five cents, so
tuden need miss the a dress. through lack of funds.

peel sort come only. too rarely; one is now

   
 
 
 

 
     
      
     

  
   
     
   
  

 

In a few short
“be upon us; a few days more and they will be
A number will leave the city to enjoy a
A number will spend the
mer months in pleasure and healthful exercise at summer resor darts oud seaside camps or in travelling, but many, as soon as they
ch ve dropped | their books will gather the newspapers and search
ie Want: Ad column for vacant positions. Many will write long
3 “ae - and intimate letters to friends, relatives and politicians in hopes

al A great. number of the students at Dalhousie today pay, at
east, a part of their college expenses with money earned in the
summer. To a great many, a college course would be impossible
( they were unable to obtain work during these months. Others

there are, who, although it is not necessary for them to enter the
iks of the earning, do so from a sense of independence which
em feel that they should do something to further their
vn a well -being—that this something should extend to partial fin
   
  
    
  
    
  
   
    
   
   
 
    
  
   
   

Although the many pleasures of leisure

  
      
 
   

for the sacrifice they have made. A taste of the world, an
oS what they, may expect when, with half-damp diploma

    
    
  
 

‘ Along with these benefits goes a
ie of independence the feeling of the Producer, one who is

    
    
 
 

  
  

a j It is rather a difficult proption in many cases for students to obtain employment during
Inability to get in contact with the people

    
 
    
  

ez ai

ss Meats from page 1)

new generation were commencing to
take hold. |

He urged the students not to neglect their studies. He personally
ooked back with regret at opportu
? nities lost and work left undone.

Never he declared were minds more
receptive than in the days of one’s
youth, and no regrets in the world
will. bring back lost opportunities.
“No Heaven itself can change the
past if it is wasted opportunity” quoted
the speaker.

_ He warned them that success did not
come with a B. A., an L. L. B., or an
M. D., but only to the extent that the
knowledge represented by the degrees
was utilized.

Spoke of his Success

    
  

Speaking of success, Mr. Bennett
stated it did not consist of a great
bank balance, or immense wealth.
Success lay, in his belief, in doing
your best, no matter what task you
took in hand.

“You may not be able to command
applause of the Senate,”’ said Mr.
Bennett, ‘“‘or the plaudits of the multitude, but you will have the satisfaction of work well done.”

He explained this was an age of
materialism. Everything was measured by bank balances and wealth,
but he advised the students, money
was a useful servant, but a terrible
master.

“How many men of mere riches are
remembered for their wealth,” he
asked.

They were remembered, he said,
answering his own question, not for
their money, but for the use they put
their money.

“How many dollars had Carlyle,”

asked the speaker.
. Bennett then touched on Canada, as a nation, and observed as an
example of its vastness, he was as
near London, England, as he was Victoria or Vancouver. Yet he pointed
out there are less than ten million
people in this country, a country
which has unlimited natural resources,
and boundless possibilities.

He pointed out that the Maritime Provinces had taken a great part in the
National life of the Dominion. ‘“These
little Provinces have done so much,’’
he remarked. Travelling in Ontario,
Manitoba, British Columbia, throughout the Dominion you found Maritime
Province men and women leaders in
law and church, state and medicine,
practically in every path of human
effort.

He pointed out that Canada was
side by side with the wealthiest country in the history of the world which
exercised an overgrowing attraction
for Canadians. The youth of the’ Dominion was being called by higher
salaries and the wider scope offered
by the States, yet~as an example of
patriotic Canadians he pointed to the
professors who were content to stay
and work in little colleges for little
money to make virile Canadian citizens. They have given their brains and
minds for a mere pittance, but their
work showed in the products of Dalhousie, Mt. Allison, the University of
New Brunswick and Acadia and dozens of other little universities.

Concluding his address, Mr. Bennet asked whether it was to be in
Canada the student proposed: carrying
out his ambitions, or whether it was
to be some other country. Should
the young men or women give us
some little material gain, and stay at
home and help build up this country,
or should they “follow the flesh pots of
Egypt.”

Mr. Bennett stated he knew how
great the influence to go the States
was. He had felt it ‘himself. For
pure material ends, he was sure the
youth of the country could do better
elsewhere, but if they sought higher
things, he was equally sure they could
achieve them at home.

‘‘T am determined,” said Mr. Bennett,
“the humblest Professor is worth all
the rich men in Christendom.”

He declared that all should devote
some part of their life to their country, the land to which they owed so
much, and urged the youth of the
land to stay in Canada.

He believed somewhere in the gathering there was a young man or woman
who was to make a profound impression
on the life of the country.

In conclusion he wished the students well, trusted they would receive comfort and prosperity, and be
able to look back on a work well done.

“Some of us have looked back,”
said Mr. Bennett, ‘‘on lost _ opportunities and misspent moments.”

Mr. Bennett brought down the house
with his address and the crowd applauded even more vigourously than they
had done when he,started.

Dean Llwyd of All Saints Cathedral
then pronounced the benediction after
which the assembly sang the National
Anthem.

This closed the program proper,
but many stayed to listen to the final
selection of the orchestra and to meet
Mr. Bennett.

SS

Chinese Puzzle

    
  
    
 

  

    
  
 
   
 
     
 
 
  
  
  
   
    
   
     
    

 
 

 

Reading Chinese characters is the].
latest puzzle devised by the Stanford
University psychology department to
determine whether the students are
quick, alert and observing.

Professor Walter R. Miles has issued
a chart containing rows of Chinese
characters, 312 in all, which are placed
upright, upside down, ninety degrees
to the wight or ninety degrees to the
left. The student is asked to indicate
under each one what he thinks its
position is, and at the bottom of the
chart to indicate what was his method

—The Hatchet.

of deciding.

    

E Light, £ Bo nerd

and Bees

As I sat in the Studley Library the
other day, looking about me I saw
studious Dalhousians, studying—or if
they weren't studying they were reading,
however they were using the library.
I was among the number. The day was
dark; rain lashed against the windows
driven by a hale Nor’Wester. Over the
hills past the Arm it came wrapping
Dalhousie in a veritable sea of slush.
The Library was dark. Unconsciously
I reached for the light cord, but it was
not there. I looked up. There was no
light at my desk. “moved to another desk but there was no light there.
On looking farther I found that all the
individual desk lights were missing.
Gone, we must read in the semi darkness
afforded by the few lights hung high
up amid the rafters of this Norman
Baronial Hall.

I had just come from the Gym,
where I had seen a few of the rough
spruce and hemlock boards used during
those dreaded days known as Examination days, and I began to wonder
what a College was. Webster soon
relieved me with: ‘‘A place intended
to aid students in their thirst after
knowledge.” There was no_enlightenment there so, having heard our institution called a University I decided
to look that up. University: ‘A group
of colleges.” There was no luck there
either, it was like leading back to a
false trail. College— ‘‘—intended to
aid students etc. I began to wonder,
is Dalhousie living under an assumed
name? Are we being aided in our
thirst after knowledge? The professors?
—Well what are professors? The name
I thought implied the meaning and
true enough. No, there was no fault
there, the professors were doubtlessly
doing there best. But, I thought,
there must be some cause for so many
Christmas failures. The professors were
not to blame—the students—well they’re
not coming to Dalhousie to loaf their
time away—it costs too much now even
even with the $7.00 Council fee. |
decided that there was only one cause
left—the accomodation. Ah think
that I hit the nail fair on the head that
time. How can we study without
proper accomodation? And if we did
have proper accomodation for study
how can we transfer our knowledge to
paper when we have to write on such
rough planks?

My thoughts drifted back to the
Studley Gym: It was about 11.15
A.M. on Dec. 15, 1927. I didn’t remember the weather but what I did
remember was: On my left an ambitious
young female with a fine new fountain
pen, the ink in which was loath to leave
it. On my right a rather corpulent
dental student with strong arms and an
eraser. The young female had the
idea that if she would strike the improvised desk hard enough with her
hand, thus jarring the pen, that perhaps the ink might flow. The husky
Dental student, drawing—with pencil
some huge molar, had a habit of making
mistakes which necessitated using the
eraser. Both were accustomed to sometimes rest their arms on the board,
sometime not. The result of such
actions was that the Hemlock boards
had a motion, resembling in’ no slight
degree the Atlantic during an equinoctial gale. My writing as it is, is
bad enough and I don’t think this
improved it much. However the whole
gymn was the same, from all parts came
the creaking of boards sliding on unsteady supports.

Result; Christmas failures high.

How can a student do his or her
best under such conditions? I suppose
I helped to make them worse, but we
all do it unsciously.

The spring examinations are not far
off and, I thought the only way to
redeem Christmas failures is to work
like a busy bee. How does a _ bee
work? Here are some facts conned
from the Encyclopaedia Brittannic
about bees and their chief product,
honey;

A clover blossom contains less than
one-eighth of a grain of sugar, 7,000
grains are required to make a pound of
honey. Now a poor vagabond bee
looking everywhere for sweetness will
have to visit approximately 56,000
clover heads to get this material. The
bee must insert its proboscos separately
into each floret, and there are about
60 of these to a clover blossom. Now
the bee in performing this tedious operation 60 times 56,000 or 3,360,000 times,
gets only enough nectar ie one pound
of honey—and then he doesn’t always
get the honey.

Let us be bees until April 25, 1928
and then sometime about May 15, 1928
we ll be reaping a bumper crop of honey.

—P.E.S

Mistakes

When an Engineer makes a mistake,
its just what he expected, because the
chances are ten to one that he never
learned his trade.

 

 

 

When an Electrician makes a mistake,
he blames it on induction, no one knows
what that means.

When a Broker makes a mistake, he
charges twice for it.

When a Lawyer makes a mistake, it
is just what he wanted, because he has
a chance to try the case all over again.

When a Judge makes a mistake, it
becomes law of the land.

When a Preacher makes a mistake,
nobody knows the difference.

When a Doctor makes a mistake, he
buries it.

But when a Professor makes a mistake

—well it just doesn’t happen, that’s

all.

POE: &

  
  
  

WANTED

While discussing Dalhousie and the
students of our college during the past
four months several people have asked,
“What's wrong with Dalhousie?” It
is quite evident that there is something
wrong. Glancing over the student
activities and organizations one realizes
there is some intangible quality that
the student bodies of other colleges
possess, but that Dalhousie lacks.

 

Studying for a degree is the ultimate
goal of a great part of the student body
who eventually earn their sheep-skin.
Consider for instance the most important college activity, outside of studying
—athletics. A few enthusiastic participants make the teams. There is
very little competition for a position
on any of the girl’s teams, and the
boys do not seem to make much more
effort. Let us assume for the sake of
argument that the teams are composed
of the best material the university has.
Games are scheduled and usually if one
glances at the notice-board it ‘will be
found that the game is advertized.
How many students turn out to support
the various teams? The Dalhousie
football squad was the only team that
aroused any enthusiasm among the
fans this year. There have been excellent games of both girls and boys
basketball and hockey but the attendance is far from overwhelming. The
effect of support at a game Is far greater
than most people realize. How do you
suppose the players feel about a game
if there is not a single supporter from the
university they are representing?

The Glee Club is the only student
activity which receives full support
from the students. It hxs been said
that the spectators at the shows are
there for the dancing which follows.
If this is true the performers should
feel flattered that such audiences grace
the show with the presence. A few
faithful followers of college theatricals
put on some very fair shows. If a
brave person ventures to perform some
stunt the real supporters of Glee Club
are grateful enough, but the rest think
that this really courageous student is
thrusting him or herself forward. The
competition for the shield is far from
keen. The orchestra, this year is
excellent, and the success is due to the
strenuous efforts of Mr. Singer. Five
years ago rehearsals were held on the
bleachers for the rooting at the football
games. The students turned out to
these practices. The conclusion is that
we can be thankful that this year we
have a strong enough team to win games
without the support of the so-called
“‘rooters.’

Sodales, the debating society, receives very little attention from anyone
but enthusiastic debaters. Less than
one hundred students attend the meetings. If you cannot try to make a
speech, you can at least go to the
meetings. of Sodales and hear some excellent views set forth: on interesting
subjects.

There is a very small attendance at
class meetings but the ignorance of the
recent important issue of the tendollar fee is astounding. Such a thing
as a pocket-book should be a necessary
article in the interest of the student
from a mercenary point of view, if not
from one of generosity and common
sense. A

mass meeting was held in
the gymnasium and about one hundred
and eighty students attended. How

are you to know whether to vote for
the ten-dollar fee or not if you do not
even take the trouble to find out why
the Student Council wants the extra
three dollars?

This absence of loyalty and interest
must indicate something. it it a lack of
college spirit. A serious problem faces
the university—how to restore the
college spirit which has existed and
faded and will exist again if the college
students would unite and pay respect
show enthusiasm, and put forth some
effort for their Alma Mater.

—$<$<$__4—
IMPERTINENT PARODIES

 

Blessings on thee, College Girl,
Bare-legged vamp with shingled curl,
With thy red lips kissed by all
Smeared with rouge and alcohol.
Pleated skirt, through which we see,
Nothing much, transparently.
No brassiere’s ‘neath your slim shoulder
God, what a shape when you get older.
Still, we love you, silly brat.
Lean back—kiss me—There—That’s
that.
—Geddee.

Sa lerdal ———_—<—_$_———

 

Special Volumes from our Sheet Music Department

at ONE DOLLAR

Standard Vocal Album of Tenor Songs

     

March 16th, 1928

ee

THE LIFE OF A
LITTLE COLLEGE

eae a en

A. MacDonald, Dalhousie graduate who is at present at St. John’s
College, Winnipeg, Man., has won one
of the overseas post- -graduate scholarships awarded by the Daughters of the
Empire. Mr. MacDonald will go to
Oxford next fall.

* * Xx

No exam lists posted yet but the
Library is filled between classes—a no
less infallible sign that it won't be long
now.

 
    

 

* * *

Chemistry Prof. erarply): “Ts there
any such thing as N H, L?’

Sleepy Freshman: 5 at eS; there is.’

Chemistry Prof.: ‘All right, es is
it made up of?”

Freshman: “Ottawa Senators, Boston
Bruins, Canadiens, Montreal Maroons,
Pitts

Chemistry Prof.: “All
know, thank you.’ rot

 

right, you

THE SPIRIT OF YOUTH

 

I put my lips to a rose and chewed its
leaves.
[ shook a squirrel down and tore my
pants;
Then went into the fields and pulled
corn leaves
to smoke it at the ant’s.
And in a tree-top comfortably, I shouted
to a lady, ‘“‘Go to Hell!”’

—G. C.W.

SONNET TO AN UNFORTUNATE
WINDOW

My Window Pane, thou once clear sheet

Of shimmering reese) how many
tales

Couldst thou unfold! To thee the gales

Of Icy January, Gusty March’s sleet,

November's chill, and fiery August’s

heat

Neglecting studies,

males

Oft used to lamp through thee the
passing frauls.

Now is this lively life of thine complete,

Yea, ended; and thy usefulness is o'er!

Admit it, Hoary Window, you are
croaked:

For in thy former clearness I desery

A fatal blemish never there of yore,—

A jagged marring hole where someone
oked

His head through thee. Thank God,
it wasn’t I!

 

Were one. many

—Geedee.

ACADIA GAME

On Friday, March ninth, the fourth
game of the Girls’ Intercollegiate Basketball league was played at Wolfville
between Acadia and Dalhousie.

The game was fast. throughout and
was the best exhibition of girls’ basketball that has been produced this year
in the intercollegiate league. It was
evident that the Acadia forwards
were superior to those of Dalhousie.
Fast and accurate shooting were the
feature of the game, but the Dal guards
held the star local forwards to a score
that might have been much greater.
The whole Dalhousie team put forth
their best effort and their combination
was much better than that of Acadia.
The forwards did well when they received the ball from the centers and
seldom failed to make a tally.

The first . toss-up indicated that
Acadia had to hustle if they intended
to win the game. It took a few minutes
for the Dal centers to get their bearings
and learn the signals of the opposing
side. As soon as they had accomplished this the scoring was alternative.
Acadia had a ten point lead when the
first period ended with a score of 20—10.

The second half started with a rush,
the Dal gi. .ls determined to stage a
come-back. The Dal team scored
several baskets and finally tied the
score. The Dal players then weakened
a little and left an opening for Acadia
to again leap into the lead. Play was
fast and the Dal girls fought until the
final whistle. It can be said that there
were never better sports than our girls
who played hard with defeat almost
inevitable when the second period got
under way. The final score was 35-20
with Acadia leading.

 

Line-up:

Centres: J. Dumaresq, E. Cameron.

Guards: B. Freeman, L. Barnstead.

Forwards: A. McCurdy, I. Wood,
A. Atherton

 

Standard ‘ Contralto Songs
Standard ‘ ‘* “Baritone Songs

Standard ‘ ‘* "Bass songs fr
Standard ‘ “ “Trish Songs |
Standard ‘“ “ "Scottish Songs :

Choice Songs for low voice ;
The Collegian Song Book f
Album of Standard Overtures for Piano
Artists Repertoire for Pianoforte
| Johann Strauss Dance Music for Pianoforte
| Schirmer Album of Twenty-five Piano Classics
Mail order given prompt attention

We would appreciate your inquiries for anything you may need in Music. |

454 BARRINGTON ST.

 

te. Sy

   
 

and only then oute! All our operators

tes — experts — in
ase of Beauty Culture,
_all equipment is modern

the smallest detail.
Your patronage is solicited,
id we warrant complete sat_ isfaction from a manicure to

|] a permanent wave.

Phone S. 3830 for appointment

OD BROS Co.,
Limited

ay.
*,

es our Low Price
Doubly Attractive

“SUITS, OVERCOATS |

FULL DRESS and
TUXEDO, at one

price

‘24

MADE TO-MEASURE

Tip Top Tailors |

THE STUDENTS’ TAILORS
TRAMWAY BUILDING
Barrington and Sackville Sts

The Greatest Asset of a busaness 18 to give customers
what they want—when
they want it.

JOB AND SOCIETY PRINTING

always delivered when
promised at the

| NOVA PRINT Ltd

227-229 Hollis Street
One Block North of Post Office

 

 

PIANOS, VICTROLAS,

Small Musical  Instruments and Victor Records

«| We invite you to join our

| FICTION LENDING: LIBRARY

2 cents per day

| MeDonald Music Co.

93 Barrington St. Halifax

 

 

    

CLASS
JEWELLERY

We enjoy the distinction of
making practically all Dalhousie
Class Jewellery.

We appreciate the trust placed
in us by the Dalhousie students
and in turn always assure them
of our very best service.

HENRY BIRKS & SONS
LIMITED
Diamond Merchants HALIFAX

    
         
     
     
       
    
  
  

   

    
 

YELLOW CAB
LIMITED
SAC. 4444

Halifax’s Only Metered
Service
Same Rates 24 Hours.

Two travel for same as one.
More than two, 20 cents extra,

        
     
       
        
     
      
 
 
 
  
  

   

CENTRAL—The nearest Barber Shop to the College.

SERVICE—Always four exper- ienced barbers in attendance

Satisfaction Guaraniced

Special Bobbing Parlors
| For Ladies

 
       
         
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

    

      
 
 

  

=
_—

1928 Style
i ilk and Wool Socks

-450c a pair

mw tes

 
 

Sg SA) te
seer mPa N

  
  
 
 
 
 
  

 

oe

‘Maritime

ONLY LOST TWO OUT OF TWELVE COMPETITIVE DEBATES— ENTERTAINED

oo

— f} OurHigh Quality Standard_|

  
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
  
  

   

7
Py ee am
= hos {ps a a
6 re et AO al ck =
- ; yates

_ e % f + 7 *
% .: Pe on P oa fe
a.

By Emest AC. Howse

The very fact that the Maritime Debating tour took so much time is one
of the reasons why can now
give little time to writing about it.
A hasty review of our itinerary, a brief
summary of the results, and possibly
a comment or two in conclusion is all
that I can attempt.

The members of the team were
Elbert Paul, Acadia, (leader) Hazen
Fulton, U. N. B., and myself. We met
for the first time on Jan. 29th at Fredericton, N. B. The next day we spent
in hastily arranging our argument for
the first debate and in appointing to
each man his particular share.

 

ed the train for Lennoxville, Quebec.

to approximately fifty dollars.

day made a very auspicious commencement to our series of visits. That
evening we debated against a National
Scheme of Education for Canada.
The decision of both judges and audiences went in our favor. Heartened
ee we started out for Montreal.
An especial interest centered in our
debate with the University of Montreal,
as our opponents were Frenchmen who
spoke English—and spoke it well,
in fact spoke it to so much better effect
than we did, that they won the debate.
But they had proved themselves such
thoughtful and generous hosts that we
were perfectly willing to lose a decision
in order that we might have the priviledge of meeting them, and of learning
so much of interest about the greatest
French college in Canada.

Montreal was the only city in which

we had two debates. The next evening
we debated at McGill when we were
more fortunate and by a very able
rebuttal by our leader, were saved from
defeat.
With a batting average of two to one
we now moved on to the historic city
of Kingston and to Queens University.
But two men on a side took part here,
and Paul and I debated for the Maritimes. Although we were arguing
that sport is not carried to excess in
Canadian University life, our audience
was somewhat small because a basketball team with supporters had left the
city, and a class party and a large
hockey game were going.on at the same
time in the city. Our opponents did
not fail to point out this. However
the judges decided two to one that it
is carried to excess. Immediately after
the decision we rushed off to see the
finish of the hockey game.

To this point on the tour we had had
four debates with four different universities in four successive nights. We
were glad indeed to rest over the week
end at Toronto. We recuperated a
couple of days at Hart House, and on
Tuesday set out for London to meet the
University of Western Ontario. Again
we were debating on Education and the
decision was given to us. Apart from
the debate altogether, our trip to London was quite delightful and we found
our opponents most agreeable entertainers.

Coming back to Toronto,we took part
in a Hart House debate conducted on
the parliamentary style but there was
no element of competition between the
University and ourselves. At this debate we meet Lieut-Governor Ross,
Prof. Norman A. MacKenzie,and other
well known Maritimers and Dalhousians.

While at Toronto we discovered that
it was not more expensive to go to
Regina by way of Chicago and St.
Paul than by the Canadian route.
We were able also to arrange for a day
in each of these cities and yet arrive
in Regina in time for our debate. Consequently our itinerary was made the
more interesting by this unexpected
addition.

Our Western debates began at Regina.
Here we were debating with the Kewanis and Y. M. C. A. Clubs. Previous
to the debate we were given a complimentary luncheon by the Maritime
Club, at which we met a great number
of ex-graduates and again heard our
college yells enthusiastically given. Dalhousie Law School was _ particularly
well represented. At the debate in
which we argued against the Installment System of Buying, the judges
decision went against us and as their
decision is official we lost. But we
nevertheless won an audience vote of
300 to 190 and Regina gave us, moreover, one of the most pleasant of all
our visits, so we were quite content.

Saskatoon next and the University
of Saskatchewan, of which the President is an ex-Dalhousie professor.
Here, with delightful Western weather
in a delightful Western city we remained
for over a day and to compensate for
our loss at Regina, we won at the
evening debate. Again, as was usual
when we debated on sport,the Dalhousie
Gazette and the tour of the football
team became targets for a good many
of the fiery darts of the wicked.

Two evenings afterward we debated
the University of Alberta in Edmonton.
For the last time we debated on sport
and as a pleasant change our opponents
argued that Sport meant not only
athletes, but other diversions such as
dancing, music, talking in the corridors
with members of the opposite sex, and
even ‘‘necking”. As 1 was not competent to speak on the progress of some
of these “sports” in Eastern Universities we were somewhat handicapped
by this approach. However we won
the decision of both audience and judges,
so that it may now be said with authority that “‘necking’’ is not carried to
excess in Canadian Universities,

ey fre
——_.
ee

‘ ; In the
evening considerably excited we board
A pleasant incident in parting occurred
when a number of his class mates presented to Hazen Fulton as a token of
good will a purse, collected from the
students and Faculty, and amounting

Students of Bishop's University were
waiting to meet us the next morning at
Lennoxyille, and their ‘cordial hospitality and entertainment throughout the

_em
*

=

ne ae ee fo igeey er MENS. By eG a
< ~~. } se yo Pe 4 . a x ‘

cece ie
me

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

 

 

 
   
 
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
    
   
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
   
  
 

Pad Goad Trib

 

Ernest M Howse, w'o was Dalhous-es
representat.ve on the Maritime
Debai ng Team

 

At Edmonton also we won a new
epithet. In previous. places we had
been described ironically as the Three
Wise Men from the East. One of the
speakers here said that after hearing
us debate he was reluctantly compelled
to change his mind, and concluded that
after learning our restricted view, we
seemed to him to resemble rather those
three gentlemen in Literature the ‘Three
Men in a Tub.”

Victoria, with green grass and flowers
was the next place for debate. We
were so charmed with the island that we
almost resolyed to stay. But we had
an appointment at at Vancouver and
were forced to leave again. The debate
here was again a two man debate and
again the fates happened to be in our
favor. The Pathe representative made
his appearance as we were leaving and
while we bade good-bye to our opponents and boarded the steamer for the
first lap homewards he solemnly cranked his camera to turn out pictures for
the future pleasure (?) of movie goers.

At the University of British Columbia
the debate was again a two-man debate.
This time we were debating on the
instalment plan but on the side opposite
to which we debated at Regina. To
prove that Truth alone conquers both
judges and audience voted that we won.
After the debate,we made an excursion
into Vancouver's Chinatown and went
into a Chinese theatre, a most surprising
place, where plays last day after day,
blissfully continuing through an incessant and hideous din kept up by an
orchestra, consisting mostly of brass
cymbals about three feet in diameter.
We decided not to wait for the conclusion of the play, or we might have
been there yet, and coming out we went
into Jap town and ate a many coursed
meal. Of .several of the dishes | am
cheerfully ignorant and I have a certain
suspicion that too intimate knowledge
might be embarrassing.

Back now through the _ glorious
Rockies, with a day off at Banff to view |
the stupendous mountains in the vicinity |
and to visit the sulphur springs which
kept amid snow and ice an even temperature of 98 degrees.

Next we struck Calgary and another
debate on the Instalment System
Here again the Maritime Club gave us
a reception and | met many an ardent
old Dalhousian, and here we learned
again some of the ‘Secret History of
the Football Tour.”. Never mind fellows, | shall be discreet. The debate
was the last two man debate and here
again the decision was given to the
Maritimes.

A sigh of relief at our next stop for
Winnipeg was our last debate. We|

debated Education with a three man|

team. The crowd was small but had
quite a Maritime flavor. The chairman,
as it happened quite frequently on our
tour, was an ex-Dalhousian. For the
last time the decision of the judges
is given to the Maritimers and we feel
almost young again. The debates are
over.

To sum up: these were held altogether
thirteen debates. Of these thirteen,
twelve were competitive. Of these
twelve the Maritime Team lost two and
won ten. In eight of these ten it was
given the unanimous decision of the
judges. In more of the debates (the
majority) where an audience vote was!
taken did the Maritime team lost the
audience vote.
debates where the judges decision was
adverse the audiences was strongly
favorable. Dalhousie has therefore been
in teh winning debates this year.

The debates however was not the

9,

our visits we were most generously and
graciously received.

Finally the primary duty of the
Maritime team was not to win debates
but to help bring the Federated Universities into a closer acquaintance with
one another, so that with the closer
acquaintance there might be better
understanding, and with beste understanding more orderly and _ united
progress in the achievement of the
aims of the Federation. The West
certainly gave largely to us. We hope
we have managed to give a little in
resurn.

 

NOTICE

The nest issue of The Gazeite will be the last for 1928-28.
[n order that the winners of
prizes in the literary competition may be published in that}
issue it is necessary that all
copy be on hand early. All
contributions should be in the
ihands of Gazette represent-|
latives before next Monday|
noon. This is your last chance
to contribute to-the Gazette
|this term. Take the oppor-|
tunity at once.

 

 

 

 

| eel

 

Te The-Poie.

 

Sir:—In the columns of your last
issue was a report of the student council
elections signed by one P. O. H. In
that report is the following: ‘‘It is felt
with the defeat of Jennings and Winfield that Medicine lost an opportunity
for the presidency of the Council.”
While it is to be admitted that both
Messrs Jennings and Winfield would

Debaters Triumph In West!

%

: Opening of the periodic journey of a little |
have been splendid additions to the} fish hook and.divers documents. No-}]

 

REFLECTION

-what if you do brin

the unexpected gues
home to dinner and the
wife gives you the icy glare

} ~you Cana Tee

yourself ‘Well

pass or get out, and a P. S. at the end
of the letter “‘....As Shakespeare said.
If at first you don’t succeed, give up’ ’’,

It was customary in those days to
sign examination papers with “I have
neither given nor received information.”
What to do? Thoughts came into his
head and jumped out like water off a}
duck’s back.

Oft and anon and on and off he thou
 

ght of putting a revolver to his head, |}

but finally he resolved, rather evolved
a scheme by which he could attach a
string under his seat so that he could
manipulate it to and from a colleague's |
seat in back. A ‘fish hook
fastened to the string to transport the}

precious notes from the seat behind. !§

The day of the exam marked the official !

Council yet Medicine has elected one’ body knew what was going on—not

who is competent for the Presidency of
any body, even that of the Students
Council, | refer to Dr. C. M. MacKenzie.
Dr. MacKenzie is a man much older
in years and experience than any undergraduate in Dalhousie. He graduated
from Harvard with a degree of D. D. S.
and has practised that profession several
years. He is now in his fourth year in
Medicine. His knowledge and _ experience makes him competent to serve as a
member of the Council and it was those
abilities that he was elected with a
vote of seventy-two by Medicine.
It is plain that Mr. P. O. H.-did not
have such knowledge of the members
elected by Medicine, as would warrant
the above statement in his report.
Thenking you Mr. Editor.

I remain,
E. Stirling Giddings

 

Is Popular

Fred C. Jennings, Popular Dalhoustan—
Editor of the Gazette and next year’s
president of the Newman Club who
has been confined to his bed
during the past week with a
severe cold. A host of friends
wish him a speedy recovery.

 

Suggested Titles

And in one of the two| ON THE RECEIVING END

ANOTHER FISH STORY
THE CAPTAIN RECEIVES

whole of the trip. At Vancouver Mr.| (Take your choice. Only one to a reader)

Paul spoke to the Men’s Canadian
Club, giving to a large audience in the
Vancouver Hotel an address that was
in many ways the best that we heard
on the tour. Paul was consistently
good and at times brilliant. He was,
as I think Fulton will agree, not only
the ablest of the Maritimers but |
believe the ablest of all we heard on
the tour. Being more of a ladies man
Mr. Fulton on the same day addressed
about seven hundred and fifty members
of the Women’s Canadian Club.

Much might be said also of the various banquets, afternoon teas, and
luncheons at which we were so_generously entertained. At Victoria we were
invited to the government House on

This story occurred less thana quire
and four simoleons ago, some umpteen
years B. P. In those days. football
captains were B. V. D. and got thru
on scholarships. Moreover, this particular captain of whom this concerns,
had not only a peculiar leaning toward
honesty ever since he read about G. W.
and the cherry tree, but also a conscience that followed him about like
a hungry cat after a fish cart.

To make a short story longer, our
captain lived through sixteen football
games, twenty-eight newspaper articles,
and a scandal, and finally came to take
his X’s.

Arrived a momentuous morning which
presented him with a missile from the

the afternoon of our arrivaj, ,;¢ all| Dean notifying him that he would either

 

 

 

even the professors. |
all good things, the exam | ff
Whereupon our cap- |}
tain brushed his hands, wiped the honest | |
sweat from his brow, wetted the bus- | #

Even as
came to an end.

iness end of the stump of a pencil and
signed, black on white, and as big as
F. McK.—"T got this on my own hook.”’

 

N. B.—B. P. Before prohibition
B. V. D. Born very dumb
G. W. Abraham Lincoln
X's Necessary evils
F. McK. A celebrity about
the campus.. F. stands for ‘Adipose.’
P. S. Pretty slick

Sit ats

—M. L. K.

 

George F. Power
Cigars, Cigarettes, Tobacco

 

SMOKERS’ REQUISITES
of every Description
—Also—

Cards, Souvenirs of Halifax
Majestic Bldg.

HALIFAX, N. S.

 

NOTICE!

Special Students’ Discount

CONDONS

Mien’s Store

As Usual

The best in Ice Creams, Con
fectionery and Meals, as wel!

as courtesy} efficent service and

attractive surroundings are to
be had at

The Green Lantern

    

  

lt You Want

SEE WALLACE

OPTOMETRIST AND OPTICIAN
Y.M.C. A. BLDG. HALIFAX,N.S

 
    

 
  

FREEMAN’S

PHARMACY

    
 

Ice Cream Bricks
35c.

We will send a Brick
anywhere at anytime.

    
   
    

COR. COBURG and HENRY

    
 

 

 
  
 

was then,

  
 

   

  
 
     
  

f

4

OF REX

SAVE THE
=. POKER HANDS

1% x
r :
at is

 

ts SONG SHOP te.
for ANYTHING in

MUSIC

22 Spring Garden Rd.
Halifax, : : Canada

HE PRINTING DEPARTMENT of the
Imperial Publishing Co.,
Limited, is famous for the
quality of its press work,
on Booklets, Catalogues,
and all kinds of Job Fvrint
ing.
Telephone Sackville 1017

 
       

 
     

'
'

        
       
     
 
 
 
 
 

STUDENTS’ ELECTRIC
LAMPS AND SUPPLIES

FARQUHAR BROS. LTD.

Barrington Street

      
  

 
  

95 Argyle St. Phone Sack. 195

The RossPrint Ltd

Printers, Publishers, Bookbinders
We Specialize in Society Printing of all kinds, such as
INVITATIONS
ANNOUNCEMENTS
DANCE PROGRAMS

Etc. Etc.

Always first in quality
Very moderate prices

Publishers of

Cameron’s ‘‘Regional Anatomy’’
Cameron’s*‘Osteology & Arthology’

 

    
       
   
   
   
   
   
      

 

 

  
 

YOU CAN BUY

SOCIETY
BRAND
CLOTHES

IN HALIFAX AT

Winter-Burns Ltd

437 BARRINGTON STREET

 
     
   
   
      
   
  
    

NOVA SCOTIA
NURSERY

1088to1090 Barrington St.

—THREE PHONES—
Cut

     
        

     

all

 
 

Flowers, Bouquets and
Floral Work.

 

   
 

MacLEOD, BALCOM

—DRUGGISTS—
S STORES

34 Morris St. 174 Spr. Garden Rd.
103 Young St. 139 Agricola St.
Cor. Quinpool Rd. and Oxford St.

HALIFAX, N.S.

    
   
     
       
    
 

|'COLLEGE COLORS
We have a good supply of our
distinctive DAL Stationery.
Neat size crest, die stamped in
} yellow and black on high class
parchment paper, club size, with
| envelopes stamped to match, suit: able for ladies or gentlemen.

1 Sold in bulk only, buy any quantity you require.

Faulkner’s Book Store

16 Spring Garden Road

       
   
   
   
   
   
      
 
   
   
  
 
  

 
   

mf. ae = i

   
   

merce Basketball five defeated
won the 1928 Interfaculty |
ship. The game was play
turday and the Studley gym
scene of one of the best cone an af the mg A haage
Bek attended the game and were we
satisfied Hh the fied of Basketball
ony period produced the fastest
of the game andithe winners exeee oe ru src pare aaibae See
of the spectators this session containe
- the best Interfaculty basketball of the
en: season. The Commerce boysi-certainly
mew = displayed fine® form® andg when the
a wehaerla sounded they had a 13—4jlead.
The second§ half, although not as
fast as the first, was exciting from start
to _finis he Meds improved and
- their defense, which had failed to functjon up to formin the initial period,
worked overtime and the Commerce
team were only able to score six points.
Play was rather rough with the Meds
the chief offenders. The Medicals outscored their opponents in this session
ss but ~were unable to overcome their
lead and the game ended 19—14 in
-—— favour of the Commerce team. |
+ oe For the champions, Miller, Olive and
McCall were the best. Between them
they contributed all but one of their
team’s points. For the losers Richardson and Hewat lead in_ scoring. Ed
__ Brown refereed in fine style.
foe. |. |The line-ups:—
—---——-s Commerce: R. Slayter; R. Laurence;
_--G. Mahon; M. Rankin 1; L. Miller 7;
ss Olive 6; MacColl 5; K. Harriss.
1 ——s Medicine: Cheeseman 2; Douglass 3;
ary Benet $; Richardson 4; MacLean;
tei Oss.

 
  
    
 
   
       
    
   
 
   
  
    
 
    
 
    

fs > >

   
   
  
    
  
 
   
    
   
   
  
 
  
 
  
  
 

 
    

Nes 0 Both the Dal Senior Basketball squad
bee and the Senior Hockey outfit have
completed their seasons activities and
a glance back over their records show
ae, that, in both cases, the results were
better than were at first expected.

- --* The Hockey team looked very weak
at the beginning of the season and were
considerably weaker when the results
of the Christmas exams became known.
_ Despite this the team made a creditable
showing in all except one of their games
and improved greatly as the season
grew old. They forced the strong

St. Mary’s team into overtime and
held the U. N. B. sextette to a 1—0
~—~—s score. +=This latter feat was no mean

-_—__ -task as the U. N. B. boys gave the reee _ nowned St. F. X. team a hard game for
ny - the Intercollegiate championship not
_ long after. Nearly all of the players
showed considerable individual imp-—s- rovement and the team as a whole
_—s benefited steadily under the coaching

  
      
   
  
 
   
   
   
   
 
 
  
   
      
 

t

  
  
  
    
  
   
 
      

of Harry Butler. The team as well as
‘the college owes a debt to the ever
| —s active “Manager of the team, Eddie
_.. Murray, for the time and care he spent

 

on his players.
~~ * The Basketball quintette also improved with the growth of the season.
_-——s«* Tn their final game with the Technical
College they won out with two of their
best men missing from their line-up.
Plus the services of George Murphy
they were a threat in all of their games
with the league winning Y team. Without him they were considerably weaker,
but, nevertheless, able to give the Tech
squad a trimming and the Acadia team
a hard run for honours. Manager
George Macintosh ran his team in
fine style and had their best interests
at heart at all times.

  
  
 


— > —_

 

 

The coast-to-coast tour to be made
next summer by the Maritime College
Players is now almost a guaranteed
success. Extensive arrangements have
already been made, even in the towns
and cities of the far west. The fame of
the trip is evident from the fact that
or some students at American universities
have sent in applications to be included

COAST-TO-COAST TOUR

 
   
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
   
 
 
   
  
 
 
   
  
  
 
 
 

fe in the Players.
iste The large bus in which the students
Xe are to travel is being renovated so as
me to make it as accomodating as possible.
Last year the Players were particularly
noted for their baseball team, which was
one of the fastest in Canada. This
r, while there will still be a good
yall team, it has been thought advisable
~ to concentrate on the dance orchestra
as the principal drawing-card and source
of revenue.
The orchestra will have twelve playNid ers; about eight excellent musicians
have already been selected from the
various colleges. The instrumentation
will probably be as follows: three saxophones, two violins, two trumpets,
i. _ trombone, bass, banjo, drums and
at iy piano. Owing to the tremendous exha pense of maintaining such a large]
____ orchestra it is being arranged to divide
con it into two sections in places such as the
__- ‘Middle West where there are a great
many towns too small to make the
entire orchestra pay for itself.

take place on the night of the last day
of regular exams at Dal, when a big
__ dance will be held at the Masonic Hall.
_ Following this, after a short tour of the
_ larger towns on the South Shore, the
estra will cpeess, <aatn in Halifax,
at the Waegwoltic. From
e Pla
fro

  

‘Players will proceed to Cape

roronto |
ouver they intend to return

 

to thirteen

The premiere of the orchestra will |

Cape Breton to Amherst

ross Cana adh. They will .

about July ist and] ]| Barrington St.,
When they | |

  

The final Dalhousie Amateur Athletic Club méeting for the year was an
extremely quiet affair as compared with
last year's. Presentation of ‘‘D’s,” elections of next year’s officers and a presentation to Ronald Fielding were the
features of the occasion. 2

The meeting o ned, to a fairish
attendance, with President Tupper in
the chair. After the reading of the
minutes a resolution, to be submitted
‘to the Students’ Council was passed
‘recommending that managers or secretaries of the D, A. A. C. be allowed
greater control of their own finances.

Mr. Tupper then called on the various
managers to present their reports.

Mr. Winfield presented his report on
the football season. He gave a summary of games won and lost and the
Vancouver trip. In closing he thanked
the captain, Aubrey Tupper, the asst.
manager, Murray Fraser, and the
members of the team. :

Mr. Murray then gave his report on
hockey. He stressed the lack of support
which his team had received from the
student body and expressed himself
as well pleased with the way the team
had played in the face of many difficulties.

Mr. Mackintosh then gave a report
on basketball; he outlined the games
played and trips taken. :

Leigh Miller was then asked to give a
report on the track team and received
a rousing hand. Mr. Miller spoke of
the various meets in which his team
had participated and pointed out that
it had been their biggest season in
years.

Mr. Sperry reported on the Interfaculty# leagues, Football, Basketball
and Hockey.

President Tupper then
“T's” to the following:

Football

MacLeod
Jones
Murphy
MacDonald
Langstroth
Hewat
Sutherland
Wickwire
A. Smith
F. Smith
Irving
Dunlop
Baird
Campbell
Mitchell
Townsend
Tupper
Hockey
Ferguson
McCunn
Godsoe
Taylor
Power
Foley
Sangster
Doyle

Basketball
MacLeod
Langstroth
A. Smith
Ross
Sperry
Davison
Jones

Track
Lee Miller
MacRae
MacDonald

presented

Next followed A rather luke-warm
election of officers and had it not been
for a slate of nominations prepared by
a special committee we might be yet
waiting for a D. A. A. C. executive.

J. McG. Stewart was once more
elected Honorary President.

The other results were as follows:

President—Bill Wickwire

Vice-President—Tom Parker

Secretary—John MacQuarrie

Football Mgr— Murray Fraser

Asst. Football Mgr.—Stirling Gidd
ings

Hockey Manager—Eddie Murray

Asst. Hockey Mgr.—Fat Mackenzie

 

Basketball Mgr.—George Mackintosh |

Track Mgr.—Rand Matheson

Ronald M. Fielding, who did so much
to make the trip possible, was then
presented with a fine leather brief-case
as a sign of the boys’ appreciation.

In replying, Mr. Fielding compliment- {
ed Mr. Winfield for his untiring work | §
in making the trip a success and told]

BUTTONS ON
RENTS MENDED
HOLES DARNED

That's the service you get
free when you send YOUR
Laundry to Ungar’s.

VALETERIA

A new pressing Service:
Your Suit or Overcoat
Steam Cleaned and Pressed, for 75c or 4 Tickets
for $2.00.

NECKTIES cleaned 10c.

UNGAR’S

Halifax, N.S.

Sack 428 Har. 127
LAUNDERING DYEING
CLEANING VALETERIA

HEAD OF DALHOUSIE A. A. C.

PRESENTATION MADE TO R. M. FIELDING

 

Pa a . ye Ey r i F :
ae, 2 ie on , ee, :
ss ae fg kt 1 ita ee "Fri tr
. : Pree Pod

: ae ohn a ar Peik

_ DALHOUSIE

 

 

 

of the generous support he had received from old Dalhousians. He then
went on to say how much he had enjoyed going to Vancouver with the team:
*T never travelled with a better bunch
of fellows” said Mr. Fielding, ‘‘than the
boys who were on that trip’’ (applause)
Mr. Fielding said that he would always
regard the brief case as an emblem of

luck and intended to take it into court

with him next day to bring him success
in the case on which he was working—
(Great applause).

A managing committee for next year
was appointed consisting of Professors
Wilson and Read.

Albert Smith, Arts.

Morris MacKinnon, Law.

Bunker Murphy, Medicine.

MacLeod, Dentistry

Newman Club
Elects Officers

The Newman Club held their final
meeting of the year, in the Knight’s
of Columbus Hall, last Sunday. The
financial report was rendered by the
Treasurer, arrangements were made
for a Communion Breakfast, and, most
important of all, the officers and executive for next year were elected.

The newly’ elected officers

Pres.—Fred Jennings

Vice-Pres.—Miss M. Dunsworth

Secty.-Treas.—Duncan MacLellan

Representatives of the various faculties were elected as follows:

Arts: Miss K. Hanifen and R. A.
Donahoe.

Med.—Bernie Miller.

Dent.—O. Taylor.

Law.—Alec MacKinnon.

Technical College: G. Clark.

Following the election of the new
officers, a hearty vote of thanks was
moved to the retiring ones, to Rev.
Fr. MacCarthy the Chaplain who was
forced to resign having been transferred to Bermuda, and to Rev. Fr.
Burns his successor.

The meeting was well attended and
the enthusiasm evinced augurs well for
next years success, particulaly in view
of the new staff which was elected.

——

AT THE MAJESTIC THURSDAY,
FRIDAY AND SATURDAY

 

were.

 

Ronald Coleman in a dual role as
circus performer and prince!

Vilma Banky in tights and tulle and
then in superb evening gowns.

Ronald Coleman more handsome,
more spirited, more virile than ever!

Vilma Banky, the glorious, as the
reigning queen of beauty and bewitchment!

Look forward to the thrill of your
lifetime when you see Coleman and
Banky in their ravishing new romance,
“The Magic Flame.”

Never before has the power and stirring human appeal of this ‘‘Romeo and
Juliet of the Screen” reached as telling
an expression as in ““The Magic Flame”
produced for Samuel Goldwyn by Henry
King.

Action, Drama,

Love, Adventure,

| Lavish Atmosphere—a very  kaleid
oscope of sentiment and glamor and
downright rousing entertainment—await
you in ‘“The Magic Flame.” #

This is the picture you will rave about
to your friends, and about which your
friends will rave to you!

ee

Class '28 will hold a meeting on
Tuesday, March 20, for the election of
Life Officers. Will Everybody Please
Come.

&
oe
ae
=i Ses
ery.

—

x

MODERN

PRINTING
t

a
MODERATE
CosT

iT. C. Allen & Co.

124 & 126 Granville Street

PROGRAMMES
and other JOB PRINTING

receive our special attention

The ROYAL PRINT & LITHO Ltd.

 

   
 
  
 
 
  
    
 
   
   

  
 

 
     

Say it with Flowers, Say it with ours
THE HOME OF

Cut Flowers & Potted Plants

We make up Funeral Designs,
also Wedding Bouquets. We also
do Table Decorating. We are the
only members of the T. F. D.
Florists. We can wire Flowers
to all parts of the world.

The Roserp

8 BLOWERS ST.
Phone Sac. 3321-3322
Night Phone Sac. 1934

    
     
  
 
 

  
   
  
 
 

   
 
   
 

 
  
   

    
    
 
   

 
 
    
   

  
 

  

eo. 4
ie ee Nhe

GAZETTE eS

With Ries and

r i
a 2
a ? ja

f tl f
F Pe
oe ee Te
Ce ate se ‘

i ry ‘ a .

j ) : ? (a vie = , « Sa

ee aw I Ris) tn -_ .

rs if F a : P %

; ik 7 os ‘ “ - t

2:

Paste Pot

Radcliffe 50 years old.

Plans are being made for the celebration in 1929 of the fiftieth anniversary of the founding of Radcliffe College

for women.
—The Hatchet.

 

N. B. Champs.

Playing a brand of ball that indieates real championship calibre, Mt.
Allison defeated U.N.B. in Fredericton
by the decisive score of 43 to 16. The
winning of this game gives to the Mt.
A. basketeers the intercollegiate title
and the championship of the New
Brunswick league. Next in line are
the play-off games with Saint John
Trojans for the right to play the Nova
Scotia champions for the Maritime
title.

—The Argosy.

Yale News Jubilee.

The Yale News, the oldest daily college newspaper, is celebrating this year
the fiftieth anniversary of its founding.
Several old grads have written articles
concerning this paper.

William Howard Taft of the Class of
1878 tells of the founding of the paper
He says: ‘“‘The News was founded in
18/8 by Frank McDonald.”

—McGill Daily.

To Sing For Lindbergh.

Technology's Glee Club has _ been
signally honored by the National Education Convention, now being held in
Boston, in that it has been invited by
the Convention to appear on the program with Col. Charles A. Lindbergh
and his mother tomorrow night. Robert
S. Harris, leader of the Glee Club has
announced that the Club will sing ‘‘The
Nightingale,” by Tchaikovsky, together
with five other selections for the Lind
berghs.
—The Tech.

TUE enna

JOHN GILBERT COMING TO THE
CASINO

 

Jeanne Eagels, famous on the stage
as star of ‘‘Rain,” ‘‘Daddies,” ‘The
Cardboard Lover’ and other plays,
makes her screen debut opposite John
Gilbert in the latter’s new starring
vehicle ‘‘Man, Woman and Sin,” which
will be shown at the Casino Theatre
next Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday.
It is a vivid story of newspaper life in
Washington, much of it actually
filmed at the national capital, with a
notable cast.

Commerce
Society
Crested Stationery

NEW
STYLE

FARRELL’S

391 Barrington St.

A Complete Book—Stationery
and Gift Shop Service

WINNERS "Start
Start
For 60 years the REACH Trade
Mark on Sporting Goods has been
a mark of perfection. No matter
what your favorite sport may be, we
can supply you with equipment that
will help you play the game with

the best that’s in you.

CRAGG BROS., CO.,LTD.

Hardware and Sporting Goods
HALIFAX, N. S.

DRY CLEANING, DYING AND

 

 

   

PRESSING
VALET
4 Tickets - = - ~ $2.00
52 Sackville Street, Phone S$ i09

 

—S

 

To readers of
The Dalhousie Gazette

we recommend
. 4 |
Kinley's
THE REXAL
DRUG STORE >

For everything in

Drug Store Needs

499 Barrington Street
Phone Sack. 61

 

 

March 16th, 1928

————$——$——_—_—_——_————————————— —

a

MARY PICKFORD AT ORPHEUS|

 

Brilliant, merry little Mary Pickford
in the fastest and most amusing sweetheart film ever flashed upon the screen!
At the Orpheus March 19, 20, 21 and 22.

Here's positively the treat of the
season, and it’s called ‘‘My Best Girl.”

Mary herself is just that—‘‘the
world’s sweetheart’? and everybody's
“Best Girl.” And here she plays a
role that has everything that the world ||
ever imagined for the irresistible elfin
Mary.

For she plays the heroine of Kathleen
Norris’ hilarious, yet tenderly sentimental, five-and-ten cent store romance—
a magnificent adventure in love, played
as only Mary Pickford can play a comedy
drama for the screen.

Funnier than ‘‘Little Annie Rooney,”
sweeter than ‘Dorothy Vernon. of
Haddon Hall,” more stirring than
‘Tess of the Storm Country.”

Get ready to roar with laughter, but
keep your handkerchief handy to dab
away a tiny tear or two.

THU. FRI. & SAT.

THE MAGIC FLAME}
RobAld Caliban oe Vilas Bonkky

ADDED ATTRACTION
Jensen and Mills

Spring Style Show
Every evening at nine o’clock
COMEDY NEWS REEL
MON. TUE. & WED.

THE PRIVATE LIFE
Of Helen of Troy

‘*THE FIRST
FLAPPER QUEEN”? |

CASINO

THIS THU-FRI-SAT.

 

 

 

Bob J ohnson’s

.TWO BOBBER SHOPS
~ FIRST CLASS SERVICE

The Home of the Shingle

| MAJESTIC THEATRE
BUILDING
and

Corner GEORGE and Stan Laurel and Oliver Hardy
BARRINGTON STS.

IN
Don’t Neglect. Your Appearance ‘*The Battle of the
) Century”’

“Take My Advice”

Get into the latest style
TUXEDO
“THE NONCHALANT"”
ALL SILK LINED

$24.50
Robinson’s Clothes Ltd.

444 Barrington St.
Opp. Roy Building
“Walk Up Stairs and Save Ten”

Charlie Murray George Sidney

“FLYING ROMEOS”

Last Chapter
**Trail of the Tiger’’

 

FIRST THREE DAYS
NEXT WEEK

John Gilbert with Jeanne Eagels
N

I
‘““WOMAN and SIN”’

ORPHEUS |

4 Days Only
March 19-20-21 :22

Don’t Miss It!
Mary Pickford

in
‘“‘My Best Girl’’
also
Adventures of Mazie

 

     
       
   
   
       
  

 

 

All DalhousieStudents

especially the Book Lovers
are cordially invited to make

THE BOOK ROOM

114 Granville Street
their Headquarters

FOX NEWS—PATHE REVUE

COMING! Charliel Chaplin in ‘*THE
CIRCUS”

Come in and browse and

make yourself at home.

E. VICKERY, Manager.

Halifax Chronicle

AND

The
Halifax Daily Star
The

 

Globe Laundry Ltd

50 Buckingham Street |

G.W.SPRAGUE,  Vice-Pres. |
C. W. SFRAGUE, Pres. :
fastest growing
The College Students’
Laundry

Telephone Sac. 714

|

newspapers in
| Nova Scotia
|
|

 

 

COLWELL BROTHERS

Limited
453-457 Barrington Street

MEN’S HATS, CLOTHING, FURNISHINGS
AND LUGGAGE

HIGH CLASS GOODS AT MODERATE PRICES

tia Technical College
Offers
ENGINEERING COURSES
in
CIVIL, ELECTRICAL, MECHANICAL AND MINING
To Dalhousie Students with Engineering Diploma

MODERN EQUIPMENT

Instructing Staff with Industrial Experience
Tuition Fee $75.00 per year. Twenty-five scholarships of $75.00 each

Write or call for Calendar or advice.

F. H. SEXTON, Pres.

 

    

    

      

 

SCO

    

 

 

 

  
   
   
  
  
 

ar
COLLEGE STUDENTS WANT

The latest world news
The most college news.
The best Sport write-ups.
The finest features.

They will buy daily
THE HALIFAX HERALD
AND

THE EVENING MAIL

  

   
 

     
