   
   
        

      
    

) DEBATE

oY
me te) ¢
ve F .
~ ON MARRIAGE
Be, . a=

~

aah bject Wednesday

ed Is Mart
_ This is the
_ MacKenzie, Ann Clark, Roy Laurence
and Jack Atwood will attempt to settle
once and for all on Wednesday evening
o's “| Nov. 16 in the Munro Room.
_ This proposition involves many other
serious and as yet unsettled problems.
Is marriage necessary at all? What is a
_* +¢areer anyway? What is the ultimate
_ goalin Life? Is it a Career? Is it
__-‘Marriage?—Can love—that great myst_-—s erious force, overcome the burning

, Able eo on Interesting
ere

 
   
 

e a Hindrance to a Career?

 
    
  
  

mil

    
   
 

:
rey.
fi oe i.

2 if y

+ ae desire for a career? Love,....Love...
ne _ ah! don't forget to take love into consideration. ;
ss Of course George Bernard Shaw and
| charles “L....?’’ Bennet both believe
that love and love making are the bunk.

_ The other great men like Dr. Wilson and
Prof, Walter Ross have not as yet been

ty! heard to voice an opinion!
‘ The opinions of the four speakers will
5 be awaited with great interest.

Jean MacKenzie, President of Delta
Gamma, and Manager of the Ground
Hockey Team has been active in all
student circles. Her pleasing manner will attract many of the opposite
sex to Sodales.
5 Ann Clark, is well known for a dry
ry wit that goes well in debating circles.
. _ Her scholastic record makes us believe

that she will delve deep into this pro_ found problem.

P a vam - . 7
ti Ws, S lales. ‘First with his views and
___ fearless he will bring many new theories

     
   
   
   

__ and_ startling ones—to light, on next
Wednesday night. He will no doubt
_-——s«-¥@ice ~many opinions rampant in the
Commerce House, his domicile.
vert i ibe _ Jack Atwood, Latin interpreter for
i‘ ‘the Dalhousie Moot Court, possessor of
a Literary D, and incumbent of inn.  umerable offices during his sojourn at

i

 
 

Dalhousie, is without doubt the Senior
Bay. th aac alge college. His views are
__ always apt, in fact striking at times. _

‘With a line-up like this Sodales will
attract a huge audience on next Wed_ mesday. This debate is a serious matter,
involving the entire existing social
structure. Why do not the professors
show up? At the last debate there

   

_. wasn’t one professor present. Of course
their absence can be understood and
_—s @ppreciated for their very livelihood was

being threatened. It should have been
a announced that Sodales offers protection
to all professors. )

The opinions of such eminent men as
> the Logician Dr. Herbert L. Stewart;
aa the Psychologist Prof. Symons and the
_ Sociologist Dr. Prince will be very

essential in the final settlement of this
problem of ‘‘the Life-Force versus A
- Career.”

ep

Last Year’s Gradtates In Southern
ie States

W. Sydney Gilchrist, Edwin Cameron,
 E. L. “Quack” McQuade and Brvan
Archibald, members of last year's
x graduating class in Medicine, after
taking post graduate work in epidem
+

ab ¢

ita! iology and tropical diseases are located
<ony on the Mississippi valley doing public
ny health work under the direction of the
___. Rockerfeller Institute.

GLEE CLUB
aes CONTEST

 

“at _ Original Skits Are Asked For
Agee, by Popular Society
‘ “ab To encourage originality and local

fi

__.__ writers for the Glee Club, we are offering
» Ses pee for the best plays or skits written
-) any member of the student body.
_ Skits written by students have been
__ played here before and have met with
~ ‘favor, e. g., ‘Registration Day’ by
 - Ronald apo and Kelly Morton. We
are sure that more of this would be
__ popular, so let’s have your contributions.
_ , The rules for this contest are very
«Simple.
You may use any subject, period, or
; setting you like.
You may write on both sides of the
paper or diagonally, for all we care.
_. Your play or skit must not take longer
in presentation than twenty-five minutes, but will have just as much chance
_ of winning if it only takes five minutes,
_ provided that the idea is good.
_. All contributions must be in by the
end of November.
yr list of rules.

a 3.4
o .
ea 1

a tw: }

4
.
Li
"

at is the

  

| as her p

difficult. problem that Jean |

__ Roy Laurence, is no new-comer to|

Allen and the 1927-1928 officers.

where he could not forsee.

As a first attempt for the current year

 

owas Klesh.

 

Cameron, of athletic and poetic fame,

| The slee
probably take place Monday Nov. 21st.

  

ae
Pet
eee
=, ‘
eat

 

>

 

 

New Contributor — |

 

2
James Nelson Gowanloch,; popular professor, who lakes a keen interest wm
student activities and who has very
kindly contributed an article to
this week's Gazette.

GLEE CLUB HOLDS
FIRST SHOW

‘A Night At An Inn’— Best
Number On Short Program.

A record crowd turned out last
Thursday night to witness the first
showing of the Glee Club under ee
e
main event of the evening was the
One Act Play entitled ‘‘A Night at an
Inn” by Lord Dunsany. As Toffy,
Forrest Musgrave gave an intensified
interpretation of the crook, who ‘‘could
forsee everything” caught in a situation
The result
—death in a manner, which judging by
the groans Teffy and his confederates
gave vent to on confronting the unknown, must have been  soul-rending
to the witnesses such as they were.

 

the show was fair, the play was short,
different from the usual Glee Club
variety, and put over very well by
those who took part in it. The whole
show did not take up an hour and
the dancing which followed was
one of the most successful features of the
evening’s program.

Eddie Murray opened the show with a

variety of ‘‘announcements’’ which,
were extremely funny; in most cases
however the point of the jokes were
points only to a few and the general
audience laughed to keep them company. We wonder how many of those
present, outside of those students who
are still taking Maths., saw anything
funny in the ‘‘writing on the wall’
“announcement’’? Honest it was really
funny but Eddie didn’t take into consideration the cosmopolitan character
of his audience and as a result many of
his brilliant witticisms were wasted
“on the desert air’’.
_ After Eddie came the play, and judging by the silence that prevailed during
the more exciting moments of the play,
a goodly portion of the audience allowed
the identity of the “‘unforseen’’ to get
under their skin. At any rate the
heart rending groans which, we are to
presume, emitted from the respective
throats of Kelly Morton, George Laurence, Charlie Allen. and Forrest Musgrave, threw a blanket of dread silence
over the assemblage, and even the
sharp ejaculation of a freshette who
exclaimed: “ISN’T HE TAL-L-L, as
“Toffy”’ arose to meet his fate, went
unnoticed by the gaping crowd.

Associated with ‘“Totfy’”’ in his crime
and unhappy end, were ‘‘Sniggers”,
Kelly Morton, ‘Bill’, Charles Allen;
and “‘Albert’’, Roy Laurence; the three
bronze exhibits of lusty manhood, whose
stealth, rippling muscles, and_ strict
conformity to the 1990 style edict,
nearly bowled over the co-eds, were
Rand Mattheson, Ken Mattheson, and
George Mahon. That hideous figure
which snooped its eye under the very
nose of ‘‘Toffy’’, and, we are lead to
suspect, had something to do with the

light of the dilapidated gentlemen and
ns friends after they had made their
dramatic exit, was none other than
Fat'’ McKenzie, his title for the evening

Following the play John Brookfield
sang his way into the hearts of his
audience with a vigour which was
surprising. to say the least. John has
a pleasing voice and his selections were
weil received.

The last stage event was an interretation of the Tango by Miss Eileen

and Miss Electa MacLennan, who acted

ner.

Following which those who cared to,

joyed an hour of informal dancing.
t Glee Club performance will

  
 
  
     
    
 

 

See er anit atiiliiosnnnt Aaah i TRE ee oe i Eel aeenaee ieemeatlle
7 ee ee

~~

ee a ey nl re
4y ' a mr, er 4s
ys vel i> '
F _ >. 4 ie "
a a ’ + 4 .

ee ee

—Official Student Publication at Dalhousie University—

hu

Dftee..
D
Mes,

|

’
an

Ms

HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA, NOVEMBER iltth, 1927

 

AKE GOOD SHOWI

 

Edgehill Team
Beats — Dal

On a field which was mildly described
as being “‘simply awful’ Dal girls went
down to a 2—0 defeat by Edgehill.
At times there was a considerable
amount of indecision as to whether the
rules governing the games should be
those of ground hockey or water polo.
The play was rather slow as a consequence of the heavy field and for the
first part of the game the work was
almost entirely confined to the forward
line. Dal forwards showed considerable improvement in form over that
displaved in their game over H. 5. C.
and they were able to hold their opponents scoreless for the first half. The
opening of the second, repeating same
kind of play as the first, led the spectators to expect a drawn game. Isobel
Wood did some good work which looked
like a score for Dal but the Edgehill
defence were too strong and the puck
went back to the centre field. The
play opened up and both goals were
alternately in danger but Edgehill
finally was able to score two points In
fairly quick succession and though Dal
tried to even the score they were still
at the wrong end when the final whistle
blew. Miss Mackean refereed.

After the game afternoon tea was
served to the teams by Edgehill, to
whom the team express their thanks for

~ CONTINUED ON PAGE 2.

Life In

Vast and changeful, the sea has
brought to man an age-long procession
of gifts, Dr. Archibald MacMechan’s
fine ‘‘Sagas of the Sea’’, Joseph Conrad's
exquisitely evocative tales of eastern
islands, well-broiled haddock, oysters
on the half shell, and to show that the
two last are by no means the two least

infinitive. Some of our Dalhousie men
now here in our classrooms have fished
on the Labrador coasts. They know
all those sharp emotions that come to
men out on hroad waters, the press of
blind fog, the shrill cry of wind, the
comfortable sound of slatting halyards
heard below on a starry night. No
one, however, I do believe, except those
who have studied marine biology itself,
can understand even dimly how marvellous is the life of the sea.

If we turn, for example, to life on
land we see that of creatures apparent
to our eyes there are goodly numbers,
porcupines, Cape Bretoners, earthworms, zoologists, mice and cockroaches
—all these we see and many more,
walking, creeping or crawling upon the
earth as God makes them to walk or
creep or crawl. The atmosphere is
relatively barren of life—birds, insects,
aviators become swiftly scarcer as we
rise above the ground into that ocean of
chartless currents, the air, and for part
at least of their lives all such aerial
animals must descend to earth to secure
food or to reproduce their kind.

But the sea, immense, deep, swift to
destroy man and the works of man, is
home, forrest and meadow for lives,
plant and animal, that are born, mature,
reproduce and die in these untilled
wildernesses of restless water. We at
the University, accustomed as we are
to plucked beaver coats, Lord Nelson
hotels and Rolls-Royce limousines, can
comprehend but badly the utter shelterlessness of these creatures of the sea.
When I fall into the North West Arm
in November as long as I[ float (which I
shouldn't) or swim (which I can’t)
the temperature of my body would
remain roughly the same for although
I should feel cdld, nevertheless, by
burning up more porridge, mince pie
and mashed potatoes with pan gravy,
I could maintain, as long as | survived,
by an apparatus singularly delicate and
complex, my roughly level temperature.
Not so these sea-dwellers. They have
no “‘heat-regulating apparatus’ such
as we possess. Apart from seals, walruses, whales and porpoises, all sea
animals are ‘‘cold-blooded,”’ which,
being interpreted, means merely that
they attain in their bodies the temperature of their surroundings. Freeze
some of them and they are in a block
of ice. Thaw them out, they become
again evidently animate and resume
their normal activities and philosophies.
They have their limits, of course. Those
accustomed to northern icy waters
promptly die if transported to the
Bahamas. It, in a way, is like suddenly

asking a_ well-catechized continuing
Presbyterian to worship in a Mah
ammedan mosque. There are limits
to protoplasmic endurance. But apart

from these extremes, sea animals do

live and prosper and perish in their
precarious world whose rush of tidal
currents and seasonal sweep of heat and
cold bring ever the imminent presence
of that ‘‘fell sergeant, death” oe waits
at every hand for every citizen of land
and sea alike.

Insurance underwriters would be
appalled at ‘‘the chances of death”

By PROFESSOR JAMES
Head of the Department of Zoology

let us proceed to immediately split an.

 

SOCIOLOGY CLUB DEFEAT CA

HEARS FALK

At the last meeting of the Sociology
Club on Nov. 8th, an address was given
by Prof. Howard F. Falk. The meeting was a large and enthusiastic one as
the members have been looking forward to Dr. Falk's address. He spoke
on Sociology as a profession and of the
challenge of social work to university
students. It is, Dr. Falk asserted, one
of the most difficult and yet one of the
most satisfactory problems a student
can attack. University graduates are
needed in social work and at present
there are not enough taking an active interest in this work to fill the need.
Because of the interesting and. definite
manner in which Dr. Falk explained
the relation of the college student to
sociology greater enthusiasm than ever
is being shown in the Sociology Club.
A vote of thanks was moved by Mr.
7ive and seconded by Miss Messenger.
The officers of the Sociology Club are
pleased with the interest shown by the
student and are looking forward
the most successful vear in the historv
oi the Society.

 

to

It is to be hoped that the interest
in the society will continue as the work
done is of vital importance and _ its
value in student education cannot be
overestimated.

the Sea

NELSON GOWANLOCH

   

of a herring, an oyster or a cod. Every
year a pair of herring produce two
million young, yet, on the average, of
their simple family, 1,999,998 die before
they come of age; die and are given
burial in the stomachs of their sisters
or brothers or alien, interested neighbors. The entire and substantial structure of insurance would crumble in the
face of such facts.

Time, that fourth dimension of our
physical world, is another of the hazards in the game they play. Consider
the oyster in his youth—blind, helpless,
thoughtless waif, his decisions all made
for him by the Fates (and Atropos too
often with instant shears). Two weeks
old our oyster is when he must make a
choice more fatal than that hetween
History One and Physics Twenty,
between Law and Medicine or even
than that of matrimony itself. He
must choose his earthly home. Witkin
one hour this drifting bit of life (seventyfive of him end to end would make an
inch) must sink to the sea-botton and
thereafter dwell precisely’at that spot.

Is there famine? He starves. Are
there enemies? He is devoured. It
was not his own doing that he got there.
Do not exhort the oyster. Pity him.
Remember Sancho Panza’s_ wisdom,
‘We are all as God made us and some
even worse’.

There is a beginning and an end and
they are the same. Minute plants,

diatoms, glass-encased, jewel-like, float}

and multiply near the surface of the
sea. From water, salts, simple gases
and sunlight they build up food within
themselves, starches, fats and proteins.
Two thousand five hundred diatoms
make one meal for a copepod. _Copepods, ornate, feathery, shrimp-like animals swarm in the sea and are eaten
by herring, sixty thousand copepods
making one meal for one herring. Thus
by simple mathematics one herring’s
single meal is ultimately made up of one
hundred and fifty million diatomsThe herring is caught and eaten by
man, herring a la Meniere. From the
energy thus secured, man creates a
dull university lecture, a _ violincello
sonata or a vers libre masterpiece on the
decadence of the age. Thus in a measure these one hundred and fifty million
diatoms live on as a university lecture
(very briefly), a music or a poem. Comes
again a pause. Man dies—his altered
mass of molecules is carried by brook
and lake and river to the sea again.
The diatom out of these molecules
again creates its structures, delicate and
transitory. The circle is complete.
The alchemist, bending over his retorts
and magic circles could dream no stranger dream than this truth.

Vast and changeful, the sea conceals
from all, save those who earnestly
seek, this intricate pattern of life,
strange in form and meaning and destiny. The drift of currents, the set of
winds, the shining of the sun or the
blanketing of fog—these are the Fates
of the lives of sea-dwellers and for the
inhabitants of that world there is no
divine tripod and no revealing oracle—
no pitying gods on some Olympus of
the oceanic abyss. They live, grow,
die, brief part of the constant stream of
life, brief moment in immeasurable
time.

(ED. NOTE—This article was wriiten
by Prof. Gowanloch at the earnest
request oy the Gazette staff who wish
to thank him for his great wlerest in

the paper.)

   

  

1 Mama’

  

4 iaaeteT
Ne me a et

ee see ee

LARGEST
CIRCULATION
OF ANY COLLEGE

PAPER IN THE
MARITIMES

 

 

NO. 6

ING ON CAPE BRETON TRIP

LEDONIA 3-0

 

TIE ST. FRANCIS XAVIER

Held up by the floods that ravaged the country-side in Eastern
Nova Scotia, the Dalhousie Rugby players faced the strong Caledonia fifteen on Tuesday instead of Monday as was originally scheduled. After their rather disappointing showing against the Xaverians the Dal team regained enough of their top form to shut out the
Cape Bretoners 3—0 in a great game which was watched by a large

crowd of spectators.

 

| Captain |

 

 

Aubrey Tupper, well known athlete, who,
as Captain of the foothail jeam 1s
leading the Tigers to victory
this jail.

S.C. A. ROYALLY

ENTERTAINED

'Were Guests of Mr. and Mrs.

Ww. M. P. Webster last

Wednesday

Truly the woods resounded with
laughter on the evening of Wednesday
Nov. 2., when the members of the
S. C. A. flocked to the lovely residence
of Mr. and Mrs. W. M. P. Webster at
the North West Arm. And the woods
continued to do so until the party broke
up shortly after the witching hour of
midnight.

During the intervening space of time
a variety of recreations were enjoyed
from the ancient and honourable pastime of treasure-hunting to the equally
ancient and hardly less commendable
diversion known as dancing. ‘Black
Magic,’ ‘Hindu Magic’ and ‘Red Hot
kept both participators and
spectators highly entertained, and many
a novice was initiated into the intric
acies of the Bright Idea.

There were eighty-nine ‘S. C.. Aers’
at the party and every one appeared to
to be having the time of his or her life.
After the dancing and games had gone
on for some time, particularly delicious
refreshments. were served and the
party broke up with Dalhousie songs and
three hearty cheers for our very hospitable host and hostess.

———— >

The last session of the Moot Court
will take place on next Tuesday. The
Moot Court this year can boast of record
attendance ‘at \every session. I[t Is
anticipated thaf\ many students will
take advantage of the fact that the last
session will be opert, to the entire student
body.

 

MORRISON’S SENSATIONAL HOP
FAILS 14 MILES FROM GOAL

 

On the morning of Noy. Sth at 11.21,
all Halifax witnessed the start of Tom
Morrison's long hop from Halifax to
Point Tupper. :

Dressed in a black slicker with goggles
and gauntlets to naatch and with his

Lessel straight six in perfect ruaning

order, Morrison tdok to the soad in
front of the Chronicle Buildimg. At
Waverly, 11.2 mikes from Haltfax the
Lessel developed engine and tire trouble
and repairs had to be made. At 1.15
he again took off. At 2.30 he passed
through Truro, hitting only the high
spots and things looked bright fer a
record trip. Unfortunately trouble
again developed, with the result that

he was delayed one and three quarter
lett the
outskirts of Truro and threwgh rain and
fog made New Glasgow in one hour and
From here 1 he travelling
was dangerous but with de gged _ perseverance Morrison continued through
and mire as far as Antigonish.
Only forty miles of the trij> remained.

hours. At 3.45 the Lessel

      

   

five minutes.

muck

* Although

the Caledonia men
were at a disadvantage, being lighter,
they presented a stiff opposition and the
touring collegians were unable.to score
until the last ten minutes of play. The
Dal scrum showed a decided improvement over recent games and had a big
edge on their opponents in this phase
of the game. George McLeod made a
hit with the crowd with his work at full
back and in as much as George hails
from the Island it is not surprising that
the Tiger’s star received a glad hand
from the crowd and the press or his
playing.

When the team took the field, it was
seen that the college team were much
the heavier men, and the game was not
long in progress before it was apparent
that the light Caledonia forwards were
no match for the heavy Dalhousie scrim
as no sooner was the ball put into
the scrim, than the Dalhousians surged
the Caledonia scrim back and out of the
48 scrims that took place during the
game the Caledonians only got the ball
out fourteen times, thus the crack backfield of the Cape Breton champions did
not have nearly as many chances as their
opponents, who were fed the ball well
from the scrim. Light as the Caledonia
forwards were, they outshone the college
men in speed, tackling and dribbling,
and as far as territory went the home
team had the most of it.

McLEOD THE STAR

The work of McLeod the Dalhousie
fullback was the outstanding feature
of the game, as he on many occasions
saved his team. He handled the ball
beautifully and punted exceptionally
well. The Boutilier brothers starred
for Caledonia,

Mayor Morrison kicked off. There
was no score in the first half and Dalhousie had to touch for safety three
times to the once of Caledonia. During
half time, Mayor Morrison presented the
McAulay Bros., trophy to the Caledonia

team, winners of the Cape Breton
League.
Shortly after the second half got

under way, McNeil was hurt and the
game held up for a time. On the resumption of play Jones and Wickwire
exchanged positions, and a little later
the game was again held wp when
Stanley Scott was knocked out. With
the excepvion of the start of the second
half and the last few minutes of the
half, the Caledonians had the best of the
play and they were frequently on the
Dal. five yard line. Near the end of
the half Dal players worked the ball
down and forced Caledonia to touch for
safety. Following this there were several scrimmages near the Caledonia
line and finally Wickwire got the ball
out of the scrimmage and was over tor
the only score of the game.

MAKE GALLANT EFFORT
The Caledonians made a _ gallant
effort to even the score and were

playing the Dalhousians off their feet
in the dying moments of the game.

Bernie Curry handled the game
splendidly.

The teams lined up as follows:

Caledonia.—F ullback, Leslie; Quarters, Driscoll, C. McLean, MeMullin,
Sheppard; Halves, Scott, |. W Boutilier,
G. McLean; Forwards, D. McLean, D.
Boutilier, D. Nicholson, N. Nicholson,
Daye, McNeil and Wadman.

CONTINUED ON PAGE 4

 

 

Disregarding the advice that he
remain in Antigonish, Morrison set
out at 7.45 on the last lap. Twentytwo miles outside of Antigonish he had
to make a detour of twenty five miles
due to several wash-outs along the road.
With the true Lindburgh pluck he kept
on, passing many of the would-be
record breakers along the road. Within
a mile of the main highway and fourteen
miles. from his destination, the trip
ended suddenly. Morrison made his
first and last mistake of the trip by
taking for solid ground that which was
water, and the machine landed into the
ditch and crashed into a car ahead.
Morrison escaped unhurt by leaping
from his machine. The next morning
after a great deal of effort the machine
was extricated from its position and
towed to a garage where it was put In
running order.. Morrison returned to
Halifax at 5.30, Tuesday morning. Undaunted by his terrible experience he
contemplates trying the same course
tomorrow,

   

         
    

 

Associate

Circulation

RALPH S.
52 Quin
Phone

BEN G
W. GORDON
MARGARET

 

i; - ‘
The Dalhousie Gasette
anit wae Lib yes F (Founded 1869)
FRED C. JENNINGS
Sports Editor
J. W. WHALEN

Exchange Editor.
KATHERINE HANIFEN

Editors.

USS
DUSTAN
ELLS

Manager

S. W. ARCHIBALD
Business Manager.

MORTON
1 Rd.
ac. 304

Subscription Rate : $1.00 per year

 

   

opposed to each other.

who gave their all for humanity i

their sacrifice.

“Lest We Forget”

| Today we observe the ninth anniversary of the cessation of

hostilities between two of the greatest hosts of war that were ever
At eleven o'clock today in many regions
ee 5 #, of. the world the people cease their business and toils and a silence
ae ti reigns for a period of two minutes.

This silence is a tribute to those
n the great conflict and expresses

well our inability to put into acticulate speech our appreciation of
The greatest orators, the most illustrious poets,
the most gifted of writers could not express adequate tribute to the

| ~@©~—_._ deeds of the heroes, hence this silence, more potent than words,

bey has been substituted.

It is a small insignificant thing, this two minute silence, but it
is a mark of deep and poignant respect.
who gave their lives in the cause of
mc who have suffered the living death of permanent disability.
‘ honors the mothers who gave their sons to the cause of right.
hye We should on this day try to realize the magnitude of our
Pe indebtedness; we should try to understand the greatness of their
a sacrifice, and revivify the memory of the gallant ones who fought

It pays tribute to those
humanity. It honors the heroes
It

7 in our behalf. Stately monuments and memorials have been
raised in their memory. Flags have waved in the breeze as a tribute
tothem. Everyone cannot participate in these functions but every
living to the dead.

different encounters with other

 

one can observe the two- minute silence which is a true tribute of the

To besnenever

j The football season is fast passing. The days are shortening
and gridirons are developing their usual late fall coat of mud.
the ordinary course of events the members of the Dalhousie squad
would soon be considering the advisability of hanging up their
uniforms; but this year is different from those that have gone before.
_ The much planned and mooted trip to British Columbia is within
7 the. reach of reason now and the squad is looking forward with
anticipation: and pleasure to the journey.
So far this season the Dal team has acquitted itself obly i in the

In

teams. True there have been

many faults found with the team and its exhibitions but we can
truly say that it is a good representative of the football department
of the university and as such will bring honors to Dalhousie when

it meets the universities of Western Canada.
| 3 The benefit of such a trip as the football team will take during
q the Christmas vacation is not restricted to the personnel of the squad.
me, Rather will it be reflected back to the university and consequently

to each student in attendance.

The advertising advantage, if we

ri may call it such, cannot be exaggerated. Some may say that a
be. debating team, if it were to tour the Canadian province would be a
tz more fitting representative of a university. There is no doubt

z i obtained would be much less.

that a tour by such a team would bring effects of benefit to Dalhousie but, strange as it may seem, the publicity that would be

Some may say that the heavy expenses incurred during the
trip are not warranted in the case of such a frivilous expedition—

a case in which sport, a mere pastime is the main feature.

How
ever, if one considers the trip in all its aspects it will appear neither

A frivolous nor unjustly costly.

| When Dalhousie sends to British Columbia the pick of her
football squad, she will be exhibiting to the people of the western
coast worthy specimens of her student body. She is not sending
the brawn of the institution to do battle with squads from other

ye tour will not be taken up wholly

colleges but rather she is sending specimens of her manhood. The

with football—that, of course, is

the spectacular, the evident phase of the undertaking— but there

are many subsidiary phases.
team will play three games.

football fans an idea of the type
east. They will give the people

Ps verdict will be favorable to us.

 

During their stay of two weeks the
These encounters will give the western

of football that is played in the
of British Columbia an oppor
tunity to judge of the sportsmanship of those from .the Atlantic
seaboard and we feel sure that whether our téam wins or loses the

re Off the field the Dalhousians will make many acquaintances
b: and their conduct will be used as a basis upon which will be judged

the make up of our university. Without a doubt college life as
it is in the east and in the west will be one of the main topics.
different aspects of college will be discussed at length and ideas
will be exchanged which will, no doubt, benefit both east and west.

The

I ta Dalhousie will be discussed’ not only from the standpoint of sport

 
  
   
    

in contact with other universities

 

Friends of College Also Subscribe
to the Gazette

      
     
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
   
 
   
   

_ but also from the standpoint of its other activities.
Le Pp tors attainments will receive consideration.
ersity will be brought before the eyes of a people relatively far away.

Consequently, considering the trip in all its phases, we can
only see benefit coming to the college.

aeawitg acknowledgements of
‘| Marion Wood, Newfoun

B ICcK

Ab. Smith
York, A
Elinor

Its scholastic
In other words the univ
Dalhousie shall be brought
at a distance and from this con
tact should develop many salutary results. |
Graduates Send In Subscription Money

money. In sending in your money
dly mention your present address
so that we can get our mailing list in
better shape.
The Business Manager makes the

id up
subscriptions: George Nichols, McGill
Hayes, Liv En oe
d, oBud™
Smith St. John, Charles Roper, K,
Vickery, Alice Sproull, Col. Prideaux,
Warten Publicover, New
A, Blenus Morton, Galt, Ontario,
Barnstead, Ronald Fieldin

g and
Muaro. ,

The Utilitarians who have spent the
past few years gleefully crowing over the
absolute impracticality and _ conservatism of the university are beginning
to look less gleeful. Their arguments
seemed hole-proof. Didn't everybody
know that college students had to take
useless subjects to get a degree—witness
compulsory Latin or Greek? ‘‘Compulsory Latin or Greek’’! seemed to be
their war cry which they hurled at both
general public and students, until the
students never very kindly disposed
towards such subjects became more
and more resentful and felt more and
more inclined to hurl their books—but
now at something besides the classics.
So these utilitarians must have received a rather rude shock when they
discovered that at least some of the
universities are keeping pace with
civilization. Perhaps they consider it
the due reward of their labors and that
is but the inevitable which is happening.
How it came to pass is doubtful but the
New Student Service announces that
the University of Southern California
has introduced a four year course of
training for the motion picture industry.
The subjects include architecture, and
fine arts, technique of cinematography
and composition, literature and criticism. As outlined the study will
deal with the technical phases of the
motion picture industry. The Tower
contains an extract from a proposed
curriculum submitted by the New
York World which is a proof of the
interest of this New York publication
in Southern California’s venture. It Is;

“Cinema 3a. Understudying. How
to substitute for Rin Tin Tin without
running foul of the dog catcher. One
hour a week. Prof. Lon Chaney.

Cinema 2b. Osculation. While some
instruction is given in theory this is
primarily a laboratory course. During
the first semester the student will work
under the direction of the instructor,
during the second, he will be required to
perform one original experiment, to be
not less than 100 film feet in length,

Clocks

The Arts Class 0 of 192 1922 is deserving of
the whole hearted gratitude of the
present student body for the magnificant clock which they have caused
to be placed in the library. It is an
electric clock and no doubt, a highly
expensive one. The design is well in
keeping with the room and greatly adds
to its furnishings, yet it has, to the
present writer’s mind, a serious fault*
it is such a silent thing— the minutes
pass away and no tick marks their
demise; no chimes ring out the passing
of the hours. Were it not for the
noisy clang of the college bells, the
student would often find himself musing
away long after the appointed hour of
class, for the electric clock works so
silently that its presence is too often
forgotten or disregarded.

The absolute silence of the clock
stands out at times in marked contrast
to its surroundings. Well may the
students and more particularly the
professor, benefit by its history. Quietly
and without ostentation, it does its
work well—it has never been known
to be in error—keeping absolute pace
with old friend Sol.

Such a clock might well have appealed
to Charles V., whose hobby it was to
have as many clocks as_ possible, all
of which must keep perfect time. A
strange hobby indeed.

As the clock in the Library has*made
the class of 1922 famous so has a clock
made Strassbourg famous. This clock,
probably the most wonderful in the
world, is worthy of description. The
Strassbourg Clock is in a corner of the
South transept of the Cathedral. There
is a picture of it in the Public School
Geography. It is a big affair which
records not only the legal time, but also
the hour all over the earth, the phases
of the moon, star time and the various
letters of the ecclesiastical year. On
one part of it is a kind of small roadway,
across which figures in chariots move.
For example, exactly at midnight on
Monday Mars appears and all day
drivesslowly acrossthe face of the
clock. At midnight on Tuesday he has
passed out of sight. A little higher up
an angel strikes a bell for the hours and
besides him another takes over the
hour glass at the end of the hour. Up
still higher stands Death. Before him
pass four figures, a child, a youth, a
man and an old dotard. The first
strikes the bell for the quarter hour,
the next for the half and so on. As
they do so, they pass before Death and
enter the other side of the clock. There
are thus always two bells rung each
quarter—one by the angel and one by
these creatures. For the count of the
hour, Death himself strikes a bell with
a bone. At midday the twelve apostles
file before Our Lord, who stands in a
gailery high up. He blesses each one,
as they bow before Him and then He
blesses the world. Three times during
this ceremony, a rooster, on another
part of the affair, flaps his wings.

This clock is only about a hundred
years old. It is said that the maker
of the second one—this is the third of a
series—was blinded in order that he
might make another and that he removed some part of the clock so that
it never worked, However this is
thought to be ‘only a yarn’ and not an
historical fact.

GROUND HOCKEY
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1
the way in which they were received.
The manager also wishes to thank Miss
Lillian Barnstead, Miss Frances Hayes,
Dr. Sexton and Mr. Ralph Morton for

the use of their cars!

Dal team lined up: Forwards: Annie
Milne, Isobel Wood, Lillian Barnstead,
Jean MacKenzie, ‘Jackie Dumaresq;
Halves: Mary Chirguin, Helen Robert
son, E. Cavicchi; Fullbacks: Allene
MacCurdy, Helen’ a {Goa K.
Winfieiu Sub. Effie Sha

 

8 hours a week to count as 4. Prof.
Richard Barthelmess.”

Other colleges, while they have not
introduced a technical training course,
are now using motion picture films as

of college equipment. This year
ne medical Tecate of McGill has procured the use of a series of films produced under the direction and approved
by some of the most eminent American
surgeons. These were made especially
for the use of hospitals and medical
schools.

But perhaps the most interesting
experiment was that which took place
last year, at the Harvard School of
Business Administration. Under the
direction of Joseph P. Kennedy, Harvard '12, president of Film Booking
Offices . of America, a2 course in the
history of motion pictures and motion
icture problems was opened. The
foc tures dealt with pictures from financial and artistic viewpoints. As a
result a film library was established by
the decision of the Department of Fine
Arts in association with the Fogg Art
Museum and Widener Library. Great
enthusiasm was shown not only by
Harvard seniors but also by the business
leaders of the film world, who hoped to
be able to attract college graduates to
their ranks. Because of the success
at Harvard a similar course was opened
at Columbia where it also attracted
great attention.

Who knows but that next these
universities will be giving a course in
movie acting as subject for some degree
or other and then we will see Rhodes
Scholars, with Greek profiles, flitting
across the silver sheet. But joking
aside it seems that though the universities do not go to Hollywood, the
magnates of film business do come to
the universities which goes to prove
that what Neal O'Hara said isn’t so
far wrong after all, “We may laugh at
Hollywood but we can’t laugh it off.”
Which also goes to prove that though
utilitarians are mostly right they can
n_100 film feet in length,!'err slightly.

Contributions In Odd
Verse Competition

Stanley Walker

 

Stanley Walker
Was a ripping good talker:
Yet on a popularity basis
One of many sad cases.

Herbert L. Stewart

Herbert L. Stewart

Has taught us a new art:

He delights in telling Scotch Jokes
To the philosophy blokes.

Dr. Archibald MacK MacMechan

Archibald MacKellar MacMechan:
Do students love their neckin’?

Pray do spread this knowledge—
Insure the LIFE of a Little College.

Dr. Howard Murray

Howard Murray—

The students greyed with worry—
Thou art fastidious to the dot—
And students stand a lot.

Murray Macneill

Murray Macneill

Knows a good deal—

The calendar’s the book he wrote—
And say—It gets your goat!

Rene Gautheron

Rene Gautheron

De vous fe parle donc
French, I, II, V and IV
Who can do more?

Charles L. Bennet
Charles L. Bennet
Did he pass by the Senate?
He looks as if he’s seen better days
After he dabbles in plays.

Professor Robaire
Professor Robaire
Built several castles in air;
When they came down in rain
He rebuilt in Spain.

Alfred the Great
Alfred the Great
Was prone to meditate.
His translation of Boltinus
Came from obsequiosu.

EE —————

Can You Beat It

(A dream)

There was a red hot argument going
on. Prof. Bennet stated, maintained
and argued that ‘‘Art”’ counted most in
life. Prof. Gowanloch with equal overpowering force argued that ‘‘Sctence’’
counted most in life. Each of the men
was surrounded by huge volumes of
books—fountains of knowledge from
which they drew their streams of
information.

Subtle sarcasms were hurled back
and forth. Dr. MacMechan was attracted to the side of Gowanloch. H. L.
Stewart heaved forth logic (strange as
it may seem) to support Bennet. By
this time all the professors came forth
from their lairs and were taking sides.

The noise was absolutely unbearable.
So was the language. All the elements
were invoked, but to no avail. Wha
counts most in life....This counts.
That counts....Counts in life—That's
ail that counts in life—

You could hear nothing else. There
was a babel, a chaos, confusion worse
confounded. Finally Mr. Harper our
eminent business manager came forth
with these words of wisdom. ‘My
dear sirs, what counts most in ees
An adding machine.” And then I
woke up.

 

  

re Tcoeisitide”

 

He was neither tall nor dark nor
handsome; he was neither short, blonde,
nor ugly; but to himself he was a plain
blunt boy, who went about for the most
part unconsciously, in a world of his
own; smiling now to this one; waving
now to that one. Questioning now a
Chinese laundryman; now a doctor or
a laborer. He was often seen climbing
hills; he was sometimes met roaming
on seashores; he was often found
dreaming under trees. He always had
a far-away look. Always dreaming.

He could never explain to himself
why he did, what he did. he did things
by urges, by inspiration; he acted on
impulse; he was moved to do things,
only by over-powering desire. Thus,
though born a Westerner, he was by
nature Oriental,and unlikethe westerner,
who is shackled by cramping conventions, seeking psychological sanctions for all his actions.

Though only young he was a deep
thinker, perhaps not an original thinker
but a deep thinker. To him life
presented a mystery. And he felt that
although his mind could not solve it,
he could ease that mind by constant
communion with nature. He had read
bits of philosophy from the Chinese,
the Mohammedan, the Christian and the
Hebrew. He was fond of music, of
poetry. He was interested profoundly
in the fine things in life. He spoke of
the higher aims of humanity.

If asked. ‘‘Are you interested in this?”
“In that?”

He would say ‘‘Yes.”

He would answer ‘Yes."" Although
“this” and ‘‘that’’ may have been of
extremely divergent natures. His true

nature was therefore hard to discern.
He was accused of being very lightminded; in realty he was open-minded,
He thought about everything and
thought deeply, but he never came to
conclusions. He was accused of having
no principles; in truth, to him nothing
appeared absolute or permanent. He
saw things in an ever changing relation.
He came to be called a jellyfish, because
he reacted to the least wind that blew.

But he had a smile—a smile. And
some people having read Shakespeare
without much thought, laboured under
the misapprehension that ali who smile
are villains. And so this unconscious
being was suddenly and cruelly made
conscious of himself by being termed an
evil-smiling, shallow, conceited young
fool, with a copious capacity for the
gab and the mind of a_ politician.
Ignorence is bliss and so now having
been made conscious of himself, he was
unhappy.

There followed a long period of
introspection, during which he spoke
very littl. He began to be called a
sponge. He seemed to take in everything. If one would have him speak,
one must needs press him continually,
for his confidence in himself had been
shattered. But a sympathetic soul
entered his life. Confidence was restored. The sun began to shine anew.
The disappointing experience had created within him the faculty for discerning
distinct likes and dislikes.

He was no longer jellyfish nor sponge.
He had weathered this transitionary
period. He had developed a critical
sense. He was now introduced as a
young man whose mind could digest
most anything and give to it an individual stamp. Returning confidence
brought back that smile... .that smile

.But even though that smile was
sincere, there were those sour-hearted
pessimistic ones, who could not comprehend a person smiling, nearly always
smiling.

But the peculiar thing was_ this.
The very smile that to some was so
odious, won for him many friends,
true friends. These friends would gather
about him, for to them he was a fountain of knowledge; he loved nature,
spoke in metaphors related by parable.
To boys he was a hero, for he took a
fraternal interest in them. he would
speak to them of loyalty, patriotism,
sacrifice. He could by means of his
imaginative style lift the minds of his
hearers away from the hum-drum routine of daily life.

He was loved or hated. one could
not be indifferent to so distinct a personality....Suddenly he realized that
he was being talked about. He was
again made conscious of himself. People had begun to entertain for him.
He was made the recipient of many gifts.
He had been invited on visits for
several months. These were personal
triumphs. And now he fell. He be
came polluted by mercenary motives.
He realized that he had but to smile,
to tell a beautiful legend, to speak of
nature—and he was a conqueror.

He

November 1ith, 192 7

THE LIFE OF A

LITTLE COLLEGE

 

The many friends of Johnny Thurrott,
Med. ’28, who was operated on for
appendicitis recently, will be glad to
hear that he is wel on the road to re
covery. has

Prof. Bennet ‘to Law Student:

“T hear they teach you Crimes down
here?”’—We wonder whether C. L. was
looking for information. At any rate
it was a clever wise- crack.

Morris hatisites B. A., Bishop's
and First Year Law at Dal., has served
on jury duty. Since then every professor at law has taken pains to inform
the class in general that it wasa breach
of ‘legal etiquette’’ to divulge what
goes on in the jury chamber.

After perusing a notice posted concerning stolen garments it would appear
that two Dalhousians were fighting the
autumn blast on a 50—50 basis. Perhaps Sedgewick owns the spring part

of the coat and , the fall part.

* * *

Ross Byrne, LI. B., '26, is at present
practising law in Liverpool, N.S.

Joseph McManus, EL Bi, "27,, is
following his profession in a local law

office.
ee &

Leo Doyle, who finished his law course
here last year was a recent visitor to the
city.

x *

Harry S. Morton, M. Sc., is
continuing his medical course at ‘the
University of London, England.

27

Ke, ‘3, “Dud” Fhillice, ex Med.
is engaged in pharmacy work in Toke

Prof: You need not take my word for
it. These are not my figures, they are
compiled by a man who knew what he
was talking about. Zh

The first Shirreff Hall Dance was held
on Wednesday. Mary Bell, Molly
Fulton, Helen Williams, Elizabeth
Frame and Jessie Gladwin formed the
committee in charge. Comments on a
Shirreff Hall Dance are unnecessary.

KATTY KAMPUS KRACKS

 

Bulletin posted by the Engineer in
charge of Buildings and Grounds—
who is old enough to know better—

“Lost, a light gray Spring and Fall
overcoat, the property of Mr. H. C.
Bohaker and Mr. T. C. Sedgwick. .
50—50 basis?

K-K-K

After being canvassed by two men
on the way to College, eleven in the
smoking room, three in the library,
six in the Lab., then the Ko-Ed friend
calls up and says: ‘‘Have you bought
your ticket for the Dental Dance yet?”
I am beginning to see some truth in the
statement made by A. M. M. in his
Dathouste of Today, viz: ‘‘Henry Godsoe
is without doubt the greatest nuisance
on the campus.”

was made to realize his power. But
those very ones who had catered to
him were made to suffer. Paradoxical,
but so are many things in life.

He now became the great “I am”’—
selfish, thoughtless for the feelings of
others. The smile that once was
sincere, now became in reality, the
smile of a villain. He could now laugh,
for he had an indefinable power over
those who had learned to love him in
the previous years. Now those who
had hated him were justified in their
previous accusations. He himself did
not deny them. But peculiarly enough
those who had hated him, now became
more friendly. They claimed that he
was no longer a hypocrite; that he had
at last given up acting; that now he
was showing his true face.

He was disgusted with himself. He
was unhappy. He removed to another
town. But it was a mistake to think
that he could escape from himself.
There was a recurrence of the same circumstances. His dazzling personality
and distinctive mind, impressed people
the first few weeks. He was banqueted;
he was fondled. But they told him
he was wonderful. Then like a thunde
cloud he became glowering and cynical.
A complete change came over him.
He wore a sneer on the face that once
had been graced by a ravishing smile. .

..He was unhappy

“*e**eee®

 

 

 

eae,

nm ________

VIOLIN OUTFITS

And Stringed Instruments Of Every Discription

 

Just come in and see what values we have to offer |
.
:

 

 

 
  
    
 
  
  
   
   

 
  
   
    
  
   
  
   
   
  
      
    
 

       
   
   
   

  
  

The lar and qui
i Beauty Parlors east of
treal—and onty then out
in size! All our operators

    
 

      
   

graduates—experts—in |
ery of Beauty Culture- |
and all equipment is modern |
_ to the smallest detail.
q hee

__-Your patronage is solicited,
fj and we warrant complete satff isfaction from a manicure to
ff @ permanent wave.
ey See us before the Dental Dance.
| Sack. 3850 for appointment.

THE WOOD BROS CO.,

ni Limited

   
 
 
     
    
   
   
  

     
  
   
   
   
  

qi
i}
a

   
  

    
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 

|| SAVE MONEY!
_ 1|ON YOUR LOOSELEAF
_|| SUPPLIES—SEE

4 FRANK M. O’NEILL

  
  
 

 
    
  

 
  

  

_ | COLLEGIANS?

We have the clothes that are
smart—the kind that keep their
smartness—and the kind that
smart men wear, because these
men are smart enough to know
they can save $10. on their
clothes bought from

Robinson’s Clothes Ltd,

444 Barrington St.
“Walk Up Stairs and Save Ten”
From the

WINNERS ‘Siar
For 60 years the REACH Trade

7 Mark on Sporting Goods has been
a mark of perfection. No matter
what your favorite sport may be, we
can supply you with equipment that
will help you play the game with
the best that's in you.

 CRAGG BROS. CO. LTD.
, _ _ Hardware and Sporting Goods

= ——.. & 
 
     
         
      

 
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

 

 
  
 
 
 
  

 

|| RENTS MENDED
|| HOLES DARNED

That’s the service you get
free when you send YOUR
Laundry to Ungar’s.

VALETERIA

K A new pressing Service:
me, Your Suit or Overcoat
oy | Steam Cleaned and Pres. sed, for 75c or 4 Tickets
> for $2.00,

Y NECKTIES cleaned 10c.

a UNGAR’S
Halifax, N. S.
Har. 127

DYEING
VALETERIA

‘fi Barrington St.,
‘ae Sack 428

LAUNDERING
CLEANING

 
 

To readers of
The Dalhousie Gazette

     
       
 

we recommend

Kinley's

THE REXALL
DRUG STORE

For everything in

    
      

i =
5

      
   
      

  

     

 |Drug Store Needs |

 
    

| 499 Barrington Street
. Phone Sack. 61

    
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

* | 48

ie Favre

 

CHAPTER 3
Now not far off from the land of Dal

' was the land of Akad, and it was a

place of great sloth in study and pep

} | 1n shouting, yea of great pep and noise

in shouting.

_ 2. For lo, they did spend much time
in crying out and singing the songs of
their country, because they were forbidden to have orgies of dancing and
feasting by the authorities of that
country.

3. And the men of that country
said unto each other, ‘‘Let us go forth
to war, for the time passeth slowly.”

4. And mighty chieftains from Akad
conferred with the leaders of the hosts
of Dal. And there was war.

5. And the army of Dal made a
journey to the land of Akad, in their
chariots, and many chariots bearing
citizens of Dal accompanied them.
And there was a great strife.

7. For lo the army of Dal was a
mighty host, and their leader was Aub.

8 And there was Bun Kur, and
Stroth, and Hewt, and Abb, and Khelli,
son of Clane, and many others, all
great warriors and mighty in battle.

Now when the battle started, a
great shout arose from the throngs,
and the noise was like the wrath of the
heavens when there breaketh a storm.

10. And the battle raged with great
fury.
11. But when the strife was over the

host of Dal was victorious and there
were many in the ranks of Akad, sore
stricken. And the field was littered
with the dead and dying.

12. For the host of Dal was a mighty

host, and they had those who could kick, | «¢

as it is called, many cubits.

13. And when the menof Akad saw
that they were vanquished they were
sore ashamed.

14. Now there was nearby a bazaar,
and it was called the ‘‘Palms’’ and in
the bazaar there was much merrymaking, yea dancing and feasting and
drinking. And the people of Dal were
joyful. Yea even David, son of Clane
and Joseph of the tribe of Dents.

15. And not long after that the
citizens of Dal did set forth for their
homeland and there was a great noise
rattling as the chariots of Dal drove
away. F

16. And the sight was wonderful to
behold.
17. For verily there were many

strange and varied chariots.

18. There was the mighty chariot
of John At, of the tribe of Lau, and the
mighty chariot of a Bishop, and a strange
small chariot from the Hill of Pines,
that was of Raub, the son of Don.
And it was covered with many strange
inscriptions and caused great astonishment among the countries through
which they passed. And there were
three score of other chariots.

19. And so the day was won.

a

SPORT

It is just recently that the world of
sport has acknowledged the presence of
girls in its domain. The acknowledgement has been gained only by the
changing of narrow concepts, and by the
demonstration of the modern girl that
she can really measure up to the standard. When we view the matter from
an angle of time, we can see what radical changes have taken place in a few
short years. How our grandmothers
would have looked upon the mere idea
of entering into competition, displaying
their strength to the masculine eye,
is something to conjure with. No doubt
they held the idea that a girl’s place
was “beside the fire’’ and that she should
conduct herself accordingly. It was
this age-old conception of woman's
place that has held, back a rightful
heritage of womanhood—that of a
strong, healthy body.

To trace the development of women’s
sport is to count a few dauntless spirits
that cared not for the sneers of their
kind, but who went ahead for the sheer
joy of activity. With the acknowledgement of woman as man’s equal has
come a universal desire to use their
strength in activities hitherto conceded
to be man’s alone.

It is only natural that the field of
sport should attract the independent
spirit and the mind that knows itself
to be the equal of man. There is not
only strength of body displayed here,
but also strength of mind. Few can
realize that it takes courage to run the
gauntlet of public opinion and enter
into sport. Once a girl has done this
she ha’ taken a stand which must be
defended by herself.

If any girl believes she loses her feminity by entering into competitive sport
she has a mistaken opinion. For ever,
we hope, has gone the clinging vine:
now a girl is a pal, and to be a real pal
she must be of a strong mind and healthy body. Because one can display
strength and endeavour to follow the
standards of men cannot displace the
fact that she is always a girl.

The tomboy has left us for ever, and
in her place has come the girl who is
acknowledged as an athlete with her
own standards. Every girl should strive
for this goal and leave behind forever
the tripping steps and terrified shrieks
of her ancestors who never knew what
a real live body was.

—Eileen Cameron '29.

 

  

  

| That Well
Groomed Appearance!

 
 

Have your hair cut every 10 days
by one of LEE’S expert barbers
and maintain a neat appearance.

LEE’S.

| Basement Barber Shop
Sackville St., Halifax, N. S.

      
 
 
 

  

 

  

 

 
      

of Bunc||

    

    

       

 

eri tt WN
‘2 ral .

   

a
a4 A
ee pee!

~

“Good evening, everybody! This is
Faculty Broadcasting Station, QUIZ,
situated on the fifth floor, Science
Building, Dalhousie University. ‘When
more students are plucked, we will
pluck them.’ J. H. L. J. announcing.
To-night we have a treat in store for
all our little Freshmen and Freshettes
for Uncle Stan HIMSELF is going to
tell you a bed time story. Dr. Stewart
is now getting off a ‘‘new" Scotch joke
in the next room, kindly stand by for
a moment please...... (laughter) Station QUIZ. I shall now introduce to
our large radio audience, Uncle Stan—"

“Ladies and Gentlemen, and I thus
address you appeerances, notwithstanding, being to the contrary. Once upon
a time there was a bright lad named
George. George lived in the country
and he loved to study his lessons.
One day his papa said to him, ‘Georgie,
my lad, how would you like to go to
college?” and George being a highspirited lad leaped for joy, ‘Fine,’ he
said and becoming Kollegiate right

away he slapped his old man on the| B

back so hard that he coughed out his
false teeth.”’

“George knew all about Kollege
already for hadn't he attended’ every
Kollegiate movie in his home town?
He had practised how to shake hands,
greet co-eds, initiate freshmen, drink
College Spirit, and win a_ football
game in the last minute of play. Arrayed in his Kneat Kampus Klad Kollesiate Kut Knickers he knocked at the
door of Room B one sunny afternoon
in September. ‘‘Well’’ enquired the
Registrar in his usual cheery way
"ome in,’

‘Hell-li-lu-ya!' greeted George, ‘Shoot
the time-table for the year, kid—and
how!’

‘Latin 1, French 1, Chemistry 1,
Mathematics 1, English 1.’

‘Wrap 'em up’ said George ‘I'll take
‘em,’ and three hours later (after he
had filled out a few forms) he left the
building. George didn’t darken the
door of the Library Building again
till after the Christmas holidays—he
was too busy playing football, BenHuring, attending dances, becoming
initiated, joining fraternities, reading
the new rules for decorating the gymnas
 

 

Tress

I THINK that I shall never see
A poem lovely as a tree!

A tree whose hungry mouth is prest
Against the Earth’s sweet flowing
breast;

A tree that looks at God all day
And lifts her leafy arms to pray;

A tree that may in summer wear
A nest of robins in her hair;

Upon whose bosom snow has lain;
Who intimately lives with rain.

Poems are made by fools like me,
But only God can make a tree!

JOYCE KILMER.

Srl Ge eee
> i ts ir i ey tin > 
* ‘ f

ium, and drinking in his full share of
College Spirit, when one day he received a letter whlh read.

Mr. George Brown,
Dalhousie University,

Dear Sir:—Owing to the results of the
recent Christmas Examinations it will
be necessary to interview the Registrar
regarding your future course (if any)
at the University.

(Signed)

Chairman, Committee of Studies
and Attendance.

P. S—Merry Christmas!

George couldn't stand it any longer.
“So this is Kollege”’ he cried. The
next morning he left for home. To-day
he is one of the most successful aluminum salesmen on Cape Breton Island.”

‘Now boys and girls, we all can’t be
as brave and as handsome as George,
but with a little perseverence and hard
work some of you might succeed in
getting through Geology 1 at Christmas.
ut remember twenty-three of my best
plucking profs. are sworm to get you
dead or alive. Be good boys and girls;
take the words of your professors for
nothing—verify your references, burst
into paroxysms of laughter during
Philosophy 1 lectures, and just a
parting word to Freshettes—don't put
much faith in those officers of the
Students’ Council. Good night little
folk, go right to bed before the sandman comes, and pleasant, pleasant
dreams.”

“Faculty Broadcasting Station QUIZ,
Dalhousie, “When more students are
lucked, we will pluck them.’ You have
just been
bed time story. This concludes our
program for this evening. Our next
broadcast will be one week from to-day,
when Prof. Bennet, B. A. (Cantab)
will give a 45 minute address on
“Nothing At AIl” or, ‘‘What is Drama?”
Station QUIZ signing off at 9.15
Howard Murray Dismissal Time (half
hour late). The Physics Department
will now broadcast the correct time.

When you hear the ringing of Dr.||
Bronson’s clock, you will know that it is||

exactly a 20% error (plus or minus).
Good night, everybody'”

Shes

I THINK that I shall never see
A poem as lovely as a she.

eee

A she whose wondrous form is drest
With all a French coturier’s best:

A she who looks at me all dav
And holds her arms, inviting—SAY!

A she who may in summer wear
A sort of ‘‘Let’s-go-paddling” air;

Who looks so stately in a train,
A very fitting queen to reigne

Poems are made by fools like me—
But only Godsoe gets the she.

DONT KILME.

 

V erse
ADVICE TO

~ REMEMBRANCE

 

Today I felt your hand upon my hair,

And turned and looked for you in quick
surprise;

But only endless streets and shadows
there

With emptiness to mock my searching

eyes;

“What, tears?” they ask, ‘‘No, no, just
wind-blown spray

From off the wave,” and ‘‘Did you
think to see

Some friend or other pass along this
way—

Or has the place recalled a memory?”

{ laugh at them and scorn such foolish
words,

Then talk about the things that make
friends smile,

And clap my hands and point at singing
birds;

So they forget and leave me for awhile,

To search the shadows tossed along the
street—

And wonder what to say if we should
meet.

—-Eileen Cameron *29.

 

Wishes

If wishes were iron, I'd build me a ship,
And sail o’er the ocean blue.
My wishes would bear me o’er wavelet

 

and dip
To the heaven-like haven of You.

If wishes were silver, I'd cast me a form

Of beauty beyond compare.

My wishes would mirror your sweet
smile so warm

And the glint of the sun in your hair.

If wishes were golden I'd buy me a store

Of treasures both rich and rare.

These gifts would I humbly lay at your
door

For one — from your countenance
air.

If wishes were diamonds they could not
outshine

The light in vour eyes so true.

The cold glint that gleams from the
jewel most fine

Is eclipsed by a sweet glance from you.

But wishes are wishes howe’er we construe
And deeds are much stranger—true;

But while | am wishing to me there is|

> ue— . .
One lone wish.—I am wishing for you.

—T.A.H.

DAL GAZETTE

The poets of the older schools
Were unaware of molecules:

The maunderéd of eternal hills

Or dallied with their daffodils,

But knew as much of Physics as
Cato the Elder did of Jazz.

 

The bio-chemistry of cells

Laid not its high romantic spells
On minds that were content to note
The magic of the song-bird’s throat,
But were completely in the dark
About the larynx of the lark.

To me the smallest tiniest dab
Of protoplasm in the ‘lab’

Is far more excellently bright
Than any phantom of delight;
For there | see, with eye serene,
The very pulse of the machine.

O purblind poets, cease your praise
Of birds and flowers in childish lays,
And help us as we bravely probe
The composition of the globe;
Wake from your enervating dream
Up, bards, and atoms be your theme.

 

Warum

I dreamed, last night, I kissed my love.
The longed-for bliss was bitter-sweet:
Alone, in all the mist above,
His face was bright, while at my feet.

Great hyacinths with purple heads
Wept softly. O’er us, far and near,

As green waves sigh o'er coral beds,
The cool air breathed a note of fear.

A song, from soft-throated bird,
Broke the stillness once, and died.
A haunting song, without a_ word,
It spoke of caves where dreamthoughts hide.

The air was filled with myrrh’s perfume
From lands, where cypress shadows lie
Across old tombs. The whole, a plume
Of fire, waxed fierce and waned.
But why?
“‘Somnia."’

——

ee
| MACLEOD, BALCOM,
—DRUGGISTS—

5 STORES
34 Morris St. 174 Spr. Garden Rd,
103 Young St. 139 Agricola St.
Cor. Quinpool Rd. and Oxford St.
HALIFAX, N.S.

       
     
   
 

 

listening to Uncle Stan’s| }

 

 
 
   

-what if you do bri
the unexpected gue
home to dinner and the

wife gives you the icy glare

a to
Soanele Meee

oie

    

      
  
 
 

   
 
      
 
 
   
 
  
  
    
  

      
     
        
 
  

  
      
 

    

    
        
   
  
   
   
   
   
    
  
  

 
 
   
    
      
     
   
 
      
      
   
      
  
  

 
   
    
  
  
  

 
 

- SAVE THE.
POKER HANDS

  
 
 

    
      

All Dalhousie Students

especially the Book Lovers
are cordially invitedto make

THE BOOK ROOM

141 Granville Street
their Headquarters

   

The
Halifax Chronicle

AND

The
Halifax Daily Star

The

fastest growing

 
   
     
   
    

Come in and browse and
make yourself atghome.

E. VICKERY, Manager.

    
  

The Greatest Asset of a business tS lo give customers
what they want—when they
want tt.

JOB AND SOCIETY PRINTING

always delivered when
promised at the

Nova Print Limited

227-229 Hollis Street
One Block North of Post Office

  

newspapers in

 
    

Nova Scotia

   
  

      
    
 

   

HEADQUARTERS

FOR EVERYTHING
IN

SPORTING GOODS
AT POPULAR PRICES

MacDonald Hardware Co
SPRING GARDEN RD.

 

   

 

PIANOS, VICTROLAS,

Small Musical Instru
ments and Victor Records
We invite you to join our

FICTION LENDING LIBRARY

2 cents per day

McDonald Music Co.

393Barrington St. Halifax

WE FEATURE
FOOTBALL
FASHIONS

Coats-Dresses-Hats
JENSEN & MILLS

CO., LIMITED
Spring Garden Road

 

   

 

Xmas Cards

Come in and pick them out now

We will hold your selection and

keep them fresh until you need
them

 

STUDENTS’ ELECTRIC

Correspondence Cards }
LAMPS AND SUPPLIES

Wonderful Values at attractive
price

Freeman’s Pharmacy

COR. COBURG and HENRY

| FARQUHAR BROS. LTD. |

Barrington Street

 

“The complete armanent of a Francian in one set of
covers’’—N. Y. Times Review

_ANTHOL FRANCE, THE PARISIAN

By Herbert L. Stewart, Head of the Department of Philosophy, Dalhousie
University, Halifax.

8 vo. $3.00

T.C. ALLEN & CO.

HALIFAX

 

 

Progressive Newspapers——

Support projects that will help build up
their locality and bring prosperity to
their city and province.

That is why these papers supported the
building of a new, fireproof hotel in Halifax.
Students can keep well informed about the
development of Nova Scoria by reading

THE HALIFAX HERALD

AND

THE EVENING MAI

 

 
     

  
    
 

 
  

  

ei

   

   

rs

a ae Goer ote

A, Fines F — be a H
atk, ST. F. X. : GAME
J ie

id = outplayed th
_ strong on that point Dal showed an

one "Tee the he bal Rugby

pe ae : nn
its Wolpe
‘ Bs -team last
the oe revian's campus.
ope Sareea

Da mea hase pare rt we are ata

i flea as to what reason we should attriba a their defeat, for a tie with St. F. X.

in footba
a defeat

ll is as bad, if not worse than,
from the ‘Wanderers. Press
also seem to indicate that Dal

 

Py a bad 9 jiece of bad luck when a free
«i sero

1ich would have won the game,
the bar and bounded back into
field. Considering the absolute
in such a game it
not surpris
at phase of

e Dalhousians. Never

ement this year but are still weak,

and judging by the weather conditions

. ey in the game so far, the team with the

 

ay
3
lel
ie
Im

Ug

i4
a
at

r

oe

| ra —— = aie =
Beg
= i 1 :
ie. ee

a.
>
+

 

   
   
 

Smith, Mitchell. Referee:

bene

, “Bunker”

_to the tape. Dunlop failed to

is steadily climbing and has a good

chance of winning. The standing to
date:

Kelly McLean........4..... 3,650

. Smith. CRUE Y elvle a PR vik o's! 1,450

Bunker Murphy........... 700

We ABOCMMEIIDS Ino aiy ode saa 4 600

eg ee 450

Fred Jennings,............ 400

Aub. upper tee e ee eee . *“* 350

~- ™ 7 Lan stroth see ere eae 300

Ed. Brown + a 300

Mickey McDonald.. : 200

sere ) Fader... ... SAP 200

Hughie Martin............ 159

: Lee ler... ... avaveveeen 100

Ort ewat.. . . . . . 100

RE RVR 36 «esses 448 50

Kee AOMORI o3 Hho erie’, 50

iM NECTION sehen ene 50

-Giip Ge and vote for your man.

best dribblers is going to have the
better chance for victory should this
weather prevail.

Our line up: Full back: McLeod;
: A. Sutherland, H. Sutherland,
pacer Hewat; Quarters: Wickwire, Jones, Tupper; Forwards: Townshend, Scott, Campbell, Dunlop, Irving,
Bernard
Currie.

—J. W. W.

| SPORT COMMENT |b:

POPULAR PLAYER INJURED
Last Thursday “Bunker”

 

 

Murphy

_ broke his collar bone in practise and the

Dal Senior team is now minus the
services of its strongest three-quarter. Just
what effect the loss of “Bunker” from
iy team will have is hard to say but he
going tc ia Ea a mighty hard man to

‘ the final game with the
aiseieh oil depend a lot on just
how the he Bap created last Thursday can
t is peverally thought. that

e Bunker will be able to make the

| i | ey: Vancouver and that is about the

right bit of news we ser in
we express our sympathy an
hopes for a speedy recovery, to the

| team the same.

DAL POOR IN MEET

The showing of Dal’s track men at the
recent indoor sports held at Dartmouth
wasn’t chronicled in any of the local
dailys for the simple reason that they
failed to place. This is no disgrace to
them for it was their first go at an indoor track and considering that their
showing wasn’t bad at all. Dowell,
who is rapidly showing a marked ability
to cover the 880 in good time, is still a
bit too heavy and although he set the
pace in his race at Dartmouth, his
more experienced opponents beat. him
place
in the 440 more because his driving
style is not suited for the indoor track
than anything else. Leigh Miller did
not enter the sprints and wil] not run
any more this year.

As usual Miss Gertrude Phinney,
X-Dal, came out on top in her events.
Miss Phinney won the 50, 220 and
high Peet iss Cameron and Miss
Fraser of albonsie also competed in the
women’s events.

—J. W. W.

ese peepee cence
AB. SMITH TAKES SECOND
PLACE

 

 
  
   
 
 
   
   
   
       
     
     
     
     
 

 

Kelly’? McLean Well In Lead In
Popularity Contest

“Kelly” McLean received 2500 votes
last ak in the Majestic Theatre's
Popular College Athlete Contest, giving
him first ee on the list.« Ab.
Smith who has up to now led the polls,
takes second place with a total vote of
oO, Bunker Murphy with 700 votes

  
  
  
 

   
    

worth 50 vot ill be
“found eons eae Majestic rhhnatee’s
this issue of the Gazette.

: Gy wD The por saP “ot a teeta gis
|silence on Armistice day seems a very
i aie matter aside from what it re
     

that it was in|
e ooo that the Xaver- }.

||| t#= SONG SHOP ro.

ts. Two minutes pe ys from the}

dividually is

cong
ook in es British >mpire observed
re ere would be a silence of 624,800
If every person in the United
pate observed it there would be a
‘total silence of 147,000 years.
a out of eos hundred observed the
lence in the British Ema ire and the
onc States the silence esi total
7,720 years.

If every student at Dalhousie observed the two-minute period the total
— amount to some twenty-six

urs.

MACCABEAN SOCIETY
HOLD MEETING

The Maccabean Society is alive once
again. At the first meeting several
lively discussions tended to create an
atmosphere that augurs well for the
coming season.

The election of officers resulted as
follows:

Charles Gavsie, B. A., President.

Sarah M. Volinsky, Vice-President.

Samuel Jacobson, Treasurer

Josephine S. Dresner, B. A., Secretary.

(in absentia)

The meeting was held at the home
of Miss Alice Mushkat, Oxford Street
and after the discussions were over
refreshments were served and an interesting musical programme carried out
with great interest.

On Monday evening the Maccabeans
were hosts to their many friends at a

very enjoyable dance, in the Synagogue

What with Clyde Keyes’ Orchestra, elaborate decorations and dainty
refreshments the evening was greatly
enjoyed.

Ie may be stated that the Maccabean
Society is the official Jewish organ in
pera all American Collges. At

alhousie the circle meets every two

weeks. The programme is_ divided
into 3 parts: cultural, musical and
social. Prominent speakers address the
circle. Papers are read and debates
held. The Society has been particularly active during the last two years
and is anticipated by the executive
that this year will go beyond its pledge,

een pen eee

 

 

CASINO NOTES

The London (England) Daily Chronicle in a review of the motion picture,
“Seventh Heaven,” which opens on
Monday, November 14th at the Casino
Theatre says:

“There is now in London a picture
which, if it were presented at a West
End Theatre, as it ought to be presented,
would run for a year. It is. called
“Seventh Heaven.’ It is so emphatically the best emotion picture ever made
that there is no other picture to be
even remotely compared with it. It
is a story of Paris, but it has no Cabaret.
It is perfectly acted, but it does not
present in its cast one instance of what
the film world knows a ‘‘name.” It is
the perfect picture.”

And they go on at length which
space will not permit to reprint here.
The “‘stars” in this remarkable picture
are Charles Farrell and Janet Gaynor,
and from what can be gathered from
advance reports these artists do some

 

  

      
 

Justice MacKenzie and Sperry, the
sidered Senior Counsel Teaver and Kelloway
| very ably argued their case. Both
| men took advantage of the opportunity
offered for rebuttal and displayed a
| startling knowledge of the law.

   
   

 
 
    
   
   

a disgusting article entitled “Mt. A.
Well Represented,”
therein, his own name ‘‘in the interest of
veracity.”

      
    

mitted reading the article and then
contradicted himself.

    
     
   
 

covers that portion of piano, called

      
   

said prisoner was dangerous.

       
 
    
   
    

"HAS BUSY DAY

Wefarebiet Justice Farmer and

 

Dustan was accused of publishing

and mentioning
Keyes on cross-examination first ad
Godsoe: Play piano real good?

Keyes: Yes

Gousoe. Then you know your Keyes.
Turnbull (interrupting): Since ivory

Keyes, then assuredly you're Keyes.
Don Grant on the witness stand

The prisoner was now asked his
name.

Dustan. “Bits”.

Turnbull: Doesn't ‘‘Bits’’
all there’?

Dustan: (hesitatingly): Yes!

Turnbull: 1 ask the Court to take
judicial notice that the prisoner admits
he’s not all there!

Outhit sadly stated that the prisoner
was so strikingly guilty of a nefarious
outrageous crime that his defence falls
down on every point.

i

mean ‘‘not

FOREIGN MISSIONS

 

At a special meetin
Volunteer Band of Da housie which was
held in the Munro Room Sunday November 1, Dr. W. L. Armstrong, secretary of the Foreign Missions department of the United Church of Canada
addressed the members present and
gave some very interesting and helpful information with regard to the
necessary qualifications for the modern
missionary.

The Student Volunteer® Board of
Dalhousie is a unit of the Student Volunteer Movement of America, whose

purpose is to study missionary questions

and to challenge students to a life of
missionary service abroad. The Dalhousie group, which includes both men
and women students, meets each Sunday from 2.15 to 3.00 p.m. in the Munro
Room, Forrest Building. The study
for the next few weeks is on China.
all students interested in this work will be
ie welcome at these meetings.

he group is also looking forward to
a visit ‘a the near future from Murray
Brooks, general secretary of the S. C. M.

—Warren Duchemin.

George F. Power
Cigars Cigarettes, Tobaccos
SMOKERS’ REQUISITES

of every Description.

—Also—

Cards, Souvenirs of Halifax
Majestic Bidg.
AX a

 

of oi finest acting ever seen on the SESE

 

CLASS
JEWELLERY

We enjoy the distinction of
making Eegewnny all Dalhousie
Class Jewellery.
We appreciate the trust placed
in us by the Dalhousie students
and in turn always assure them
of our very best service.
|} HENRY BIRKS & SONS
LIMITED

} Diamond Merchants

HALIFAX

Dathousie Stationery

24 Sheets Writing Paper
stamped with the Dalhousie Crest and 24 Envelopes to match.

Special 50c Box

      
       
     
       
     
 
      
  
 

Connolly’s Book Shop

487 BARRINGTON ST.
Opposite St. Paul’s Church

YELLOW CAB
LIMITED
SAC. 4444

Halifax’s Only Metered
Service

Same Rates 24 Hours.
Two travel for same as one.
More than two, 20 cents extra.

   
 
 
 

for ANYTHING in
Music

22s |
ets ete

 

 
 

 
 
    

|| Barrington and Sackville Sts |

THE HOME OF
Cut Flowersk- Potted Plants

{

| Say ti with Flowers, Say it with ours
|

We make up Funeral Designs,

also Wedding Bouquets. We also
do Table Decorating. We are the
only members of the T. F. D. Florists. We can wire Flowers to
all parts of the world.

Che Roserp

8 BLOWERS ST.
Phone Sac. 3321-3322
Night Phone Sac. 1934

| SPECIAL |
“LAB” BOOK

LOOSE LEAF BOOKS

REFILLS—INDEX SHEETS
AND TABS

FOUNTAIN PENS

and expert repair department

TEXT BOOKS
Special orders promptly executed

FARRELL’S

391 Barrington St.

makes out Low Price
Doubiy Attractive

|| SUITS, OVERCOATS |
i FULL DRESS and
TUXEDO , at one

price

524

MADE-TO-MEASURE

     
  
  
    
   
   
   

    
  
  
   
 

    
   
    

THE STUDENTS’ TAILORS
TRAMWAY BUILDING

   
   
    
  
  
  

of the Students | |

Tip Top Tailors }

    

POPULAR CLASS PRESIDENT
SUSTAINED ON A WANT OF
CONFIDENCE VOTE

J. R, MeNeil, president of the third
ear Medical class was again brought

 

Into the limelight when the daily meeting of the class, he was sustained in a
want of confidence motion.
was made by Dodo, on the grounds that
the President was not peroraning his
duties preety in that much of the
work was

class. He based his statements on the
fact that when the class decided that
all afternoons of the week from Nov.

The motion

eft to other members of the

ist to 8th be free from classes so that

the members of the third year might
attend the various shows,

President
MacNeil refused to interview the Pror
essors in this matter and the work had

to be done by Artie Sangster, with

excellent results, to wit, the classes were

held as usual.

The motion was seconded by J. R.
MacLeave who told of the various
duties of the President which he himself
had to perform, e. g., the getting of
Gazettes from the Forrest building for
the class members. Much discussion
then arose and epithets of a complementary nature—and otherwise—- -were
freely indulged in, resulting in a fistic
encounter between Freddy Cheeseman
and ‘Frenchie’ MacDonald, during
which the former struck the latter on the
nose. Peace, was at last restored and
a vote was taken in which the motion
was defeated by a majority of one.

So John remains as president of the
class.

FOOTWEAR
Swanky Oxfords

Styled for Young Men,
correct in style—and easy
on Finances. A shoe you'll
be proud to wear.

 

—_———__-—
New Shoes for the
College Girl

Shoes for street and
sport wear and_ also
slippers appropriate for
the coming evening events.

all

Wallace Bros

427
Barrington St. Cor Sackville

SHOES!

College men and college
women have shoe styles all
their own—we find English
lasts great favourites with
college men. We have
these in

ENGLISH MADE SHOES

Also best Canadian makes
as **Astoria’’ Brand.

—_——
Both men and women students will find our Spring
Garden Road Branch a
great convenience, or call
at the Main Store—555-559
Barrington St.

W.L. Tuttle

 

Globe Laundry Ltd. |

50 Buckingham Street

G. W. SPRAGUE, Vice-Pres.

C. W. SPRAGUE, Pres.

The College Students’
Laundry

Telephone S 714

As Usual

The best in Ice Creams, Con
fectionery and Meals, as well

as courtesy, efficent service and

attractive surroundings are to
be had at

The Green Lantern

 

   

| Yo Watt ToS Weut

SEE WALLACE

OPTOMETRIST AND OPTICIAN
Y¥. M. C. A. BLDG. HALIFAX, N. 8

‘THE MILLION DOLLAR MYST
 

~v
r
=4
‘
at
¥

       
             
     
           
     
     
     
     
   
   
           
       
     
      

November, 11th, 1927

THIS THU. FRI. SAT.
W. C. FIELDS

IN
his best comedy

“RUNNING WILD”

First 3 Days Next Week
“The greatest of all pictures’’
(London) Daily Chronicle

‘‘SEVENTH HEAVEN”

Starring

Charles Farrell
Janet Gaynor

ORPHEUS

MON. TUE. WED.
McGrath’s Famous
Story |
“THE MILLION |
DOLLAR MYSTERY”
WITH
James Kirwood and Lila Lee
THUR. FRI. SAT.
THE 13th JUROR
WITH
Anna Q. Nilsson
Francis X. Bushman

ER Y”’ Coming to the Orpheus

 

Years ago “The Million Dollar
Mystery”, Harold McGrath’ $ ingrossing
story was produced in serial form and
became overnight a cinemagraphical
sensation, Now—made anew by the
Rayart Pictures Inc.—this time in
feature form—with a brilliant cast, in
which are included James Kirkwood and
Lila Lee it bids fair to equal and even
to surpass its previous popularity. Be
sure to see it! It comes to the Orpheus
Monday for a three days run.

PROGRAMMES
and other JOB PRINTING

receive our special attention

The ROYAL PRINT & LITHO Ltd.

YOUNG MENS HATS
SPECIAL PRICES

Equal to 20% discount

Howard

 

This week at

Frank Colwell Ltd.

417 Barrington Street

       

 

University Models
for
University Men

 
         

University requirements for scholastic,
athletic or social achievements are exacting.
Alse in the matter of Clothes. These Suits
and Overcoats exactly the type you will like
to wear—Every new color—every accepted
style—every man assured perfect satisfaction.

      
   
   
     
   

      

$27.50 $30.00 $35.00
$30.00 $35.00 $40.00 $45.00

SUITS $22.00
OVERCOATS $25.00

W. iF PAGE

$25.00
$27.50

      
       
   
    

Barrington Stree
Cor resins

   
    

ENGINEERING COURSES

in
CIVIL, ELECTRICAL, MECHANICAL AND MINING
To Dalhousie Students with Engineering Diploma
MODERN EQUIPMENT

Instructing Staff with Industrial Experience
Tuition Fee $75.00 per year. Twenty-five scholarships of $75.00 each

Write or call for Calendar or advice.

F. H. SEXTON, Pres.

  

  
      
     
   
   

COLWELL BROTHERS

Limited

     

453-457 Barrington Street

MEN’S HATS, CLOTHING, FURNISHINGS
AND LUGGAGE

HIGH CLASS GOODS AT MODERATE PRICES

 
     
   
 
   

Young Fellows—

For the earnest young man on the threshold of business life, nothing can
give a greater sense of present security, or givea greater certainty of future
progress, than to hold an endowment policy.

Only prudent and forward-looking men insure their lives—but these are
the qualities that impress employers. for they bespeak the man who expects
success. And the payment of a good sum in early or middle life will give effect
to all the work that has gone before,

THE SUN LIFE ASSURANCE CO OF CANADA
to W. W. BARRY,

Provincial Manager,
Room 309,
Dennis Building, Halifax

     
       
       
   
     
    
 

DON’T FORGET
THE

Commercial Club Minstrels

MAJESTIC, NOV. 14, 15, 16

POPULAR COLLEGE ATHLETE CONTEST

In conjunction with the “THE COLLEGIANS” at the
MAJESTIC THEATRE

EVERY SECOND MONDAY

BRAND By sc sccise: 5. eaten Ascerpete VOR MURR Gacee Ea ek | ee een ore DUNE ST me

CDE EG iy are Sect eae rant a ioe? ce ee

GOOD FOR FIFTY VOTES (50)

When Presented at the Door of the Theatre at any performance.
ALL Male Co!lege Students Eligible.

CONTEST CLOSES DEC., 14th, 1927

 
   
     
     
       
    
  

  
      
   
