Pe Otel |
‘
uy f i

L
rt. Te oe ene

t

fa i - a a.

* : ee
7 if ye uel

Srey ee tet, «

Ad eae rt

;
hee :
at
wet eS fy. i.

Y *

rs, Oe as

LARGEST
CIRCULATION
OF ANY COLLEGE
PAPER IN THE
MARITIMES

el
mT

{

|
‘Toa
rr

ome)
1)
DOO,
Mn

MEMORIAL

HUTA,
}
il

EDITION

    

EEE denne

— Official Student Publication at Dalhousie University—

VOL. LX. | | s NO. 9

DALHOUSIE MOURNS THE PASSING OF LOYAL FRIEND

COUNCIL VOICES TRIBUTE | ™)| GEO. S. CAMPBELL DIES
OF THE STUDENT BODY! SUDDENLY IN MONTREAL

Pm UNDERGRADUATES SHARE COMMUNITY’S SENSE OF CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS SUCCUMBS

HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA, NOVEMBER 25th, 1927

eet ee i re eee ened

 

 

 

  

 

 

 

LOSS—EXTEND DEEPEST SYMPATHY TO FAMILY

When the news of the death of Mr. G. S. Campbell spread
throughout Dalhousie Monday morning it left in its wake
a path of sincere sorrow which was shared by every student.
Some of us were fortunate enough to have known him better
than others, but all had heard of him, and all were able to
realize and to appreciate that we had lost a loyal friend and
a kind benefactor. Last year when he was ill and lay battling
for his life we who were then students followed anxiously
the daily bulletins concerning his condition,—and it was with a
sigh of relief, breathed alike by all Halifax, that we learned
of his ultimate recovery. We were pleased to think that he
was well on the road to good health again—and then, a few
short days ago came the sad message of his unexpected passing.

Dalhousie will miss Mr. Campbell sorely. His associations with her date back many years, and never for a moment despite numerous business and social affiliations has - he
allowed his interest to wane in the slightest. His presence on
the board of Governors for twenty years, and his chairmanship of it during the past years gave him splendid opportunities to display his wise judgment and capable leadership,
and it is largely to his ambitions and efforts that we owe the
great progress which has of late years taken place within the
University. He unsparingly devoted his time and his energy
to Dalhousie’s welfare, and lived to see many of his.dreams
come true, whilst others will take form in the future—in the
Dalhousie of tomorrow.

As a benefactor and friend we who are students particularly cherish Mr. Campbell—no worthy. student. appeal
made to him ever fell upon deaf ears. The ‘George H. Campbell Scholarships” in Arts and Science are well known, and
have been the means of materially assisting many a student
of limited means, but worthy ambition, Many . have been
fortunate enough to win one of these- scholarships, and I
feel sure that whatever success they have obtained or shall

_attain Jater on, they may. credit in no. small degree.as well
to the inspiration of Mr. Campbell himself, as to his generisity.
Last spring upon the inauguration of the Year Book, a student
committee faced with -Herculean difficulties, and almost .discouraged, received such a stimulus in the assistance and encouragement of Mr. Campbell that everything immediately
appeared more cheerful and hopeful—and resulted in the Year
Book being the unqualified success it was. Only a few months
ago he showed his interest in the Rugby Team by making ane
of the first and most substantial contributions towards the
expenses of the trip to British Columbia. In addition, whilst
he was on the Board of Governors, the students were assured
in that body of a voice which was ever ready, to champion their
interests and encourage their good cause.

(Continued on. Page 2.)

In Memorian
G.S.C.

“And dead calm in that noble breast.’

Nature is in no mood of sympathy with death. Though
frosty, the autumn morning is bright with sunshine, and out of
tune with the heavy news from the far city where the true friend
lies cold and inert. The ageing of the year shows in the leafless branches, but above them is the deep, unmoved, translucent
blue of the northern sky. Nature is not depressed. .by the
sorrow of her creature, man. . |

He was like this day. Time had set its mark upon him;
the years had whitened his hair; cruel disease had weakened
his frame; but neither age nor loss nor suffering had bent
his head or dimmied the welcoming brightness of his smile.

And he had known sorrow. Success came late, after many
years of toil and struggle. He had known the anguish of
losing cherished children, one after the other. But he lived on
and mastered grief. With success and wealth came not ease
and self-indulgence, but ever larger opportunities for service,
ever higher regard from the community which knew him best
and ever growing eminence in the eyes of all.

These were halcyon days. Life seemed offering ample
compensation for the years wherein he had seen affliction, :when
the war came. Ittook hisonly son. Friends rallied to him
to soothe and to condole, but they did not see a man broken
by calamity. Still he carried his head high, for he was great
of heart. Bereavement did not. abate his energy. He only
labored more abundantly for the common good.

“I have nothing to regret,” he said to a friend but a few
weeks ago; for, with his habitual, clear-eyed courage, he resolutely faced the end.

A man of many cares and many responsibilities, he gave
himself ungrudgingly in the discharge of every- obligation.

A man of many friends, he showed himself friendly. He had,

not an enemy. His home was a centre of gracious and generous hospitality. To him was granted length of. days, with
undiminished powers of mind unto the very end; and the end
came swiftly.
Then with no throbbing, fiery pain,
No cold gradations of decay,
Death broke at once the vital chain,
And freed his soul the nearest way.

Av Mi M.

 

ee George S. Campbell

| It is given to few men to have said about them during their
lives that which is said of them when dead. There is no tribute
which we can pay to the memory of the late George S. Campbell which we have not paid him in his presence when living.
If of the dead we are told we must say nothing but good, it is of
happy.memory to recall that of him alive we could say nothing
but good. The more we had to do with him, on whatever ground
we met him, the more he appealed to all that is best in us, and
the more he drew us with him and to him.

Of a great warrior dead and victor on distant battlefields,
or a great statesman fallen in the midst of political debate,
eaught by the glamour we extol the glory and acclaim him here.
But ‘when we give high place to one who has his daily walk and
talk with ourselves, with no distance and no false glamour
to give enchantment to our view, we must have found in him
that which makes the man, the real man, all naked of the tinsel
and the light of the stage. Such we found in Mr. Campbell,
as this proud but sorrowing university proves; proud that they
had proved him and found him true, and that they could claim
his friendship, and filled with sorrow that his presence can no
more be among them.

(Continued on Page 2.)

Tribute Of Senate

Copy of Minute with regard to the death of
Dr.G, S. Campbell which was drawn up by Dean Murray
and adopted by the Senate of the University.

“The members of the Senate of Dalhousie University desire
to place upon record an expression of their deep sorrow and their
profound sense of the loss which has been sustained through
the death of Dr. George S. Campbell, Chairman of the Board
of Governors of this University.

In Dr. Campbell there was to be found an exceedingly
fine and rare combination of the elements that enter into the
making of the ideal gentleman and the born leader of men.
Starting from a comparatively humble beginning he succeeded
by sheer dint of hard work combined with native ability, force
of character, and altogether exceptional qualities of head
and heart, in gradually forging his way onward and upward,
until he not ony occupied a high place in the world of commerce
and finance, but .also attained the very highest place in the
hearts of his fellow-citizens. |

_ Every good cause and every effort directed towards the
betterment of the community always met with his wholehearted sympathy and generous support. Seeking. the happiness and the good of others was so ingrained in his nature
that in trying to secure these ends he was often quite unsparing
of himself.

_ His home was the scene of innumerable acts of the most
delightful hospitality. In these he was most ably assisted by
his talented wife and daughter to whom in their great sorrow
the hearts of all now go forth in deepest sympathy.

Dr. Campbell's interests, as might be expected in the
case of a man of his abilities and temperament, were many and
varied. Affairs of Church and of State, systems of trans
-portation by sea and by land, financial institutions, industrial

(Continued on Page 2.)

 

TO HEART ATTACK MONDAY

In the passing of Mr. George S. Campbell, Dalhousie
has Jost a true and loyal friend. Although not a University
man himself, Mr. Campbell realized keenly the value of
such an education and proved this by his untiring work on behalf
of Dalhousie.

As Chairman of the Board of Governors, he took a keen
interest in all college activities and was always ready to give
any support; but a few weeks ago, the Gazette mentioned a
generous donation received from Mr. Campbell towards the
Football Trip Fund.

Although Mr. Campbell had not been well for some time,
he had been in better health of late and his sudden death,
early Monday morning came as a severe shock. One of Dalhousie’s finest friends, he will not soon be forgotten.

George S. Campbell was born in Edinburgh, Scotland,
on July 8, 1851, his father being Duncan Campbell, autho1
of “A History of Nova Scotia.’”’ His family came to Halifax
when he was scarcely through his school books and here almost
at once he entered the business life of the City. His first
employment was with the firm of James Scott and Company,
after which he became a clerk in the office of the commercial
firm of F. D. Corbett and Company, the senior member of
which was the late Frederick D. Corbett, with whom Mr.
David Purvis was associated. Mr. Campbell’s business
ability was soon demonstrated and after some years he became treasurer of the firm and confidential assistant to Mr.
Corbett. Upon the retirement of Mr. Purvis, Mr. Campbell
entered the firm asa partner and, on Mr. Corbett’s death the
company was re-organized as G. S. Campbell and Company,
Reginald D. Corbett, son of the founder of the firm becoming a partner. In those days as now the firm acted as agents
for the New York—-Halifax service and ‘“‘Corbett’s wharf,”
now ‘‘Campbell’s wharf’’ has been an important factor in the
business of the Halifax waterfront for about 75 years. The
old firm, besides carrying on a large shipping business, marketed
the large output of the Chase sulphur-match factory, which
was carried on by the new firm for a numberof years. G. S.
Campbell and Company, besides developing the New York
——St. John’s service as agents for the Red Cross line, increased
their sphere of operations by entering the tow-boat business
and today the Company owns quite a fleet of tugs for Halifax
harbor and coastwise service.

Mr. Campbell’s success in his own business brought him
into prominence in commercial and financial circles and he
became a director of a number of important concerns. Two
years ago he was elected President of the Bank of Nova Scotia
of which he had been a director for a number of years. He
was also a director of the Eastern Trust Company; President
of the Halifax and Canso Steamship Company and for some
years a director of the Nova Scotia Steel and Coal Company.
He was active in the councils of the Halifax Board of Trade,
having been President of the Board in 1901 and 1902, and
contributed materially to movements for development of the
general business of the port.

But Mr. Campbell did not confine his activities to the
business world. In fact it was in the sphere of community
welfare that he excelled. He was an active member of many
charitable organizations and he was greatly interested in education and gave freely of his time and money in that connection.
After serving for a number of years as Governor of Dalhousie
University, he was appointed Chairman of the Board and in
recognition of his public service and interest in education generally Dalhousie gave him an honorary degree of Laws.

During the war Mr. Campbell acted as Chairman of the
Patriotic Fund for the Province and with his business experience, financial knowledge and patriotic’ nature, accomplished wonders in the work of administering the fund for
the care of dependents of those on the firing line. Although
he lost his only son, Lieut. George Campbell, who was killed
in action comparatively early in the war, he never faltered
in his activities on behalf of the fund and “‘carried on’”’ bravely.

On June 18, 1887, Mr. Campbell married Miss Helen
Kennedy, daughter of David Kennedy, of Edinburgh, member
of a family internationally famous in musical circles. His
wife and their daughter, Mrs. Thomas Williams, survive
him. A brother, Duncan Campbell, of G. S. Campbell and
Co., also survives him.

 

Alumni's Appreciation

The secret of Mr. Campbell’s ascendance in the esteem of
his fellow men lay in the sincerity of his consideration for the
welfare of others.

One of his many accomplishments was his complete
success as a chairman. No one could more successfully* harmonize and bring out into unified and profitable action those
conflicting views and interests which insistently present themselves at meetings; no one could preside at public gatherings
of all kinds with greater courtesy and charm. All because
of his natural kindliness of heart and grace of manner, prompted
by his love for his fellow man.

The Alumni Association of Dalhousie College mourns
the loss of a vauled member and friend; one who only a few
days before his passing expressed words of encouragement
towards its work.

H. B. STAIRS,
President, Alumni Association of Dalhousie College.

 
 

 

Pie

fd

: eS eee
a" ; ” A
+ a ee . Me }

hy

a”
—

7
r

 
 

He Dalhousie Gasette

ra - . ari
rei os a rm (Founded 1869)

Beater pi ch kt Editor.

ade." FRED C. JENNINGS

News Editor. Sports Editor
y. GRAHAM ALLEN J. W. WHALEN

Exchange Editor.
KATHERINE HANIFEN

oer Associate Editors.
aT BEN GUSS

W. GORDON DUSTAN
MARGARET ELLS

Pe ote Circulation Manager
. S. W. ARCHIBALD

Business Manager.
RALPH S. MORTON
52 Quinpool Rd.
Phone . 304

Subscription Rate : $1.00 per year

 

 

George S. Campbell

. “Those that know thee not, no words can paint
But those that know thee, know that words are faint.”

In the death of George S. Campbell. Il. D., Halifax,
Nova Scotia, and in fact all Canada has been called upon to
mourn the passing of a truly great man,—great in business,
great in council rooms, great in executive activity, great in
philanthropic work, but greatest in his friendliness and _personal interest. Although his ability in business and public life
will long be remembered, it will be the radiating friendliness
and personal magnetism of the man that will remain to his
friends and acquaintances, fresh as a sweet breath of perfume.

The University of Dalhousie is sorely bereaved by his
passing for she has lost a leader, counsellor and guide, whose
very heart was with Dalhousie in all her aims and endeavors.
No activity at Dalhousie, no innovation or improvement was
undergone without the active interest and aid of Dr. Campbell. Although an extremely busy man in affairs of the business world yet he found time to actively cooperate in all that
pertained to the improvement of the university.

As a member of the Board of Governors of the University he worked diligently and effectively for the betterment
of Dalhousie. His extreme interest and his own personal worth
caused many others to become interested in the institution

and to aid it actively and financially. When, in 1908, he
became chairman of the Board of Governors, his influence
for good was greatly enhanced and it can be truly said that his
inception as head of the governing bedy of Dalhousie marks
the beginning of the modern improvement of the university.

In 1912 and again in 1920 he supervised and lead the
campaigns for funds to equip and improve the college and the
success of the campaigns was in no mean measure due to his
activity and to his own personal generosity. Many of the
improvements within our university stand as a silent tribute
to the man who was indefatigible in the interests of Dalhousie.

During the World War Dr. Campbell was a moving
spirit in promoting war loan drives throughout the province of
Nova Scotia and as usual, gave of his time unstintingly. In
July, 1916, he was called upon to make a much greater sacrifice when his son, George, was killed at the Ypres salient.
His son had enlisted in the Canadian forces while a student
at Dalhousie and the loss was a great blow to the father. As
in great spirits, this bereavement served as an impetus to
Dr. Campbell to redouble his efforts in the interests of mankind. In memory of his son he founded a number of scholarships at Dalhousie, truly a memorial worthy of the deed that
prompted it.

In recognition of his great service to the University he was
granted the honorary degree ot LI. D., by the Senate at the
Centenary celebration in 1919. No man deserved the honor
more and no worthier candidate received the distinction.

Active in all matters pertaining to Dalhousie, he took
a deep interest in the move for the federation of universities
which was on foot in 1922 and gave his time and aid unceasingly.
, Not only was he active in Dalhousie circles as the chairman of the Board of Governors but also as a true friend of
all whose who were connected with the university. Not merely
as an institution did he look upon the college, but also he
considered it as an association of men and women and his
personal interest is a matter of common knowledge. His
aim was to have personal contact with the faculty and as far
as possible, with the student body. Although in later years
greater demands on his time sickness and necessitated his
foregoing to some extent this personal contact, many of the
former students have happy memories of the hospitality of the
Campbell household. Dr. and Mrs. Campbell were perfect
host and hostess whose many guests experienced the warmth
of a true welcome.

It was through the efforts of Dr. Campbell that the barrier
between the university and the city of Halifax was lowered.
Some years ago Dalhousie, although in Halifax was not patently of it. By contacts made by the faculty and students
through Dr. and Mrs. Campbell the community of interests
between the city and the university was greatly strengthened.

All activities of the student body were a personal interest to him and his advice and aid were given willingly and
through his aid many student projects have achieved success.

Many tributes have been paid to the memory of Dr.
Campbell by people in all walks of life. His name has been
on the lips of everyone during this week. Downcast eye and
sorrowful countenance express the thoughts that the faltering
tongue cannot put into words. After all words are poor,
weak vehicles to convey the sentiments of regret at the passing
of so great a man.

Great is the loss to Halifax, to Nova Scotia and to Canada for they have lost a true citizen and a fair and honest
_ business man but greater is the loss to Dalhousie and to every
| person connected with Dalhousie for they have lost a friend.
To Mrs. Campbell and to Mrs. Thomas Williams, the
| Gazette extends its sincerest sympathy.

 

ne inate a
Ly 1 ye ier ay ‘ snes.

ae ae paly

Ps ad

my aie :

Tana

Pye
copa ae
ah a
Ms a om

is} iy
ihe
> oy

a
y
"
i,

Me
Af

=»
:

—

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

aS aS
a —

Real Friend and Benefactor

What finer tribute could there be to the worth of anyone
than the sincerity with which his fellow citizens of all classes
and conditions mourn the death of Mr. Campbell? The busyness of his life was in no small measure due to the confidence
reposed in his judgment and integrity, and to the willingness
with which he devoted himself to the cause of others whether
in commercial or religious or social affairs. Dalhousians knew
him particularly in his relation to the University; and not
merely as a wise governor and generous benefactor, but as one
whose interest in every phase of the college work and other
activities of both staff and students was keenly sympathetic.
No matter where he met a Dalhousian he did not fail to

“Let fall a word of hope and lore,
Unstudied, from the heart’’.

And what applies to Dalhousians applies to all with whom
he came in contact. His genuine, unaffected kindliness marked
him conspicuously as one who loved his fellow men. Business
ability, great capacity for work, talent for acquiring knowledge,
and appreciation of the artistic were among the many traits
of Mr. Campbell, but it will be the great goodness of his heart
that will be especially treasured in the memories of those who
were privileged to know him,

The interest which Mr. Campbell showed in the medical
school was naturally very gratifying to me, and a short reference
to it may be pardonable. He followed closely the various details
of the expansion of recent years, watched the construction work
which this involved, made careful inquiries into the type of work
for which the several laboratories were designed, acquainted
himself with the qualifications of those who were being considered for staff appointments—in short, evidenced a lively
concern in every matter related to the development and administration of the school. One could not but marvel that a
man who was involved in such a multitude of other activities
could become so interested in a single faculty of the university.
But a cause for even greater marvel was his knowledge of the
student and graduate body. Every bit of good news about a
Dalhousian gave him evident pleasure, while news of illness
or distress of any kind always evoked his warm sympathy.

In Mr. Campbell’s death, Dalhousie and Dalhousians have
lost a very real friend and benefactor. The debt we owe can be

repaid only by emulating his example.
DR. W. H. HATTIE,

Achievements Were Great

In writing about our much beloved Mr. George S. Campbell it is hard to avoid superlatives and apparent exaggeration.
His achievements were so great and we are all so deeply indebted
to him for his benefactions that restraint is difficult.

Mr. Campbell became chairman of the Board of Governors
of the University at a time when a period of expansion was
necessary in order that Dalhousie might be able to serve the
needs of the community. It is largely owing to his leadership
that Dalhousie has grown from a small college to a great university taking a place of leadership among the institutions of
the Dominion. It is also largely due to his influence that the
gull between university and city has been bridged and Dal
ousie has taken a place in’ the affections of the people of
Halifax. Mr. Campbell’s interests were not linked up in any
way with thelaw but nevertheless he took avery keen interest
in the work of the law school and his advice and encouragement
were freely given to the members of the faculty. It might,
however, be left to others, better qualified, to speak of Mr.
Campbell’s achievements as head of the governing board
of Dalhousie.

I should like to say a few words about the kindly relations that have always existed between the student body
of the university and the late chairman of the Board of Governors. When I was a student at Dalhousie, Mr. Campbell as
a member of the Board and as chairman was always ready to
assist in any student enterprise and he was constantly opening
his home to groups of undergraduates. There are hundreds
of Dalhousians scattered in different parts of the world who
will always treasure memories of the occasions when they
enjoyed the hospitality of Mr. and Mrs. Campbell at their
Young Avenue home. Mr. Campbell had a positive genius
for friendship and for hospitality. The most unsophisticated
student would lose his awkwardness ehen he came into contact with Mr. Campbell’s. kindliness. No Dalhousian in
trouble lacked a friend; his sympathy and counsel were always
available. It is with a feeling of deep personal grief that
Dalhousians of the last twenty years have learned of his death.

J. E. READ.

 

 

COUNCIL’S TRIBUTE
(Continued from page 1)

Many tributes have been written of Mr. Campbell as a
philanthropist, of Mr. Campbell as a church-man, or of Mr.
Campbell as the President of a bank, but I think that we of
the student body can best express our appreciation of Mr.
Campbell as he always appeared before us—as a real man. I
do not think that we could bestow upon him a more worthy
compliment. He won our esteem and confidence as have few
others, and oftentimes we were wont whenever we were faced
with a problem, or in a moment of indecision, to seek his counsel
and experience, as that of one whom we realized was a very dear
friend: Somehow or other he managed to bridge the gap—
I think it was because he wasso human. As might be natural,
it would be with a certain amount of temerity and hesitation
that an undergraduate would meet one in Mr. Campbell's
position. But he was easily approached, and upon meeting
him you were at once placed at your ease by the warmth and
sincerity of his greeting. As you conversed with him you
perceived a kindly, Christian gentleman so open and friendly
that despite the difference in your stations he inspired your
confidence. Although his business and other connections were
legion and must have occupied a great deal of his time, yet
that he was always conversant with student affairs and student
activities impressed me a great deal. We shall miss him and
always hold him kindly in our memory.

To his family the heart of the student body goes forth in
the deepest sympathy. They have been called upon to bid
farewell to a devout husband and a kind father—we have lost
a true and very dear friend, but even in our sorrow we may
be happy in the thought that he leaves behind him the fragrance of his memory and a world the much better for his having

been in it,
J. GERALD GODSOE,

President of Council of the Students.

Assistant Dean of the Medical Faculty.

  

November 25th, 1927

Sanna nena STE a

GE JRGE S. CAMPBELL
(Continued from page 1)

 

The George S. Campbell whom we Dalhousians knew may
have passed away, but he has not and can not take away with
him all that he was and that we prized in him. His gracious
and kindly personality, his charm of manner, his warm grasp
of the hand, his lightning smile, his courteous air even to the
youngest, his sincere and frank eye compelling confidence,
may be no more but in our treasured memories; but he has left
us an example of what we might be, and has_ set a standard
for those to meet who would desire the reward that we so gladly
and fully accord to him.

Is it well to try to analyse the elements and number the
attributes of him who has passed from us? Is it not better
to take the rounded whole, come from where it may, and
appreciate the beauty and the influence of it? With no help
but that which heredity and his home upbringing, no small gifts
in his case, and that which his native talents gave him, he worked
his quiet way from modest beginnings to leadership in the
business world about him. But he did not let the other fibres
of his brain remain unexercised; he cultivated the intellectual
and aesthetic sides of his nature, and literature and the arts
were followed by him and added breadth to his interests, and
helped form the character of his maturer years. But it was the
mellowing influence of a great, warm, human heart that gave
to his personality the pulsing enthusiasms, and the cheer and
kindliness, and the sympathy with the right and the scorn of the
wrong, and the helpfulness in good causes, that gave him the
power over us and led us to rely on him and overburden him
with our problems. His religious convictions were deep and
ever coloured his view of life and gave spring to his actions, but
they were mingled with the greatest spirit of toleration and
respect and regard for the beliefs of others. Indeed, he was
firm in all his convictions; slow to come to a decision until
he had heard all sides of a problem presented, he was fixed in
his stand, no matter what the consequences; and yet he showed
a sweet reasonableness for the position of those who could
not agree with him. He never wished to dominate. So we
all worked together harmoniously with him.

Thus endowed, he came to the Board of Governors in 1905.
Mr. John F. Stairs, Chairman of the Board, had recently died
and his loss had brought activity to a low ebb. Mr. Campbell
threw himself heartily into the problems of the university and
aroused such confidence among his colleagues by his energy
and vision that, although a junior member as far as years of
service went, he was elected their Chairman in 1908. Then
began the planning and the visioning of the future which we live

in today. Dalhousie was then the Forrest Building, as we call
it—there was nothing else—, on a scrap of land bounded by
Carleton, Morris, Robie and College Streets. A new Dalhousie
was conceived, with elbow room, with many buildings, with
space for athletics grounds and gymnasiums and residences,
with courts and walks, with trees and shrubs and flowers.
Steadily, if slowly, he brought his colleagues and those intimately associated with the university to see that if he had a
vision he was not a visionary, and that his dreams were practicable. Many were the suggestions for a new site. the City
Home grounds, Gorsebrook, the golf ‘links property; when
suddenly in 1911, the present Studley estate was on the market,
and Mr. Campbell saw that fortune was on the university's
side, and this beautiful estate was purchased, although where
the money was to come from he did not know. The effect was
almost electrical; enthusiasm and faith were stimulated, and —
the Dalhousie heather was on fire. There followed the Campaign of 1912 for $400,000. A fabulous sum, said the unbelieving old supporters; But even they caught the fever, and
the impossible was accomplished. The rest is but a tale of
yesterday. One after another the solid business men of Halifax were proud to join Mr. Campbell on the Board and work
unceasingly under his energetic and unselfish leadership for
the good and the glory of Dalhousie. The Campaign of 1920
was for $1,000,000, and another impossible goal was reached—
and passed. It became $2,000,000.

Is it any wonder that we at Dalhousie stand appalled by
our loss, and stand ready to pay to him a tribute of admiration
and gratitude that cannot be too full?

But that is far from all. He not only dreamed and led and
built, he not only gave generously of his means; he taught others
to do likewise. He was the friend of all that owned the name
Dalhousie. No member of the staff but found in him a man
interested in his troubles, in his needs, and in his views. No
student matter or activity that did not have its appeal to him
listened to and heard. His hospitality was unbounded. Many
a student will recall the afternoon hour he spent at that home,
leaving with the gracious benediction of the knowledge that earth
was not all drab and hollow, but that there were spirits, father,
mother and daughter, who dispensed joy and light and made
evident the beauty of life.

He has died as he has lived, in victory and in beauty of
spirit. There is no cause for permanent sorrow. His life has
been rounded out and the pointer has come back full circle.

Dalhousians can only show their full appreciation of his
worthiness, and of his goodness to them and their cause, by
taking up the thread where he dropped it, and weaving it
without break into the web of the yet more glorious Dalhousie

that is to be.
Ly Kans

 

November 23, 1927.

 

Postponed

—_—

Numerous student activities which were scheduled to take
place during the week were postponed as a mark of respect
to the memory of the late G. S. Campbell. These activities
will be carried out despite the postponement. i 0

_. The Glee Club show, which was scheduled for last Monday
night will take place in the Gymnasium on Monday, November 28. The Newman Club dance which was supposed to
be held on Wednesday night will be put on this evening.

The meeting of the Council of Students, postponed from
Thursday will be held this evening. Sodales has postponed

the debate scheduled for last Wednesday evenino :
Christmas. sday evening until after

 

ao A fi

 

 
a permanent wave.

1

_ Limited

The
Chronicle
| AND

1) en
|| Balifax

) | Halifax

Daily Star
The

fastest growing
newspapers in
Nova Scotia

Toys Of All Kinds

Students desiring to send

Toys out of town will
find good variety reasonably priced and we will
prepare parcels for shipment

Frank Colweil Ltd.

New Address

417 Barrington Street
Opp. Church of England Institute

Pane THE HOME OF
Cut FlowersX Potted Plants

_§ We make up Funeral Designs,

if also Wedding Bouquets. We also
do Table Decorating. We are the

_ only members of the T. F.
tats.

> all parts of the world.

The Rosery

' 8 BLOWERS ST.

5

Phone Sac. 3321-3322.
Night Phone Sac. 1934

To readers of
| The Dalhousie Gazette

we recommend

THE REXALL
DRUG STORE

| For everything in
| Drug Store Needs

499 Barrington Street
Phone Sack. 61

—_

| Globe Laundry Ltd. |

50 Buckingham Street»

G. W. SPRAGUE, Vice-Pres. |

C. W. SPRAGUE, Pres:

As Usual

The best in Ice Creams, Con
fectionery and Meals, as well!

as courtesy, efficent service and

attractive surroundings are to
be had at

: 7 4 ’ oF se ; ;
5 . ss :
ff The Green Lantern
; — ae . * nih * ‘ :

' ~.< ‘
Ai. = By

eae ot
Phone S. 3830 for appointment. |

_ | THE WOOD BROS CO., |


ee

and upon the deathin-1908 of the

fag Be
- 7
rs oO

‘ £ Fr
lap ae “y
yi i
1 i” ’ .
os ¥ '
J 4

ee i >
ie _—. r a
Lae i 1 '
GAL P
es mf * po re

; 5 ire } n
) n Special Se
if ey oS @

Ne is of the sudden death of George. S. Campbell_h

*

and regret. _ |

Mr. Campbell. became.a member of the Board in 1905”

=?

held. Throughout this whole period he todk'a deep and abiding — i

and ever growing interest in the work of the ‘University in
all its activities*and to his influence and energetic direction »

may be attributed in very large measure its rapid and con
tinuous development and its increasing’ importance in the field .

of higher education in Canada. on

Upon the tragic death of his only son in the early days of

the Great War he marked. that grievous event by the endow- —

ment of valuable scholarships and they have proved a great
stimulus to many of the youth of-the’land who have enjoyed
their advantages.

Moveover, throughout all these years Mr. Campbell took —

the lead, not only in liberal contributions of his means to the
cause which lay so near his heart, but also in energetic personal
services. He could always be relied upon to devote a large
share of his valuable time to advance the cause in every useful
direction. . .

Not content with this leadership in these matters of direct
relationship to the affairs of the University, he was also ever

‘ mindful of the social welfare of the members of the academic

D. Flor- i 1) *

We can wire Flowers to: |

SWEATERS—

s =
» Wwe -<

; | we Ve ,
4 ?- ye he fi ae be * s4 we
‘ } - ee SY,

staff and of the student body. For them his hospitable home
was a social centre, rendered additionally attractive by the
constant efforts of his gracious wife’ and daughter—both also
firm friends of the University.

While Mr. Campbell has always been a‘ most useful and
public spirited citizen, interested in/all matters pertaining to the
advancement of the City and ;Province, ‘his associates in the
work of Dalhousie Universitv feel that his unselfish and in
invaluable labours in the cause of higher education are among »

all his activities deserving of special emphasis and recognition.

In recognition of these labours in the cause of higher
education’ the University on the occasion of its centenary
Convocation in 1919 conferred ‘upon Mr: Campbell the Honorary Degree of Doctor of Laws.

Be it therefore RESOLVED by the Board of Governors now
in special session—That the Secretary of the Board be directed
to spread this minute upon the records of the University—
That a copy be transmitted to the widow and daughter of the
deceased with an expression of deep sympathy in their irreparable loss, and that copies be also transmitted to the public
press.

TRIBUTE OF SENATE
(Continued from page 1)

t

Y ay oe BS ue hey wat Net (wit Set as hs Rea ot nah 2 wa rows ele y wi v's
enterprises, and’ a host of philanthrepies, all made many and

heavy claims upon him, and ‘all,of,them received from him
their full measure of careful consideration. Among all of his
multitudinous interests; however, there can be little room to
doubt that the University was the one which occupied the foremost place in his affections.. He seemed to be constantly
thinking of it and always devising plans for its advancement
and improvement.

It was in 1905 that he became a member of the Board of
Governors. At once with that energy which characterized
him «in everything he undertook, he threw himself into the
problems and the tasks which confronted the Board, and with
such!success that in recognition of the value of his work, and
of his preeminent qualifications for such a position, he was
very:soon chosen to fill.the arduous and very responsible position of Chairman of the Board. Thus for a period of more
than.a score of years the University has had the inestimable
good- fortune of enjoying the benefits arising from his sane
judgment, his indomitably optimistic spirit, his untiring energy,
and his magnificent generosity. Ri

Today our city is mourning the loss of her foremost citizen,
and our University is mourning the loss of her greatest friend
and champion. ‘Today all of us are mourning the loss of one who
had ‘earned the admiration and the love of all who knew him.

His work among us is over, his presence among us will be
sorely missed; but the results of his labours in many directions,
and, in particular, the marvellous growth and development,
under his fostering care and guidance, of the University that
he loved so well, will remain as a splendid and imperishable
monument to his memory.

Dalhousie University,
November 23, 1927.

A new shipment of jumbo knit sweaters in
Dalhousie Colors just arrived., Get yours now.

SKATES and BOOTS—

Our new fall stocks of Hockey Boots and Skates
are now opened up for your inspection.

hs

a

 —MUALTAE LETT

—_

we

7

454 BARRINGTON ST., _ HALIFAX, N. S

eg
J : onto a hy

heen Py
is "4

ie at , i ' ’
Sie EI NE io 8% 0. is rte
7 aeel Craae tT ree AF, on ‘e i
PRC ALY vu te fan. sf Maa Gaels oily > un oa
FeO ET TAL oy Cie hee ie ee dent sg [es
i ae oy es “gy ie eT | & i ot cA nee +}
oe a

4a

| ¢

os , bat y yt =;

vs nig) 2p eu lat ‘a Le
ee ia

7 ———

7
§ a oy * ‘ Fg 1 oe a‘
a 4 oT .* - a me +e _ iA: 2 e
% ¥ . rr Ar wT, treeay ns
ne tie STUD
. ; . ba }
a : oe a eas ve ' =’ ‘a
iF ‘ Le '
rz. ps ’ ee tee a! }
: PA

“AF late Thomas Ritchie succeeded _
him in the office ofChairman, an office he has since continuously _

____| enjoyed a lecture by Mr. Murray See
ff] been received ‘by his wide circle of friends, business associates _

| and the community at large with feelings of the deepest sorrow |s
i Cd eae aes sags aes
__ * His colleagues on the Board of ‘Governors of Dalhousie #
University, of which he has for so many years been the devoted —
Chairman, desire .especially to give expression of their sense —
of the irretreivable loss the University has suffered in his passing. —

On Thursday at noon, in the Chemistry Theatre, an interested audience
general secretary for the 5S. .C.
This was one of the most brilliant and
interesting talks ever delivered to the
S. C. A. and the students were enthusjJastic in their appreciation. Mr. Brooks
spoke on the general conditions in India
and the years which he spent there
enabled him to give a pros: and
sympathetic description. a striking
example of the relations existing between the English and the native Indians.
Mr. Brooks outlined the life of Gandhi,
one of the most remarkable leaders
India has ever had. Educated
England and a graduate of Cambridge
Gandhi gave up his immense possessions
to serve the cause of his down-trodden
people. First, during the South African
and later during the World War Gandhi
served Great Britain and rendered
truly conspicuous service. Imprisoned
for ‘‘so-called” revolt against the government he has since been unconditionally
released, such was the regard of British
magistrates for him. Mr. Brooks revealed aspect of India totally unknown
to most students and presented his
subject in such a way that they felt as
though they as well as Mr. Brooks had
been eye witnesses of the scenes he
described. The S. C. A. is to be congratulated for giving the students an
opportunity to hear such a speaker as
Mr. Brooks.

—————————

UNICORN SOCIETY HOLDS
MEETING

The Unicorn held its first meeting,
last Friday evening, at the home of
Dr. MacMechan, Victoria Road. Kenneth S. Smith was appointed President,
and Forrest Musgrave, Vice-president.

It was decided that, in future, the
official meeting-place of the club will
be the Prince of Wales Room, at Nelson
Hall. With competent officers and a
good membership, the club expects
to have a successful year.
_ Major J. W. Logan
interesting address on Joseph
Dr. MacMechan then read a paper on
Howe.
ed.

The club greatly appreciate Dr.
MacMechan’s hospitality and hope
that the coming meetings will be as
interesting. The date of the next
meeting will be announced in the Gazelle and any men interested in Literature
are cordially invited.

gave a very

HUSSEY DOES WELL.

The showing made by John Hussey
at the Dartmouth Track Meet last week
was gratifying to the Track and Field
fans. Hyssey ran his first indoor race
in fine style and showed his heels to
such notables as Carl Beaver and Alf
Rogers in the mile run. Other Dal
entrants did not do so well, but all
deserve credit and Manager Leigh Miller
may well be proud of the impetus he
has given to the track game in Dalhousie. Coach. Sterling also deserves
credit for the work he is doing. He has
his hands full most of the time but

never refuses to call for help or advice} |

from the students.

BASKETBALL SCHEDULE

Clyde Sperry has released the following Basketball schedule;

Sat. Nov. 26th.
2:30—-Engineers vs Freshmen
3:20— Commerce vs Law
4.10—Medicine vs Dentistry
5:00—Arts vs Theology
Dec. 3rd:
2:30—-winner of (1) vs winner of
3:20—winner of (2) vs winner of (3) (6)
Dec. 10th:

3 p.m.—winner (5) vs winner of (6)

*x* *

Bl C. Hunt in Business Correspondence:

“The department of English needn't
be ashamed of anything I have here.”

IFYou WANT To See Wet

SEE WALLACE

OPTOWETRIST AND OPTICIAN
Y.M, Cc. A. BLDG. HALIFAX, N.S

Christmas Cards

Why send your money out of

town for Christmas Greeting

cards when you can __ select

from the finest assortment in

the City —atthe ROSS PRINT
SHOW ROOM.

Allcards printed right on our prem-~
ises. Prompt and efficient Service.

We give away Bridge Score Cards.

The RossPrint Ltd

Argyle St. Tel. S. 1958

Christmas Cards

any beautiful artistic designs

Ask for Catalogue Christmas Books

T. C. Allen & Co.

| 124-126 Granville Street

in |

Howe. | |

An interesting discussion follow- | |

the unexpected gue
home to dinner and t
| wife gives you the icy glare
“you Ca "< ways say to

yourself, Well vd

-what if you do rine |
he

That Well
Groomed Appearance!

Have your hair cut every 10 days
by one of LEE’S expert barbers
and maintain a neat appearance.

LEE’S

Basement Barber Shop
48 Sackville St., Halifax, N.S.

WE FEATURE!
FOOTBALL
FASHIONS

Coats-Dresses-Hats
J ENSEN & MILLS

O., LIMITED
Spring Garden Road

NOVA SCOTIA
NURSERY

1088 to 1090 Barrington St.

—THREE PHONES-——
Cut

Flowers, Bouquets and all
Floral Work.

HEADQUARTERS

FOR EVERYTHING
IN

SPORTING GOODS
AT POPULAR PRICES

MacDonald HardwareCo
SPRING GARDEN RD.

——_

 

PROGRAMMES
and other JOB PRINTING

receive our special attention

The ROYAL PRINT & LITHO Ltd.

ME RENT SBN ED,
NOTICE!

Special Students’ Discount

CONDONS

Men’s Store

WINNERS From the

For 60 years the REACH Trade
Mark on Sporting Goods has been
a mark of perfection. No matter
what your favorite sport may be, we
can supply you with equipment that
will help you play the game with
the best that's in you.

|CRAGG BROS. CO. LTD.

Hardware and Sporting Goods
HALIFAX, N. S.

NEW !
‘‘TheBook of Ultima Thule”’
BY

ARCHIBALD MacMECHAN
PRAISE OF NOVA SCOTIA

SAVE THE
POKER HANDS

FARQUHAR BROS, LTD. }

Barrington Street

Xmas Cards

Come in and pick them out now

We will hold’ your selection and

keep them fresh until -you need
them ;

Correspondence Cards

Wonderful Values at attractive
price

Freeman’s Pharmacy

COR. COBURG and HENRY

| root WKAR |

- Swanky Oxfords

Styled for Young Men,
correct in style—and easy
on Financés. A shoe you'll
be proud to wear. Spt

———_——

New Shoes for the

College Girl

Shoes for street and all
sport wear and also
slippers appropriate for

the coming evening, events.

we

Wallace Bros

427

BUTTONS ON
RENTS MENDED
HOLES DARNED

That’s the service you get
free when you send YOUR
Laundry to Ungar’s.

VALETERIA

A new pressing Service:
Your Suit or Overcoat
Steam Cleaned and Pressed, for 75c or 4 Tickets
for $2.00.

NECKTIES cleaned 10c.

UNGAR’S

Halifax, N. S.
Har. 127

DYEING
VALETERIA

Barrington St.,
Sack 428

LAUNDERING
CLEANING

Tuxedo’s

A visit to our Salesrooms will
convince you of the outstanding values we have to offer
you, at the lowest prices in the
city. ie

Our Tuxedos now priced at

7:
Dress Vests $6.50 & $7.50

Robinson’s Clothes Ltd.

444 Barrington St.
Opp. Roy Building “Walk Up Stairs and Save Ten"

 
 
 
  
   
  
    
  
 
    
      
      
   
   

LLIANT PLAYS IN GAME LAST SATURDAY—
‘EAMS SCORE IN LAST MOMENTS OF GAME

ie iF

eld in the City this year} Hunter, Edwards and Lane
slaw “he Tie to a aoe well for the Red Shirts and
ast Saturday and the| helped keep Dal from scoring by their

remains = un- edy tackling and long punting.
ing with their backs to} The game drew a large crowd and the
ch line for the greater] Dal bleachers were packed long before
ne the Red Shirts unloosed| the game got underway.
ricious attack in the closing} tussle on the program the Wanderer's
; of play and scored the| Intermediates scored a 9—0 win over

> game W Kings. Bernie Currie refeered the Sen
  
  
 

   

a Pickdon and ies ion game. The teams lined up as
- the line. Up to then the | follows: ‘
BAA oul tie| | Palisctisto -—, Fidibacks! McLeod:

Halves: Tupper, Wickwire, Langstroth;
Three Quarters: McDonald, A. Sutherland, McRae, Hewat. Forwards: McLean, Townshend, Campbell, Dunlop,
Irving, A. Smith, F. Smith.

‘try of the Wanderers was
‘toughest break the Gold and

could have received. It is to
their credit that they never lost heart and
Jaunched an even more determined
a < on their opponents and pulled
ame and the championship out of
just one short minute before the

y aan

| whistle sounded. \
3 viet ball started off at a fast clip
‘the Dal fans seemed to realize that
were in for a good game for they
ayed a willingness to shout that
wised even the cheer leaders. The
_ Tigers pressed strongly and the Red
, oie oe forced to scrum on their

- fiv,

Halves: Dobson, Hunter, Thompson;
Three Quarters: Piers, Fordham, Mc
Innes, Lane; Forwards: Young, Hogan,
Schwartz, Grant, Armitage, Ovner,
Colwell.

Final Session
Of Moot Court

  
  
  
 
 
  
  

  
    
    
   
  
   
  
 

Uae

y
, J
cu

 

es
be i Pf

  
  
 
   
   

 

five yard line repeatedly. Art Sutherplunged -histl t : gee ee eae ee Albert Walsh and Alban Farmer are

x 5 1 :. i
r ‘gic the hail of delight which had
-_ gtarted to sweep the Dal bleacher.
Fast work by the Wanderers full back
‘, slieved the situation for the Reds,
but not for long, the Tigers bore down
upon them relentlessly and again the
scrum on the Red’s five yard line. At

ms this stage of the game the Tigers were
modvded a free kick and Bill Wickwire

tried a place kick. His effort failed
although the ball fell into the hands of

' . e D

the winners in the Smith Shield Competition held in the Moot Court Room
on Friday evening Nov. 18, before Mr.
Justice Carroll, Mr. Justice Jenks and
Mr. Robertson, acting as judges.

The four men competing were Alban
Farmer and Gerald Godsoe on the one
side and Albert Walsh and William
Outhit on the other. These men were
chosen by a committee of Senior Law
Students last year to compete for this
shield which was donated to the university by Prof. Sydney Smith, LL. B.,
Dalhousie 1920; Harvard 1921; and from
1921—1425 a member of Dalhousie
Law Faculty. All second year law stud
     
 
  
   
    
  
   

oe the Dal forwards and play remained
_———, in the Wanderers’ territory.

aie? | _ Bevil Piers turned in a nice run and
7 kick for the Reds and play shifted up to
the Dal twenty-five yard line. It was
not long however before the ee had

a é
Fae ies!
a fe ae

ee oe TY
> & -_

  
  
    

 
  

sas , ans own the field again} ents are eligible; their propensities as
r i a Moa teiverds stad ee to track Senior Counsel in the Moot Court being
Uae | for safety. From then on to the end|the criterion which guides the comaay of the first half the Tigers pressed in-| mittee. | ’
Ps a _cessantly and the Red's three quarter It is interesting to note that the very
_——s line relieved occasionally with snappy| strong bench of judges which sat on
*s yf runs down the field. Tupper was out Friday night are all Dalhousie graduates.

The competitors themselves are well
known to the students.

Albert Walsh has made a name for
himself as a very clever cross-examiner
in the Moot Court. Albert knows his
law and is always willing to help out
with his explanations. It is not an
uncommon sight to see two or three
questioners standing around him. His
name will be inscribed on the shield.

Alban Farmer also of Moot Court
Fame did himself proud on Friday
night by the able handling of his case.
Alban created a very favorable impression. The justices delivered judgment
in favour of his client and that speaks
well for him.

William Outhit, one of the Justices
of the Dalhousie Moot Court in his
quiet manner spoke very convincingly
before the Bench.

_—s for a few minutes but gamely resumed
splay. The half ended without any
score having been made.

c ~ Several long punts to touch, featured

the opening minutes of the second half.
cy, Phe t “ean launched another attack on

the Reds and were soon in a good position
to score but try as they might they

_ couldn’t carry the leather over the line.

Hewat and Langstroth both made

__-valiant efforts to score but were stopped
by hard tackles. Edwards was having

his hands full eas knocked out ie

a few minutes when he tried to grab a

Pt a dal from under the feet of two

charging Tigers. The game resumed

and several free kicks were awarded
both sides with no telling result. Al
tutta, hough the Dal fifteen were well up in
ie Weaticers tecrtary for Gewaerhs of
twenty minutes they were unable to

  
 
   
     
  

 

&
l

  
  

  
  

 

 
    
   
 
   
  
  

 

 

aoa Te Gg ie

 
  
    

    
  
   
 
   

     

 

    

   
 

.- det over. McGinn t hand| Gerald Godsoe who figured prominee ‘ Fah hi Pisin ter ce lrghimclony pew ently in many of the Criminal Cases in

the Moot Court argued very knowingly.

The Justices delivered a verbal judgment and complimented the four men
on their argumentative powers as well
as for their knowledge of the law.
All four men certainly did well in so
ably and promptly answering the nice
legal questions put to them by the
Justices.

The members of the Law School wish
to thank Mr. Justice Carroll, Mr.
Justice Jenks and Mr. Robertson for
their attention and interest.

 

into touch. In Dal’s domains for the
first time that period, the Reds battled
desperately and were suddenly rewarded.
Their three quarter line was functioning
prettily and the ball was soon on the
ee Bal twenty-five yard line. A scrum
_-— at this point nearly spelt defeat for the
‘Tigers. Johnnie Dobson, the nemesis
of the Dal picking quarter all year,
robbed the ball from Wickwire as it
re fro the scrum and was away
ina . He was nailed but he had
passed to Lane who had just enough
speed to carry him over the line in the
far corner. The try went unconverted.
Somewhat dazed by the unexpectedness of it all the Dal supporters were
silenced, but not for long. The same
fighting spirit that carried the team
back to the Wanderers territory seemed

_ to take hold of their supporters and
they never ceased urging their men to
score. They were rewarded just when

_ they were about to give up hope. With
_-—*_— @ minute to go the Dal forwards heeled
ss the:~ball out of the scrum beautifully
; and the Dal three quarter line was away.

    
 
 
  
    
    
  
   

Owing to lack of space, much material
is crowded out of this issue, including
several letters. These will be published
as soon as possible.—Fditer.

a

There will be a meeting of Class ‘28
to elect the valedectorian, class prophet,
historian and critique, in Room 3, at
12 o'clock on Thursday, Dec. Ist.

hla td penned setae

Prof. Eng. 2.; Now I know chloroform
is being made. I thought I smelt it

 

____- That run across the field was the crown-| hut I can certainly sce the effects.
kta’, ing feature of the game. Every man
0 got the ball drew a tackle and passed ;

just in time. Finally George Langs_ troth received the oval and tore across

s the line with the saving try. Truly

“WHAT EVERY GIRL SHOULD
KNOW”
At the Orpheus Next Week

ha _ bedlam broke loose in the Dal stahd : —_—_—
he __ The Dal rooters were wild with delight] Every kid on the glayground loved
5 i Mamie Sullivan. A whiz at baseball or

—s ands it was some minutes before the
soar died down.
Ab Smith failed to convert from a
difficult angle and the final whistle
ended the game shortly after.
_—-—_-—C<George Langstroth, Hewat, McLeod,
McDonald and McRae stood out for
sch _ Dal but they didn’t have much on the
_-———sFest of the team for the simple reason
Lege the whole team gave all they had and

my al
y r

hockeyor duckon therock. Allthe games
that most janes shied at she just et up.
And no big boys need try to get fresh
with kids ‘cause they was littler. Mame
would swat 'em ‘fore they knew what
happened. Every kid missed Mamie
when her great sorrow came and the
home was broken up, and a grim man
in blue knocking at the Sullivan's door.
Brother Dave taken away for what
wasn’t his fault. Mamie and little
Bob homeless. Then the orphanage.
Bob sick. Mamie in boy's clothes
fighting her way to him. Holding
him close. Mamie dragged away still
holding him. And then—See ‘What
Every Girl Should Know.” At the
Orpheus next week.

 

 

7 ¥ e
a sf

 

_ sd BIG DALHOUSIE NIGHT AT MAJ.
_ ee ow |. RSTIC DEC. 9h

Dy Gop Win Be Presented To Winner
7 > «OF Contest On That Date

All votes in the Popularity Contest
must be in by Wednesday Dec. 7th for

On that ever the cup will be presented
_ to the winner. This leaves only a
y ‘little

;

3
id

if

 

Eid
Li)
7:

-.
f ;

  

- . =
| 4
i.

  
 

   
  
     
   

    

 
 

“a tle time left—get behind | ) !
ee suse “a make him "the winner - an Seri
a. i =;f / feature a u Stor the be Be saat win the

 
 

    
   
    

>
My

SUPPLIES—SEE

ov”

   

from the

o

     
 
 

? Cut your cou

    

     
  
 

 
   
 

_ Gazette and vote now

7 bed) = eign a! 2 POSE Pewee eer es ene 17,650

ee) PPT a a ors 60 Hd: 44 0 58 1,700

Ay; z . eae, ah 0it.0.c4'aie 1,000 & co., LTD.

i A 2 . :, sees aoe 152 Granville Street
ape Cees hen Complete stock of Loose ‘Leaf
xe eeeer :

]| Books, Refills, Pencils Pens, etc.

  

    
 
   
   
    
   
   
   
   
  
  
  
   
   
      
  

E STILL DEADLOCKED

 

po the Wanderers off their feet. |

  
   

Wanderers — Fullback: Edwards,

 
   
 

     
   
  
  
   
  
   
    
  
  
   
   
    
  
  
  
   
    
  
  
 

DAL vs. WANDERERS
TOMORROW —
Once more an attempt will
be made to break ‘“‘the ties that
bind’”’ when Dal meets the
Wanderers tomorrow afternoon
at 3 o'clock on the Studley
campus. So far this year the
two teams have met three times
and each time the result was
atie. All Dal students should
be on hand to lend their team
moral support. They deserve
ev possible aid and it is up
to the students to attend and
cheer them on to victory.

 

 
   

     
   
    
   
   
   
  
  
  
  
   
      
  
    
  
   

 

 

 
 
 
  
   
    
   
  
 

   
   
   
  
 

A small but enthusiastic group of
members of the Dalhousie S. C. A. met
on Wednesday the sixteenth at Mrs.
Dennis’ hospitable home on Coburg
Rd. The party was honoured and
delighted with the presence of Mr.
Murray Brooks, National Secretary of
the S. C. A. for Canada. A few Dal
graduates including Avis Marshall and
Marge Mosher were there to renew acquaintance with Mr. Brooks, and it
was a jolly party. At first everybody
sat around and told jokes, the majority
of which favoured Prof. Stewart's
line of humour, and were told by a
well-known Scot of the clan of Fraser.
Several rounds were attempted but
something happened to the second
section in every instance and caused the
singers to abandon their attempts.
Nothing happened to Mr. Brooks
however, and his two solos Duna and
Nutium, were much appreciated. The
most of the evening was spent in thinking of proverbs and a large and motley
collection of them was rakedin. Everybody responded gamely aed the contest waged furiously. Ice cream and
cake were served and Mr. Brooks gave
a brief talk on the S. C. A., which was
intensely interesting, as all his talks are.

    
   
    
    
   
   
    
    
   
  
   
 
    
   
    
   
 

  
 

  
    
  
  

Mr. Murray Brooks, National Secretary of the S. C. A. was Miss Lowe’s
guest at lunch on Wed. at Shirreff Hall.
He spoke briefly to a small number
* residents in the drawing-room after
unch.

Sipe ana AA tees

SHOOT HELD BY DAL MEN

The Dalhousie Rifle Club shot their
match in the Inter-University Rifle
Competition at the Bedford Rifle
Range last Friday afternoon. The
competition is open to all Universities
of the Dominion of Canada for a

 

'Silver Trophy, known as the Dom. of

Canada Rifle Association Trophy to
be held for one year by the winners.
Col. H. Flowers acted as range officer
and represented the D. C. R. A.

Fourteen men competed in the
match from which a_ representative
pea of eight highest scorers was chosen.

e

Sullivan. The executive consisting of
the captain, E. J. Dunsworth and f. S.
Wilson.

The following are the scores of the
eight highest making up the team:

200 y. 500 y. 600 y. Total
fea 32 2 5

Andrew, J... ‘ 3 9

Wilson, S....... 26 32 30 88
a ee 29 30 29 88
SI Ls 0. sve ae 29 31 27 87
Dunsworth, E. J.25 31 30 86
Way FF. sas so a 31 25 30 86
Sullivan, P...... 30 26 28 84
Whelpley, C. F...26 30 27 83

The following finished in order but

not sufficiently high to be included in|}
Fas: |}

the team:—O. Cann, H. Beaton,
Beaton, H. L. Bell, A. A. Ferguson,
H. Giffin and H. Irwin.

Watch the Gazette for further notice

concerning Dal’s place in the Dominion
Competition.

 

CLASS
JEWELLERY

We enjoy the distinction of
making practically all Dalhousie
Class Sorell,

We appreciate the trust placed
in us by the Dalhousie students
and in turn always assure them
ot our very best service.

HENRY BIRKS & SONS
LIMITED
Diamond Merchants

HALIFAX

   
   
     
   
    
    
      
   
     
    
  

   
    
    
  
  
 

    
    
  
  
   
   
 

George F. Power
Cigars Cigarettes, Tobaccos
SMOKERS’ REQUISITES

of every Description.
—Also—
Cards, Souvenirs of Halifax

Majestic Bldg.
HALIFAX ee

     
   
 
 

  
 
  

  
 
   

   
 

YELLOW CAB

LIMITED

SAC. 4444

Halifax’s Only Metered
Service
Same Rates 24 Hours.

Two travel for same as one.
More than two, 2U cents extra.

 
 
      
    
   
   
 

          
   
   
     
  
    
   
   
 

 
  
    
  
  
  
 

 
     

MEDICALS —

S. C. A. Entertained

National Secretary Guest of Honor

Club was captained by Paul}

   
  

CHAMPIONSHIP

 

After defeating the Engineers 13—0

the Meds won the Interfaculty cham
mship by handing the league leading
awyers a 6—O defeat last Monday
afternoon. The game was fairly even
at times although the winners had
enough of an edge to earn their victory.
For about ten minutes in the opening
half the Doctors had it all their own
way and it was not long before Maxwell
went over for their first try, Anderson
narrowly missed converting. After that
the Lawyers bucked up a bit and forced
the play but were unable to register any
points and the first half ended three to
nothing against them.
_The second half was a thrilling affair,
with the Meds having a slight edge
throughout. ‘‘Mugs” Fraser intercepted 2 Law pass and looked good for a
sensational fifty yard run but McKenna
nailed him just in time. Shortly after
Art Murphy broke away and nearly
succeeded in getting another for Medicine. The Lawyers then staged a
rally which carried them up the field for
a short visit to the Doctor's territory.
Jerry Redmond started on a_swilt
journey toward the Med line but was
sandwiched and failed to better his
team's chances. Cheeseman was amusing himself by indulging in some kicking
for the benefit? of the Meds. The
Doctors attacked again and the three
quarter line broke away and Anderson

carried the leather over for their second | .

try. Anderson failed to convert. At
this stage of the game the players became
quite excited and some of the more
playful insisted in using their fists to
the.c opponents discomforture. Aubrey
Tupper who handled the whistle in
fine style kept them under control
however and the game proceeded.
Meds pressed again and except for a
few runs the Lawyers were bottled up
in their own end of the field for the
remainder of the game. One of the
most interesting features of the game
was the battle between the two linesmen, a checkup revealed that both had
stolen an equal amount of ground.
The teams lined up as follows:

Medicine — Full-back: A. Richardson; three quarters: Anderson, Douglas, | |

Murphy, Fraser; halves: Cheeseman,

Giddings, Maxwell; forwards: Grant, |}

McMillan, Mattheson, McLeod, Johnson, Marshall, Calver.

Law — Full-back: McKenna, three
quarters: Doyle, Godsoe, Couvert, Redmond; halves: Puddester, Sperry, Outhit; forwards: Ross Turnbull, McNauht. Kelloway, Phillips, McQuarrie,

owell:;.

       

| MACLEOD, BALCOM,

—DRUGGISTS—
5 STORES

34 Morris St. 174 Spr. Garden Rd.
103 Young St. 139 Agricola St.
Cor. Quinpool Rd. and Oxford St.

! HALIFAX, N.S.

    
   
     

  

    

  

All Dalhousie Students

especially the Book Lovers
are cordially invitedto make

THE BOOK ROOM

141 Granville Street
their Headquarters

      
     
      

 

Come in and browse and
make yourself at home.

E. VICKERY, Manager.

 

The Greatest Asset of a business is to give customers
what they want—when they
want tt.

J08 AND SOCIETY PRINTING

always delivered when
promised at the

Nova Print Limited

227-229 Hollis Street
One Block North of Post Office

PIANOS, VICTROLAS,

Small Musical Instruments and Victor Records

We invite you to join our

FICTION LENDING LIBRARY

2 cents per day

McDonald Music Co.

393Barrington St. Halifax

Dalhousie and Commerce
Society Crested Mote
Paper & Envelopes

   
  
   
   
   

Sheriff Ball Wand-tinted
framed pictures,—and €hristmas Cards

 

FARRELL’S

391 Barrington St.
Order pour Christmas Greetings now

 
 

WIN Pissnpacslogints

   
     
 
 

   
    
     
   
 
  
    
    

 

November 25th, 1927

 

CASINO NOTES

Starting on Monday, Novemiber 28th,
the Casino will change from its present
policy to that of presenting three changes
of program a week. For Monday and
Tuesday they are offeringa smart
comedy starring Lora LaPlante, entitled “Silk Stockings,” following that
on Wednesday and Thursday with
‘The Life of Riley,’ starring Charlie
Murray with George Sidney. This
Thursday, Friday and Saturday Fred
Thomson is being featured in “‘Jessee
James,” the film version of the life of
one of the most amazing characters in
history.

THIS THUR, FRI. & SATURDAY
FRED THOMSON
IN
James”’
NEXT WEEK
MON. & TUE.
LAURA LA PLANTE
IN
“Silk Stockings”

WED. & THUR.
CHARLIE MURRAY
IN
‘**The Life of Riley”
WITH
George Sidney

Have Debate

A departure from the ordinary routine
of the third year pharmacology class
was introduced on Friday, Nov. 18, in
the form of a debate, the subject being
“Resolved that alcohol is a social evil,”
two members of the class supporting the
affirmative and two the negative.
Eddie Murray opened the debate for
the affirmative. He confined his remarks mainly to scientific facts derived
from the works of various investigators
on the subject.

Then Miller opened the debate for the
negative. He pictured the tired business man, weighed down by cares, who
on coming home washed away his troubes by a wee drop of alcoholic beverage.

le too gave scientific facts to support
his statements.

_ Bob Ross spoke very well in supporting the affirmative. He dealt with
crime and accidents as caused by alcohol.

John McCleave gave a very humorous
talk in supporting the negative. He
supplied a vast amount of data derived
from hospitals, jails, etc. to show that
alcohol was not an evil but a benefit.

The leading speakers were allowed
a few minutes rebuttal, after which
Dr. Gibbs summed up the debate in a
very complete manner in these words
‘Alcohol is dangerous for work, but
beneficial for play.”

The debate was both enjoyable and

   

     
      

**Jesse

   

 

 

    
     
     
       
 

instructive and much credit must be
given Dr. Gibbs in arranging this innovation in tutorial work.

 
 

     

PH

  

MON. TUE. WED.

Ruth Patsy Miller
IN

‘‘What Every. Girl

   

Our High Quality Standard
makes our Low Price

Doubiy Attractive
SUITS, OVERCOATS
FULL DRESS and
TUXEDO , at one

price

‘24

MADE-TO-MEASURE

Tip Top Tailors
THE STUDENTS' TAILORS
TRAMWAY BUILDING
Barrington and Sackville Sts

    

     
  

 

   

   

   

   

   

   

   

 
  

      

  
 

THUR. FRI. SAT.
‘*The Desired Woman”’
{

 
    

 
 

   

With Irene Rich
British Army Tale Laid in the Sa hara

 
   
   

 

tHE SONG SHOP cv.
for ANYTHING in
MUSIC
22 Spring Garden Rd.
Halifax, : : Canada

 
         
   
   

 

 
 

Offers
ENGINEERING COURSES

in
CIVIL, ELECTRICAL, MECHANICAL AND MINING
To Dalhousie Students with Engineering Diploma
MODERN EQUIPMENT

ef3 Instructing Staff with Industrial Experience
Tuition Fee $75.00 per year. Twenty-five scholarships of $75.00 each

Write or call for Calendar or advice.

F. H. SEXTON, Pres.

 
       
      
    
   
  
   
  

  
  

sees A A

COLWELL BROTHERS

Limited

 
  
 

453-457 Barrington Street

MEN’S HATS, CLOTHING, FURNISHINGS
AND LUGGAGE

HIGH CLASS GOODS AT MODERATE PRICES

    

   

 

  
 
 

 

WORLD NEWS

**All the news, All the time.”

PICTURES

Our camera man covers all
interesting events.

FEATURES

Always the most up-to-date and most interesting.

THE EVENING MAIL

CIRCULATION—There are more copies of The Evenings
Mail sold in Halifax and Dartmouth
than there are homes.

LOCAL NEWS

First with the local news.

EDITORIALS

Written by the best writers of our land.

    
 

DUMBELLS — NEX WEEK _ SeatsNow
CONTEST CLOSES Dec. 8th

All Votes Must Be In By That Date—Get Busy!

POPULAR COLLEGE ATHLETE CONTEST

$$ eee
In conjunction with the “THE COLLEGIANS” at the

MAJESTIC THEATRE
EVERY SECOND MONDAY

 

TTT SPOR Re Cee Re teem eweceee SRR ESSE COSCO SESS SORHE OEE REESSSSe Saceeeoemeeese
AO ee meee www eee eene

OSA BOODOSSOCSSSESECCEAS CEDASE ES ee R RN wONDdae BSbu Sse SASS ence snda
nen eens aeeemeene oe

GOOD FOR FIFTY VOTES (50)
When Presented at the Door of the Theatre at any performance.
ALL Male College Students Eligible. 3

CONTEST CLOSES DEC., 14th, 1927

 

ms :
i. tie

  
     
       
     
   
   
   
   
     
    
     
     
       
      
      
   
       
 
    
          
     
    
   
