 
  
   

- Pe een Td aot OE a ae ae ar ra -- “sane. ee a gage a re eee —— pa
AS ye gt aaa SRE A 3 Ear ee ee Oe ay te ~ iz e ~ oe ae eee ; oy
i ‘4 + ws ae, eee Ie af . . E a Mv iat - fat en ee , 7 ae rd Pay Ee Fad AP eG
as a an i a A nae ee, eon ki a a ; os ‘ » pr here ‘
gre * pte S A is i, Patan i. eo) ws d laa 24 iy hea nee in .. eae tnt Aaa r at ae
Nie ae as : Gey ae
» “ah, A
fe 2 ee
a

ass

NTS VOTE

ARTS SAY “YES”

  

  
  
 
     

 

——

PROFESSIONALS SAY “NO”

COUNCIL ELECTION CAUSES EXCITEMENT AS LARGEST
| BALLOT IN YEARS IS POLLED

 

 

. $10.00 Council fee was thrown out by a vote of 274 to 221; Miss Barnstead,
Miss McLaggan, Messrs. Bennet, Farmer, Goudge, Laurence, MacIntosh, Mac-Leod, MacCunn, Rankin, Stewart, and Dr. C. M. MacKenzie will make up the
new Council. These are the results of Tuesday's elections when a record of nearly

600 votes were cast.

  
  
  
   
  

AGAINST

MoT >

8

HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA, MARCH 9th, 1928

 
 

 

 
 

—Official Student Publication at Dalhousie University—

ee

$10_FEEo

 

SS eee

Students’ Council

’
Tr

PT
MARE |

   
  

See

—- — mF

(OUSIE WELCOMES A TRUE

THE OLDEST

COLLEGE PAPER
IN AMERICA

 

NO. 18

 

R. B. BENNETT
WITH US TO-NIGHT

 

DALHOUSIE’S MOST

DISTINGUISHED

SON TO

SPEAK AT FOUNDER’S DAY CELEBRATIONS HERE
THIS EVENING

 

Arrangements have been completed for the function to be held in celebration
of Munro Day and in honour of all benefactors of Dalhousie University. The
Hon. R. B. Bennett, leader of the Opposition in the Dominion Parliament, wil]

be the principal speaker.
Maritime Express on Friday afternoon.

Bs sk elcome

We of the student body are proud
of this occasion and appreciate the
opportunity of welcoming a man
whom we think of as one of Dal
It is expected that he will arrive

*
"

in Halifax by the

The celebration will take the form of
a convocation of the entire University
and will be held in the University gymnasium at Studley on Friday evening.
The formal part of the programme will
be preceded by college songs led by the
Dalhousie Symphony Orchestra under
the direction of Mr. S. Singer and the
Choral Society which has been trained
by Mr. Harry Dean, University lec
Psa ARTS AND SCIENCE aaa a ee een ee een : :
we : : D d’ housie’s most distinguished sons. turer in music and the head of the Halae Class ’31—One to be elected ean edd § ifax Conservatory of Music. After
eal W. ] Although a graduate of many years of the academic party to the plata . 1. Miss Helen Williams—97 eicome standing Hon. R. B. Bennett comes form, the meeting will be opened by the
ah ye Mr. sj Tips H. Goudge (elected) mee RT to us of today not as a stranger, but newly elected president ol the Board
ai 3. Mr. Orton Hewat—111 — as one whom we all feel we know. of Governors, G. Fred Pearson, Esq.,
AF The Munro Day function on March Not so long ago we were the recip- |LL-B- There will be an overture by
heen Class ’30—One girl and one boy to} 9%h gives us an opportunity to extend ients of a message from Mr. Bennett |the Orchestra under Mr. Singer’s diroh aes be elected the welcome of the University to its in which kind references to his stud- ection followed by the singing of ‘‘Hail
reli guest of honour, the Hon. R. B. ent days under Dean Weldon and to Thee, Dalhousie’ led by the Choral
eae 1. Miss Lillian Barnstead (elected)| Bennett, a graduate in law of the the wealth of gratitude he felt he owed Society. After the formal opening by
¥ —169 class of 1893. In no part of the Dalhousie—struck a tender chord the chairman of the Board of Gover«9. Miss Margaret Jubien—154 University will receive a warmer in every one of us. It was, and is, nors, President Mackenzie will make
eae 3. Mr. Harvey Hebb—144 . welcome than in the Dalhousie Law inspiring to see one so far removed, |a statement with regard to the benhe a 4. Mr. Wesley Stewart (elected)—189| School. both by time and distance from the |etactions to the University in the past.
- present day Dalhousie maintain Mr. Justice Russell, Professor emeritus
“ Class ’29—One girl and one boy to In Mr: Bennett we welcome one such an active interest and display | of the University and one of Mr. Ben+ be elected who has achieved high distinction such a loyal enthusiasm in the college net’s teachers in the Dalhousie Law
of his youth. A man of many and School will present the speaker of the

in the administration of justice: He
was not only an acknowledged leader
tn the courts of this province, at Ottawa
and before the Judicial Committee
of the Privy Council, he has also
held the office of Mintster of Justice
and thus the official leadership of
the Canadian Bar.

    
   
 
  

1. Miss Marion Cameron—150

2. Miss Marjorie. McLaggan (elecala ted)—163 .

3. Mr. Allison Cumming—152 |
Mr. Raeburn McCunn tejectsd)

i

— o - Commerce Society—One to be electek ‘ ; : ed

 

We also welcome one who has achteved a place of leadership in the
Throu
 

 

 

 

 

varied interests and activities, he
finds time to serve as a member of
the Board of Governors and as a director of the Dalhousie Review. But
not only ts he interested in Dalhouste
in an advisory and executive capacity
—he has made generous benefactions
the University, remembering particularly the welfare of the students,
and in divers other ways-has shown
hhetl eistill holds Dalhousie as very

 

evening. After Mr. Bennett’s address,
Mr. J. Gerald Godsoe, B. A., President
of the Council of Students will deliver
a formal welcome from the student body
of the University.

Unfortunately the seating capacity
of the University gymnasium is limited
to about 1100 so that admission will
be by ticket only. It is expected that
there may be a few tickets available
and they may. be obtained from Dean

, 1. Mr. R.A. Laurence (elected)—216| public service of our country. ; t 1
te 2. Mr. P. A. Oyler—91 out, his career has been inspired by close in his affections. J. E. Read at the Forrest Building on
i ed a zeal for the welfare of his country, Friday, between 11 a.m. and 1 p.m.
¥ eles Engineering Society—One to be} and it can truly be regarded as a We welcome Hon. R. B. Bennett In order to enable the public generally
PS. . elected living witness of the Weldon tradition. | as a lawyer who has attained emin- to hear the Munro Day exercises,
z fa * ence in his profession, as a national arrangements are being made to broadcat 1. Mr. T. B. oe becky 987 bf eee all oy aer Mr. ae Hon. Richard Bedford Bennett, Leader of His Majesty's Loyal Oppos-| leader who has voted smal to |cast from C. H. N.S.
< 9. Mr. Walter Bennet (elected)— or his own sake, his visit gives the ition and a eraduate of De La eaters ; f public service and as a kind benefactor THE SPEAKE
bY a 3. Mr. Ken Ritchie—109 undergraduates of this period the ' a e, Ob el fy > today guest of honor anf friend. But above all do we re- HE SPEAKER
o opportunity to know the man. Gh SOMES Lay Celeoranon. ceive with warm hearts on this occas- Richard Bedford Bennett came to
Pee iy (= Freshman Representative—One to ion a “fellow student,” as he has ye Tea vise PON an,
| : Dalhousie in the autumn of 1890 enterbe elected , ee — { r { humbly described himself, who has ing the first year of the regular course
a ean of the Faculty of Law. Z w [ FT ph 13 v proven his worth, who has brought PAs ‘gees Ao pie eat :
> . 4 ; oe reading to the degree 3ac :
© 1. Mr. Murray Rankin clected)-257 Peete an yay ee ap CEDURE high honor fo his Atma Mater and |FSaye"® After “as Sususually heitian
2. Mr. Albert Smith—74 p sate who through all the years has ever | academic record in which he obtained
¥ Medicine Debate Monday It is a pleasure for me to extend an official welcome nee nme ne is pbscochened ideal | not less than ten first class and two
; c to Mr. Bennett. As a graduate of the Law School of the ANE IRE, LIOSOUSTE: UATE OTE second class distinctions out of a total
- rT . . . . " - . foo gS a & > ss ey,
Dr. C. M. MacKenzie (elected)—72 pie University, by his eminence at the Bar and his high place J. GERALD GODSOE, of ee ee oe ae
ie Leonard Farmer (elected) —46 The Great forensic feud between in the public life of the Dominion, he has shed lustre on his President, Council of Students. eee Ok aaah a ae tae es x
(e Dan MacDonald—41 iopaions and Pig ie eed sae Alma Mater. As a member of the Board of Governors he short time in New Brunswick be native
F Fred Jennings—-40 ie ny a gah 2a a ge a has given of his wise.counsel on matters of importance to the ; province, he went west and formed a
; Gordon Winfield—23 Dal Gymnasium will be the scene : : (voice: wl lo they get it?) The ‘tnershi rj re «OS
| of the great battle advancement of the best interests of the University. As a soar * Se | Sy we teens Pohecd ie the late Senator
: ¥ ; ; eam tahoe a= Ss realth 1s ruin! (Znd citizen:]| | rhee ‘aleary < fC
Law The resolution will be upheld by generous gwer of his means and his influence he is one of the Pb sete eet it. ) (great laughter) See ihe firm ae ee cee
a) Pct : 2 of Foes on) . ; 4 Stace : ne Ra ee aa ug
| eod (elected) —23 an he <a that a Be Shielies chief benefactors of Dalhousie. But above all he is one of Consider the fate of Rome. Excess of | the Dominion as Lougheed and Bennett.
aod a pea = Raed ee hence ‘Affairs ourselves, whom we are proud to honour and have among us petting, smoking, drinking of today Mr. Bennett rapidly rose to a position
| since 1927 has been to the Economic on account of his high personal character and his fine con- hon Aarne ene oa ies of pederUp raha : algary bar and it
t i alee ; Bee he hese epths. Excess is the predominent | was not long before he was a recognized
Dentistry pero oF iene or cies Pepe coe % mae feature of Modern pias pan ates leader throughout the province of his
re | on : 0 : —these things do affect us. And let]|adoption. In time his ability as counsel
George MacIntosh (elected)—22 Dal and Acadia trios this subiect me tell you of personal experiences: [| received equal recognition in Ottawa

will be rendered interesting, entertaining and enlightening.

It is interesting to note that the
rivalry between Acadia and Dal
has always been very keen and this

: ~ Byron Irwin—8 4
Murray Nicholson—1

: The professional faculties voted stronas. gly against the $10.00 fee. Their vote

 

 

 

 

wake up with a big head in the mornings (voice: youre boasting!) My
room-mate confesses. This life is bearing me down. And then I[ went to
Commerce House, where life is sweet.

and even in London as he began to
appear frequently both at the Dominion
and Imperial capital in appeal cases.
When Mr. Bennett undertook the
leadership of the Dominion Opposition

ant resulted in a majority of 100. _ |is sure to result in keenly contested . ars ? Pree ine ia get gee at <
i Arts and’ Science favoured the raise| argument as wit is matched against Nee pow fucing next speale Bt. ae “e et eee Patty hecwas
A Pee cetriy of 41 votes, The att aat as ttelvoct is feed by intellect ] ae eet roduc aig a cf unly sate ap Seale se one of the
pers ; ori . . . er: He Is not only an exponent but also] outstanding members of the Bar of the
eae Bey ial the shale collars. one ot ambition is goaded by am Dalhousie University, an example of Modern Civilization.| Dominion. He also took an active
ina ; : : atehale) |] . roice: Oh! Terrible). part in the Canadian Bar Associati
Kis a 9? The officers of the new Council are Halifax, .N. S., eas ety os ties Wide boon co ee gee eee
ieee yet to be filled. It is felt with the} Dal welcomes Acadia into our March 7, 1928. ‘ Morris ey. mee ee and for many years has been Vicefa Nefeat of Jennings and Winfield that | midst. ag it memengch a oe I vee si a, ee president for Alberta.
APs Pb ae : > : t opponent forgets that Sodaies Is not From the beginning, Mr. Bennett's
seer Medicine lost an opportunity for the] Laurence, Parker, Grant, Dal S d. l D P VY y Sh See oecn nae _ beg
kee pate of the founcll EAM has| supports you. Hear you Monday|WOdQICS ISCUSSES JAZZ, elting, amps, a place where frank confessions aré| career was inspired by zeal for public
A ad this honour for the last few years. | night. made. He would get a more material | service. He plunged into prairie politics
a a Pak ee iliod in oll robs, Boose or W hat Have Vy ou? benefit a sent it to arte Story ee and at an early stage was a member of
et 2 ~ =Cy : . azine! My ents logic is bad.| the legislature of the North West Terrae ability, from the professiona i UIT i : ao Rabat ; ————————— They fear we will have no legs. Then] itory. Later he entered the Dominion
Ms The voting went off smoothly wit Dalhousie an cadia meet in a pees Sip . . : <3 : ‘lke rns Aalce. Ws «li
"od the exception of some confusing re-| Intercollegiate Debating contest in the Modern civilization underwent a bad effect on physique. Silk hose and they say silk stockings make us run’ Parliament and attained prominence
rdin the voting on the Council Fee.| gymnasium Monday evening. Turn grilling cross-examination, withstood a|short skirts attract boys to look at down. Well if we have no legs there’ll| during the Canadian Northern debates.
Lrcing s : thorough X-Ray, defied the keen and | girls’ legs. (uproarious laughter). Every-| be no silk stockings to make us run] When Mr. Meighen formed his first

his confusion was caused by misin-| out and support the team.

terpretation of the reading on the
ballot.

   
 
 
   
  
    
     
    

 

Debaters Back From
Montreal

The boys have come back from Montreal and are gratified by the warm
reception extended them in Montreal
by McGill.

The debate took place before a very
small audience, who returned a vote
in favour of the McGill team.

After the debate Col. Bovey of McGill,
Thomas Humphrey, president of the
McGill Union and the Debaters were

—P. O. H.

Delta Gamma

The Delta Gamma Dance stamps the
final Best Yet to the numerous dances
held since October 1927. As it was the
-—— last dance of the year everybody set

out to have the greatest possible amount
Aa palepaieat The novel effect ex
 

 

  

        
    
 
 
   
  

 

Bade _ tended from the color scheme of mauve
_--— and silver, to the woven ceiling so
ast are that not even the person who] th |
_-—_ tried to peer through the slits could see entertained at the Military Club.
____ the rafters and the silver windmill that} The Gazette has had the pleasure of
-_ made the house for the Joe Mills Orch-| a careful perusal of the speeches ventures
In every way it was such a) the opinion that the Mc: rill team must
that there is a rumour abroad have been very powerful to overcome
not even Jim is back at the old; the arguments presented by our men
vo ae Ag Hebb and MacLeod.

searching minds of Dalhousie’s Master
Minds at Sodales last Thursday evening.
Modern Civilization was weighed in the
Balance and found Not Wanting.

Miss Josephine S. Dresner, vicepresident of Sodales in her opening
remarks introduced the four principal
speakers to the audience in her wellknown witty manner: Miss Elizabeth
Frame and Rand Mathieson upholding
/ the Affirmative and Helen Williams and
M.B.Mackinnon debating the Negative.
Elizabeth Frame Affirmative: How
many men have we left 6 feet tall with
manly expensive chests? what accounts
‘for a number of our students being at
the San? Modern Civilization!  Intoxicating Drinks! (laughter) Men smoking and women too! (greater laughter).
‘Consider the rush and whirl of things!
Classes, meetings, basketball, football.
Late hours; no sleeping in. Consider
the bad effect of modern magazines and
movies. ““(.ur children in the colleges
emulate the elopement and the hectic
llife depicted. Modern dress has had

 

body rides; nobody walks. The whale
had feet once but lost them through
disuse.

_ Helen Williams, Negative: immedlately on rising started an onslaught of
criticism: The previous speaker mentioned basketball, football, tennis and
other athletics as causing physical
deterioration—why it’s obvious that
these sports build up our constitutions.
The idea! Then how can my opponent
speak so disparagingly of car-driving?
(laughter). It means fresh air! Besides women’s clothing today is healthful. Short dresses are better than folds
and folds and folds. Short hair! How
enviable the older ages must be, with
their rats and headaches! (Audience
completely in accord). Girls swim—clean
healthy, bright! They are not frail!
Women have more freedom in activities
and consequently development.

Rand Mathieson: Driving in cars
will not give long life and health: They
do not go for fresh air. Today (swellin
out) the hospitals and asylums are full

down. (laughter) Ladies and Gentlemen, our stand is in defence of you
people tonight. We must have equally
developed body and mind. I think
we have improved. Span of life is
now longer. In the evolution of our
mind you have the evolution of the
body. Your attitude depends on whether you are a Atheist, Fundamentalist
or Christian Scientist.

Miss Dresner then asked for ‘‘speeches
from the floor."’ (Great laughter).

Duncan MacLellan: | am one of
those fools who came to scoff and remain
to praise. The speeches. tonight have
been excellent. The liquor question is
a serious one. I have been on a few
parties myself. I find that the number
of glasses does not matter; it’s the size

(Continued on P ge 2.)

 

the law library and by developing the
Bennett collection of works on Legal
History and Jurisprudence, he has made
it possible to carry on the work of the
new Honours Course in the Law School.

  

cabinet, Mr. Bennett was the obvious
choice for Minister of Justice. When
Mr. Meighen formed his second cabinet
in 1926 Mr. Bennett was made Minister
of Finance and later was the chief financial critic while in opposition. In the
autumn of 1927 Mr. Bennett reached
the top rung of the ladder of public
service, when he was appointed to the
leadership of a great party.

Mr. Bennett has not only achieved
leadership in his professional and political activities, he has reached a high
place in the world of finance. He was
a member of the directorates of the
Royal Bank of Canada, International
Paper Co., and many other great corporations and for years he was the
directing head of the Eddy business.

_ Notwithstanding his professional, political and business activities Mr. Bennett
has always maintained a keen interest
in his alma mater. For a number of
years he has served as a member of the
Board of Governors. He has taken a
special interest in the building up of

i . oo
0 ee ee ee

 

rr
 
  
 
  
     
 
   
 
 
    
  
    
 
   

Where ay tes 
  

ihousie welcomes today one of her most
returns to honor the university by a visit.
housie in the year 1893, Hon. R. B. Bennett,
, has risen steadily in life until now he stands
Opposition in the Dominion Parliament. The
Bennett is timely as he will be the guest of
speaker during the celebration of Founders’ Day
served for the first time today.

Visits us as a graduate, an alumnus and a former
throughout his busy career, kept the memory of

the welfare of his Alma Mater in a prominent
- Not only for his benefactions to the university
C interestin ‘The Life of the Little College,” is the
r of the Opposition to be welcomed when he arrives today.

A

  
 
  

is only just that the faculty and students extend a royal
e to her distinguished son. The Guasette takes this oppor
ry to extend a sincere welcome to Hon. Mr. Bennett and to

   
 
  

 

  

wm 4 aoe 4
| sd .

Be a. ; if af ntercollegiate Debate

*

 
 
 
 
  
  
  

  

-. The gymnasium should present a busy scene next Monday
ht when Acadia and Dalhousie clash in a regularly scheduled
ollegiate debate. The question to be discussed is that of the
mic advantage of Bolshevism with regard to Russia since
The Dalhousie team, composed of Roy Laurence, leader, and
arker and Donald Grant, will argue for the benefits of the

- is expected that they will make a strong stand.

  

  
 

 

nbent upon every student who professes to be intivities of the University to be present at the debate
Monday evening and thus, by moral support, help the local
debaters°on to a win. A good attendance of sympathetic listeners
greatly aids a speaker and it is to be hoped that this assistance
ill be given our team by the student body.

rf J ee a,
r ? ~~
a a 3 —
: r Vel
te
q nora
y 4 me
. E
4
ri i

    
 
   
  

   

tte wishes the intercollegiate debaters success on Mon
  
   
    
   
    
  
 
   
    

: Te ae

oe The Election

           
         
    
 
  
    
   
     
   
  
 

    

 

a Se Vos! >

bomen More interest than usual was shown in the annual elections for
Pa tiembe rship on the Council of Students this year, probably due
| __ .to the added question of the advisability or otherwise of a raise in
| _-_—_‘ the present Council fee. The professional schools especially took
_ azlively interest in the proceedings. The votes cast in law, medbegin. as icine and-dentistry represented practically one hundred percent of
the total enrolment in those schools. In Arts and Science only

_-___ about sixty-five percent of the students voted.
e ___.__ The new council, composed of Misses Barnstead and McLaggan
and Messrs. Rankin, McCunn, Grouge, Stewart, Laurence, Bennett, MacIntosh, MacKenzie, Farmer and Macleod, forms a very
| _—_—s§- fe€ipresentative body and should prove a strong link in student gov"+ €mnment during the coming year. The Gazette takes this oppor___ tunity to extend to the council-elect good wishes for a prosperous
peer: and active year. We feel sure that the newly elected body will
serve with distinction for themselves and benefit for the student

“The question of the advisability or otherwise of an increased
fee ‘for ‘the student activities in the coming year was defeated by
the professional schools where a majority of exactly one hundred
1 ed up against it. In Arts and Science the vote stood at
en in favour of the increase, thus giving a total majority
iree against the proposed raise.

- of the proposed increase is rather unfortunate in
vay. It means that the out-going Council in one of
, has not had the support of the students.
voiced the opinion that, if the question had been
dealt with and if some compromise had been made
the increase the council would have had better

   
  

a"
a
=
=

 

  
  

    
 
  
 
   
   
 
 
  
   
   
   
  
 

esent council post a resolution, adopting a tenuch they went to the students for their support.

rendum of the question amounted to last
s seen in the vote. The Council was not
Body. This makes the vote appear as a
1 the Council. Had the Council delayed
the vote had been taken they would not
now are. As it stands now they have a

 
  
   
 

  
  

nich has been passed by the Council,
or carried out without the support of
incil has the power to do this but

_the motion, it is certain that the

; the adverse student

mag

fice next autumn will be con
 
  
 
 
 
 

'
‘i

 

 
   

ths

ey oe _
ry. 4 = a
am a iol grey cf

f Tomy

| not be ! |
| attitude taken by. a large number of the

ulture.

money, prattically the
Students’ Council this}

|
|cussed.

of the
sal Gazette.

— Bria oe

_Sir:—The mass meeting of the students held on Thursday, March 1, can
| called a huge success. The

o the Editor

students, particularly from law was not

{altogether in keeping with the idea of

the meeting, and had a bad influence

| on the procedure and discussion.

_ The Council of Students has for some
years been devoting thought to the
question of raising the fee. I under
|stand that constitutionally they had

the right to do this themselves. But
‘because this would effect all the students in a financial way, they decided
to leave the matter wholly to the student body, merely recommending that
the amount be ten dollars. The Council asked that the students express their
views in the ‘‘Gazette”’ and at a general
meeting. They also provided a means
for every student to vote on the question.

With this attitude of the Council, it
was a great shock to the students generally to find that a group from Law was
possessed with the idea that something
was being forced on them. They monopolized the time, and gave the impression that this was a chance to
practice for a political career. In true
political eloquence they treated Mr.
Godsoe as the leader of the government
and the council and various managers
as the cabinet. Dr. Wilson might be
regarded as the Senate and the students,
as a whole the Lower House. In their
brilliant speeches they seemed _to denounce the proposal of the ‘“Government’’ and even to want confidence
in it and the “Senate,’’ or committee
to scrutinize the Council expenditures
In fact there was even a touch of that
polite personal bitterness common in
party politics.

When the meeting was thrown open
to the flaor Mr. Winfield, manager of
the football team opened the discussion
in an orderly fashion by giving his
experiences as manager, but in the very

On Agriculture

Our public schools and our universities in educating the people away from
the land, are to be blamed for the fact
that one out of every three of Nova
Scotia’s farms stands deserted, and as
many more are slowly but steadily
being overgrown by bushes and trees.
Farming, to the general public, is only
fit for fools. So the old farmer himself,
taunted by this state of public opinion,
sacrifices his last to save his sons and
daughters from this fate by educating
them into one or the other of “the
professions." But farming is the noblest
and healthiest of professidns and. requires, for best results, the best bratns
in the country. Also, it is efficient
farmers that Canada stands in direct
need of. It is up to the schools to make
the people realise and appreciate this
fact.

Dalhousie, being the largest college
in the Maritime Provinces, could do
more than any -other institution in
bringing about this much-needed change
in public opinion. We should have,
first, a compulsory. class in. agriculture
wherein a general course in farming
would be given, its economic and other
advantages pointed out, and a special
effort made to destroy the fallacious
idea that farming is a menial occupation
and not worthy of a college graduate.
Then in the second place there should
be a complete agricultural course available to any student who whould wish
to follow up this line of study. We
have our Bachelors of Commerce, and
our Bachelors of Science, Bachelors of
Pharmacy, Bachelors of Music, Bachelors of Arts—whatever that may meanWhy should we not have Bachelors of
Agriculture?

I do not know that such a degree
exists anywhere, but what does that
matter? Must we forever be bound
by the narrow shackles of tradition?
1 am convinced that nothing would
contribute more to the dignity of an
agricultural profession in this province
than such recognition by its leading
university. Some there are who will
say that there is no need for agriculture
to be taught in a university since there
is in Truro an excellent agricultural
college. In answer I would point out
that there is right here in Halifax an
excellent technieal college but that
nevertheless a full course in engineering
is given at Dalhousie. Moreover, those
who go to an agricultural college are
the few who have already made up their
minds to take farming seriously. The
advantage of agriculture being taught
at Dalhousie would be in gaining converts. At least half of those. who come
to Dalhousie have no very definite
plans as to their life’s vocation. But
being once, through the compulsory
class suggested, introduced into the
fascinating science of agriculture, and
seeing it honoured by a respectable
university degree, it is more than likely
that many of those who, by force of
circumstance, and not of inclination,
might become indifferent and superfluous' professionals, would become what
we so badly need: intelligent and progressive farmers.

P. L. H. Muschamp.

A number of Canadian Colleges grant
a B.S. A.—Bachelor of Science in A gricDalhousie gives only the first
two years Engineering Course under an
agreement entered inta by the dijferent
Universities of the Maritime Provinces.
The final au instruction may be obiained at N.S.

Edi Note.

‘Are you an advocate of Bolshevism?

Go to the gym on Monday evening and
hear Hufstevien, pro and con, dis
 

   

next speaker the political element came
in. Later Mr. Bishop tried to bring
the “‘House’’ down to business by
offering a constructive comparison between Dalhousie and Acadia, Mr. Murray explained the hockey situation with
relation to finances. Still later Mr.
Tupper as president of the D. A. A. C.,
showed how cuts had been made on
budgets submitted to that society.
In spite of these and several other
attempts at good discussion the precedure seemed to wander. be

Some asked what was to be done with
the extra money. It was shown, though
not altogether directly, that the increased amount was for larger grants
to all student activities, free admission
to home games, and to insure the students from haying to dip in their pockets
for extra amounts during the term.
Several were not satisfied with this and
wanted a complete list of future expenditures. Since few people have the
powers of Mrs. Letters it must be left
to the students to choose good council
representatives who will dispose of the
money properly and the committee of
Mr. Mahon and Dr. Wilson must see
that this programme is carried out.

There was one suggestion that a
specific amount be put aside in a sinking fund for some future’ need. This
would amount to taxing the students
for more than is needed for current
expenditures by the amount annually
set aside for that fund.

In closing let me say that the men in
Law are to be envied as speakers, but in
the diseussion on Thursday their ability
to find and enlarge technicalities was
hardly required. Their discussion was
lacking in constructive thought. One
thing that was pleasing was the fact
that. everybody seemed to favor an
increased fee as a necessity, but the
amount of the increase desired could not
be agreed upon.

Fletcher Smith

 

Summer Employment

Each summer the Geological Survey
of Canada sends out about 50 field
parties employing nearly 100 stvdents
as assistants. These parties carry on
mapping operations.in every province
and territory of Canada. They work
in all types of country, in areas of geological and mining importance, and
provide training for students in geelogy
and surveying. The staff of the Geological Survey is recruited from students
who have worked on its parties. While
the principal function of the Geological
Survey is to map Canada geologically,
in doing it is necessary to produce high
grade topographical maps. Topogrqphical mapping is a distinct part of the
activities of the Survey and is essentially
a field for the training of Wining and
civil engineering students. Knowledge
of geology. is not necessary for employment on a topographical party but a
knowledge of topographical mapping
is a valuable asset to a geological student. The experience to be gained in
topographical mapping with the Geological Survey covers the whole range
of detailed and exploratory mapping
methods. Photo-topography, planetable operations, transit traverse, triangulation and levelling are some of the
more important methods used.

General information and application
forms may be obtained from the professors In the departments of Geology,
civil engineering and mining engineering, by those students who have passed
their second year examinations in one of
these departments. Rates of pay depend upon the experience of the applicant. An inexperienced student receives $2.50 per day, together with
travelling expenses and subsistence in
the field. Applications should be addressed to the ‘Director of the Geological
Survey, Ottawa, Ontario, before the
end of March.

Steal a rein ania cnt as

“The Times” Past and Present

Halifax is to he visited this week-end
by Mr. John Walter, M. A., (Oxon,)
co-chief proprietor, with Major the
Hon. J. J. Astor, M. P., of the world’s
greatest newspaper, the London ‘‘Times”’

Founded. in 1785 by John Walter,
great-great-grandlather of the present
John Walter, the London ‘‘Times” has
become an integral part of England,
of English life and traditions. It is
more than a newspaper; it is a national
institution of world-wide influence.
Many of the great names of English
literature have been and are among its
contributors. [ts record of public service is unequaled and today it stands,
like the Bank of England, one of modern England’s proudest links with a
glorious past.

The present Mr. John Walter worthily maintains the traditions of his house
and name in the matter of public service, traditions which have done much
to make the ‘‘Times'* what it is today—
the most highly respected and famous
newspaper in the world. A man of
varied activities, Mr. John Walter has
won for himself the appreciation, gratitude, and esteem of his fellow-countrymen.

’ He has been invited to Halifax by
the National Council of Education to
lecture on “ ‘The Times’—Past and
Present,’’ the lecture to be given at the
School for the Blind on the evening of
Saturday, March 17th. As a man
prominent in the public life of his own
country, he will have much to say that
will be of interest and inspiration.
Coming to Canada as the represent
 

   
  
      
      
           
       
 
 

     
  
   
  
 

    
 

DEFEAT ACADIA FEMALES
| 8—_18

The third game of the Intercollegiate
League was played in the Dalhousie
Gymnasium on Saturday morning between Mount Allison and the Dal Coeds.

It did not arouse much enthusiasm
among the spectators as it was very
uninteresting from the fan’s point of
view. The ball was controlled by the
centres throughout the entire game
and the Dal girls had the edge although
it was at no time certain which side
would win until the middle of the second
half. Pauline Lister of Mt. Allison and

Eileen Cameron, the two opposing
side-centres, were the star players

for both teams. Alice Atherton was
very effective for Dalhousie, scoring in
all thirteen points.

The first period was close and started
with both teams holding their own.
Dal made the first tally and Mt.
A. at once determined to run in a basket.
The Dal guards weré so good in their
intercepting of passes that the opposing
forwards could not get near the basket
and Muriel Winters resorted to shooting
far out. Most of the attempts were
away off and the Dal defence did not
give the Mt. A. forwards a chance at
are-bound. Brilliant combination carried the ball to the Dal scorers but Mt.
A. defence held the score to 7—+4 at the
end of the first period.

When the second period started the
Dal players expected a mighty comeback, but were prepared, having had
experience when they were defeated
in Sackville three. weeks ago. Mt. A.
did not fail to do what they feared but
the fast play was short-lived, and the
whole team soon weakened under the
strain of the fast pace they had set.
At this time in the game Dal opened up
for the first time this season and showed
what they were capable of doing. The
fans, such as they were, opened their
eyes at the brilliant combination and
the accurate shooting of the local girls.
The centres got away fast and completely baffled the centres of Mt. A:
[t must be noted that the most inconspicuous position on the team deserves
a large portion of the credit of the vic
se 9th, 1928

The many friends of T. J. Morrison,
Med. '28, sympathise with him in the
eas of his mother which occurred last
“riday.

* * *

Dr. J. H, Elliott, associate professor of
medicine at the University of Toronto,
and an authority on Tuberculosis infection, visited Halifax this week and
on Tuesday morning gave an excellent
lecture to the medical students of Dalhousie. Dr.-Elliott spoke on the infection aspect of Tuberculosis and his
lecture was received with great pleasure
by the medicals. Dr. Kenneth MaciSenzie introduced the speaker.

* ke

_ Suggested platforms for next year’s
Council elections—elevator for the Arts
Building. 2 A.M. dances; shorter hour
lectures and louder bells.
x * * i
1927-28 has been a year you don't
want to forget. How will you do this?—
The Year Book of course.
* * *
How do I look
Sweet enough to kiss
Aw—go on.

———<—$<$___4
Distinguished Speakers.

George William Russell, poet, painter, economist and journalist, spoke
in the University of Toronto Schools
auditorium under the auspices of the
Canadian Authors’ Association, the
staff in English of the University and
other bodies. His subject was “Some
Personalities in Irish Literature.”

—Varsity.

SS
Don't forget the Intercollegiate Debate Monday night.

Miss Take

She took my hand in sheltered nooks

_obe took my flowers and my books,

tory over the Mounties on Saturday— |} She took my cash, she took my eye,

the Dalhousie defence. When the final| She took my hankies and my

whistle blew the score stood 18—8 in
favor of Dalhousie.
Lineup:—Centres J. Dumaresgq, E.
Cameron, ]. Fraser; Forwards I. Wood
(3), A. McCurdy (2), A. Atherton (13);
(;uards, B. Freeman and L. Barnstead.

Biology Club
Holds Meeting

The Biology Club at its meeting on
March 1st dealt with historical aspects
of biological science. Two members
of the club were speakers, Miss Sheila
Macdonald and Miss Aileen Macaulay.
Miss Macdonald described with illustrations the earliest types of microscopes, known as “flea glasses,’’ by use
of which earliest studies in minute
anatomy were accomplished. She
traced the rapid modification of the
microscope through stages that resembled elaborate safety razors up to
an unwieldly combination of compound
and simple microscope constructed by
Adams for King George ITI. ;

Miss Macaulay gave an entertaining
account of four early naturalists—
Hooke, Leevwenhock, Malpighi and
Swammerdam. The portraits of Malpighi were certainly no recommendation
of the study of biology as a means of
rejunenation, since a few years of such
work transformed Malpighi from an
Adonis into an ugly old gentleman.
The speaker skilfully contrasted the
four men, their temperaments, abilities
and achievements.

The next meeting of the club on March 15th will be addressed by Charles
Murray and E. W. Murray.

 

ative of a newspaper which was already
old when Dalhousie was established,
which has witnessed the industrialization of England, the acquisition of
the second and the development of the
Third British Empire, the rise of an
English democracy and the growth of
popular education, he has with diffidence
agreed to make these great journalistic
traditions the principal subiect in his
addresses in Canada. No less important will be the opportunity presented
him of personally studying conditions
in this country. Mr. Walter's visit
has a special significance since it follows
so closely after those of Premier Baldwin
andCol. Amery.

tie,

She took my sweets, she took my heart
And once she even took my part.

she took my pin, she took my arm,
She took my kiss, she took alarm,

She took my time, she took my fame,
She took my ring, but not my name,
She took just all that I could buy,

And then she took another guy.

—‘De Giver.

 

Sodales Discusses
Jazz, Petting, Vamps

(Continued from page 1)

 

that counts. I am hardly qualified to
speak on the petting problem. It’s
like Mark Twains saying about the
weather: ‘Everybody talks about it,
but no one does anything.’ (much
laughter). However I should think
that a little of what we like is good for
us!

_ Ken Smith: There was as much petting in old fashioned parlor as in Pine
Hill cars today!

_ C. G. “Bub’’? MacKinnon: Nectar
from Saint Margaret’s Bay is not the
best thing for us! “Bub” then went
into a long dissertation on the chances
of our organs today as compared with
the pre-Modern-Civilization Days. He
referred very knowingly to the disease
known as “‘falling organs.”’

Jack Atwood then arose and in his
usual elaborate and interesting manner
passed judgment on many of the weak
points of the previous speeches.

Bill Winfield: I shall give a few words
of comfort to Mr. MacKinnon and his
falling organs. Modern Dress is greatly
beneficient to our bodies. If you have
the body propped up by what was in
prehistoric days as corsets, you would
surely have falling organs. Take down
corsets—down come the organs.
(Laughs).

Miss Dresner: It has certainly been a
pleasure to listen to the advice given
by the doctors. This is the first time
in years that Medicals have spoken at
Sodales and they have redeemed themselves.

What with frank confessions, anatomical dissertations and_ philosophical
prophecies, Sodales has again put up its
standard another notch.

 

‘tee ae

Special Volumes from our Sheet Music Department

ONE DOLLAR |

Standard Vocal Album of Tenor Songs
‘ Contralto Songs

Baritone Songs
Bass songs
Irish Songs Scottish Songs
C ice

lhe Collegian Song Book

Album of Standard Overtures for Piano
, Artists Repertoire for Pianoforte
Johann Strauss Dance Music for Pianoforte
Schirmer Album of Twenty-five Piano Classics

Mail order given prompt attention

Standard ‘ =
| Standard ‘ Meat
| Standard ‘* od TP
) Standard ‘ Ds
| Standard ‘ pee et ts
| Choice Songs for low vo
|

We would appreciate your inquiries for anything you may need in Music.

     
   

    
   
 
   

     
    
 

   
  

 
   
  

  
  

   
  
   
 
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
 

   
   
 
  
   
   
   
  
   

       
     
  
   
  

  

  

 
5

ee Now it Can Be Told

Bub McKinnon: I have nothing for |.

ne€ z publication but I am sorry the $10 fee

f. Dé isie was founded on™ the
princi oe laid down, by the University
fof, Edint , an old Scotch tradition
| still remains, "that of being tight and

: the students seem to be getting tighter

i} and tighter—as they get more Scotch!
lh rl ‘The Engineers had a huge wind mill

Wr in the gymnasium for the Delta
Samma "danees ‘The Law Society had

fant of them planted there at the Mass
Meeting on Thursday. And what fun
|—Wackey Mckinnon was having a
better time discussing the X dollar fee
| than — prohibition or Graham Allen or
any of those other jokes—and Jack
Atwood couldn't have been more pleased

| if he had passed in Latin 13.
Knowing that the readers of the
| Gazette would be extremely interested
lj/in what prominent men and women
| have to say about the results of the

co

bn
1

os

A
ee ee ee

B © Gicing i ‘Standard |
— es. our om Price

a

- fil|election, I ‘have interviewed a few of
| ‘these infamous folk and publish statei
!

+

ae ee

ments. which may be used as evidence
against them:

J. Gerald: ‘‘T have absolutely nothing
to say on. the matter—except that you
might pass on as a hint to future presidents this parting word of advicesex appeal and IT can help, but can
not win elections, and all those who
voted against the $10 fee are nothing
but great hig hoobus goobuses! And
they can fly a kite and see if I care!"

A. M. M. “I do not wish to be
|| quoted but if the students of the univ
P FULL, DRESS ih

mes’ 1

Se TEDO, at one |

ee el et oe ee Sa

"MADE TO-MEAS URE

Tip Top Tailors

| ne STUDENTS’ TAILORS

favour of reading “Ultime Thule” they |
will find that fishes seldom perspire, '
and also that one finds it extremely
difficult to swim in a pool room.

|

arr aston: ad Sackville Sts

mg : ¥ ad Be Ee a —

“Germany and

England is a land of amateurs, Germany a land of professionals; the quality most prized in England 1s, “fair

lay,” in Germany ‘ ‘discipline.”’ When
it is»said that England is the land of
amateurs, it is not meant that the
| amateurs are less skilful than the professionals, but that they approach things
from a different angle. It has been
claimed that in order to male a_ Briton
He his best, you must persuade him that
he ts playing the game, you must persuigde a German that it is his duty to do
so. To appeal to a Breton to play the
|| game is more effective than to exhort
=- |him to be a Christian. In Germany
such an appeal sounds ridicuously, feeble
|| compared with the appeal to, ‘Duty
+h and fatherland.” It mav he asked:
| How is it that sport and athletics have
} | gone forward with such a swing in Ger‘many since the war? The answer is,
ar || | “Duty and the Fatherland.”
When the Peace Treaty forbade conscription in Germany her leaders looked
| around to find a substitute. The fighting qualities of the British soldier during
the war, “an amateur soldier,” had
compelled their respect and admiration,
and they sought to find out what in
| Kitchener's Armies had taken the place
of pre-war compulsory military training.
They soherly came to the conclusion
that it was sport. The newspapers
began a_propaganada for sport. It
was decided therefore that Cerman
youths must go in for sport. Games
became part of army training and the
|leading statesmen attended the first
nights. When the German breast stroke
swimming champion , Rodemacher visited the United States in 1926 and was
successful in his racing there, the Ger‘man Ambassador in Washington wrote
home to his Government, that Rod‘'emacher’s visit had done more tor the
German cause in the States than half
a dozen political deputations, and he
advised the sending of more such athletes. This dispatch was_ published
‘in all the newspapers in Germany as
propaganda for sport, and the infor‘mation was given at the same time,
that the visit of Nurmi, the Finnish
runner to America a year or two ago,
had contributed mainly to the success
of a loan for Finland on the American
market. Not sport for the sport of
the th ng, but sport as a means to an
end. is the idea of the powers that lie
in Germany. This ts not so say that
Germans do not play games for the
pleasure of playing or that there are no
true sportsmen amongst them, but the
great increase in sport and athletics in
Germany since the war has been due
to the deliberate support by the German Government and public authorities.

As might be expected from a professional type of mind such as the German mind is, the propaganda and also
the training has been done on sciertific
lines. Municipalities have built excellent stadiums, football and rowing
clubs have imported foreign trainers.
At the Berlin Stadium there exists

re Grkatesi Agsed of a bus
4mess is to give customers
what — they want—when
Bley want it.

on er rr

always delivered when
promised at the

NOVA PRINT Ltd |

| -: 227-229 Hollis Street
: (One Block Nene of Poet. Office

=

i

oe
|

ee ee
-)
oo

—
-~ 2
4

aoe

¢

ee to ce our |

>To LENDING. LIBRARY

eae 2 cents per day

{Mend Musi Co.

- 93 Barrington St. Halifax

|| CLASS

| JEWELLERY
We enjoy the distinction of
making practically all Dalhousie

Class Jewellery.

|| We appreciate the trust placed
_ in us by the Dalhousie students
and in turn always assure them

of our very best service.

HENRY BIRKS & SONS
LIMITED

cae "Diamond Merchants HALIFAX

Commerce
mOCICLY

NEW
STYLE

———__—_—__—_—---
F ARRELL’S

391 Barrington St.

U

Aw ‘Complete Book—Stationery
ia ae and” Gift Shop Service

i
ih ’

YOUR BARBER!

CENTRAL—The nearest Barber Shop to the College. _

SERVICE—Always four experienced barbers in attendance

Satisfaction Guaranteed

Special Bobbing Parlors
~ For Ladies .

ze in Society Print| + of all kinds, such as
i SP INVITATIONS —
OUNCEMENTS
_ DANCE)PROGRAMS
§ Maite Ete. Etc. 4:
ores first in quality |
ery moderate prices © oa

© Publishers of
onal Auatomy”™
's Osteo eology & Artholocy’

A ‘a.
: re

ae | 23 Spring Garden Road

ersity would do me the intoxicating | 5

a High Schoo! for Sports and Athletics. |

A.PUBLICOVER ||.

pporters weren't successful but they
must remember the words of° Napoleon
before the battle of Bunker Hill: ‘We
all.can’t win,” he said to his men “and”
he continued—‘‘I am glad to see Murray
Rankin ad ahead—he needed one
badly. BT

Herbie: “Please don’t quote me but
it reminds me of the story of how
Goldsmith found his inspiration for the
Deserted Village. Stop me if you've
heard this one. Well it seems that Mr.
Goldsmith went into the town of Pictou
on tag day. Heh, heh, heh, heh, heh,
heh, heh (the collegiate laughter is

erbie’ s).

Graham Alien: “Don’t tell anyone
but ‘its all the same to me’ she said
smilingly. But on the other hand—
she had a wart—notwithstanding—
in the vestibule. ‘Three fresh cheers
for the Rollo boys and I hope Prof.
Theakston, Engineer in charge of
‘buildings and what not will get some
new chairs too—he needs them bad
enough for his old gymnasium.

The Fair-Co-Ed: Oh! You want to
know what I think of the election.
Ah say—don’t you dare put it in the
Gazette—but I fooled them all. You see
T didn't know who to vote for and who
not to—and I just couldn’t vote against
anyone so I thought the thing over
carefully and made up my mind since
it was my duty to vote—I went to that
funny little kitchen place in the gym.
and voted for everybody, and I don’t
see why they didn’t all get in. The
| $10 fee? Oh! say now isn’t that just too
bad—I didn’t know they were voting
on that!

—Kayeeeleewhy.

the Olympics.”

In this High School there is a lecture
room to held 250 persons, and physiological, anatomical~ and Rontgen-ray
laboratories, a large gymnasium, a
hoxing ring, a large library, a canteen,
and a administrative office. Solutions
and experiments are being worked out, as
meaning the reaction of a sprinter’s
start. All technical problems connected
with the new field of sport are investigated into and in. truth this German
High School is a Research Institute as
well as a teaching establishment. The
study plan, skilfully combines theory and
practice. One can obtain their degree
as, “Sport and Gymnastic Teacher with
Diploma.”’

hus we see how scientifically the
Germans are teaching the athletic problem. They are training for the Oly
‘mpic Games of 1928 with.all their thor-|

oughness and all their discipline. Now
that the German newspapers tabulate
the records of different events at previous Olympic games and compare
them with the best German records:
and on such a showing, one paper recently demonstrated that out of elev en
events the Germans ought to win at
least eight. Large grants of money
have been made towards Germany's
Clympic team and her athletes are
going to the © lympics for the first time
since the war detcrmined to raise Germanys prestige.

Germany will head all countries in
the number of competitors for the
(lympiec honors at the IX Olymniade.
The German Olympic Committee has
arranged for the participation of 276
athletes, who will be led by Dr. Peltzer
and accompanied by 41 trainers and
attendants.

So it will be with keen interest that
the Athletic World, will follow the feats
of Germany's “athletic soldiers,” at
Amsterdam this August.

T. Foley, (jr.)
Sipeirinepateemnpe alain meses atin

Evolution.

An appalling prospect is visualized
by an editorial writer. He says that as
habits are known to alter physical
structure, we may, perhaps ask ourselves if the increasing number of
hours we spend in motorcars may not
presently alfect our capacity for walking, and pessibly preduce a creature,
massive as to upper proportions, but
very attenuated about the legs. A
sort of motorang-outang!

—MeGill Daily.

HE PRINTING DEPARTMENT .-of the
Imperial Publishing Co.,
Limited, is famous for the
quality of its press work,
if on Booklets, Catalogues,
and all kinds of Job Ivinting.
Telephone Sackville 1017

SEE WALLACE

|) OPTOMETRIST AND OPTICIAN
¥ M. C. A. BLOG. HALIFAX,N.S

With Goosen:

and Paste Pot

Italy Celebrates Rice Day.

Benny Mussolini (to give him his ring:
side name), certainly has some bright
ideas. And what’s more, he’s in a
position to put them into practice.

A news dispatch states that he staged
a national “rice day’ in Italy, consisting of an editorial campaign in the
newspapers and a concentrated barrage
of dietetics levelled at the people by
lectures, concerning the nutritive value
of rice. This is calculated to make
Italian people bigger and. stronger,

make them more frugal and prevent
them from relying too much on Canadian wheat, Green Mountain potatoes,
Swiss’ cheese and similar commodities.
Rice is ey idently - as easy to grow as
spagetti (don't laugh, we mean the grain
that spagetti is made from,) but spagetti
evidently needs no publicity, and Benny
probably thinks that his people need to
exercise a new set of eating muscles
not required in the assimilation of
spagetti.

We in Canada, should not be behindhand in following Mussolini's lead.
In Quebec, we should have a cheese
day, as cheese is ahout the largest food
product manufactured here.

Lecturers and dietetists could then
tell the masses that the tame cheesus
OQuebeckus much more nutritious
than the rampant Gorgonzola and easier
to kill; then it contains an abundance
of vitamins, A, B, C, D, and E, and F.,
if vitamins E. F. are discovered between

P
1S

rty may be a bore —the lady of
ones choice may be dancing with another
-yet there's stil! a morsel of satisfaction in
the dreariest festivities for the man

now and cheese day; that cheese and|
crackers eaten half-an-hour before retiring is an ideal diet. The Union and
other cafeterias could serve cheese
at every meal, with special cheese dinners
(at 25 cents,) now and then.

Canadian apples could be boosted
by an Apple day. Everyone knows
that an apple a day keeps the doctor
away. All the frequent use of that
motto would lead to a decline in the
import of Spanish onions, because
everyone would be reminded of the
counter-motto—‘‘An onion a day keeps
every-body awav.”’

We might also boost sweet corn as
being the best exercise for the front
teeth, and Western beef as unbeatable
forthe molars. Asa motto for the latter
let us suggest.

The daily use of Western beef.

Keeps the dentist off yer teef.

Then, for the benefit of our brethren
up north, we could: have a blubber day,
experts asserting the value of blubber
for children, as against cheap one-cent
eandy and deadly black “‘lick’rish’’.

A “tabac canadien” day would doubtless be a huge success, and boost the
sale of the whiff-ty home-grown product. We could then invite Miss Mand
Royden up here and have many other
interesting features.

Seriously, we would like to see Canadian food more popular. Too much
inyported food comes to us in the winter,
and if Mussolini’s plan could be ac lopted
to some extent in Canada, we feel it

would be very much to the good.
—MeGill Daily.

College Within College.

University of Michigan's university
college project, which interposes a
two-year preparatory course between
entering students and the ‘professional
schools, has been sanctioned by the
general committee of the University
College. The faculties of the various
schools and colleges, and the regents
must add their approval before the
plan will go into effect. No opposition
is expected, however, inasmuch as during
the two years spent in framing the project all the faculties had a part in the
task.

Under the new order, the College of
Literature, Science and the Arts assumes the status of a professional school
to which admission will be granted upo?
successful completion of two years of
work in the new university college. The
same requirement will control admittance to the other professional schools.
Consequently, students who indicate
inability to proceed with advanced and
professional! work, can be eliminated at
the end of two years.

Entering students will be permitted
to indicate a major interest, on the
basis of which they will be assigned
faculty advisers. Common _ interests
in sugject matter and specialization
will guide these appointments. The
whole program permits variation, and
it is expected eventually to grant its
registrants opportunity to work on their

own initiative.
—The New Student.

UNIVERSITY OF MANITOBA

HUDSON’S BAY COMPANY . RESEARCH FELLOWSHIP

The above fellowship, of the annual valu > of
$1, 500,00, tenable at the University of Manitoba,
in any branch of pure or applied science, open to
graduates of any Canadian University, will be
filled for 1928 about May tst. Applications
should be in the hands of the Registrar of Manitoba University, Winnipeg, Manitoba, by Apri
ist. Further particulars on application.

Address, THE REGISTRAR,
Universityof Manitoba,
Winnipeg, Manitoba

Gauvin & Gentzel
Whotoqraphers

ae

18 Spring Garden Road
Phone Sac. 692

MacLEOD, BALCOM

—DRUGGISTS—
5 STORES
34 Morris St. 174 Spr. Garden Rd.

103 Young St. 139 Agricola St.
Cor. Quinpoo!l Rd. and Oxford St.

HALIFAX, N.S.

COLLEGE COLORS

We have a good supply of our
distinctive DAL Stationery.

Neat size crest, die stamped in
yellow and black on high class
parchment paper, club size, with
envelopes stamped to match, suit
First Diploma in Japanese. able for ladies or gentlemen.

For the first time in the history of],
Oregon a university diploma has been ||
issued ‘ written entirely in Japanese.
This queer looking document, which
starts at the right side-and reads upward and to the left, has been forwarded by Earl M. Pallett, registrar of
the University of Oregon, to Masa Nori Yamashita of Kagawokon, Manugama, Japan, a graduate with the class of
January, 1928.

Yamashita ts applying for a place and
needs the document to go with his
application, the certificate, which was
translated and put on University a
tionery, was the work of H. Tsuboi,
Japanese student from Portland.

Sold in bulk only, buy any quantity you require.

Faulkner’s Book Store
16 Spring Garden Road

oe — — —a

STUDENTS’ ELECTRIC
LAMPS AND SUPPLIES

FARQUHAR BROS, LTD.

Barrington Street

PROGRAMMES
and other JOB PRINTING

receive our special attention ©
The ROYAL PRINT & LITHO Ltd.

—Varsity.
Snap Courses.

Wholesale revision of the Columbia
University curriculum within the next
two years, and the probably introduction
of “‘snap” courses was discussed by
Dean Herbert E. Hawkes in an alumni
day talk.

Dean Hawkes said that a committee
is considering the introduction of
“snap courses. These he favors. He
told the alumni that “if the system
is put through as I favor it some of
the best lecturers in college will give
courses two or three times a week for
which there will be no examination
and for which half credit will be given.
| think this will serve to acquaint
the students with the subject matter
of the course without having them
bother to an unnecessary degree about
preparing for examinations.

‘Snap’ courses have often worked
out very well. A course at Harvard
which was reputed to be very easy
turned out many very good geologists.
The faculty, however, did not approve
of the eaistence of any course as easy
as this one, with the result that there
have been no good geologists produced
since the abolition of the course.”

—The

Athletic Report.

Princeton’s athletics for the year
ending last July cleared a total of
$41,000, even though football was the
only self-supporting sport in the entire
group of intercollegiate and intramural
games. Football netted a profit of
$212,544, |

NURSERY

1088to 1099 Barrington St.
—THREE PHONES—

Cut Flowers, Bouquets and all
Floral Work.

Black Stiff Hats
1928 Styles

Silk and Wool Socks
o0c a pair

Frank Colwell Ltd.

New Address

417 Barrington Street
Opp. Church of England Institute

New Student

“Che Times” Past and Present

A lecture on the world’s greatest
newspaper by its proprietor

MR. JOHN WALTER, M.A.

School for the Blind

March 17th 8.15 P.M.

Tickets 50 cents

at
All Bookstores

Presented under the auspices of the
National Council of Education

 
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
     

   
  
   
 
 
   
     
     
    
  
  
  
 
 
  
       
  
   
  
  
   
  
    
   
     
   
  
 
  
    
   
   
   
     
    
    
  
      
   
     
   
  
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
    
  
  
   
   
  
  
   
  
  
   
     
   
    
   
  
  
   
  
 
   
   

thousie Senior | Basketball five:
e services of George Langsnd George MacLeod, defeated
Tech Colles fone, re

urday at the Y. M
ve the Tieere A Soak place
y, League and placed Tech

ition.
1 victory came as a surprise
! ive to the Technicians.
ei t that it was only by staging a second
period rally that the Tigers succeeded
in defeating their opponents.

oa The first session was productive of
a ie or no good basketball and the
re was, on the whole, rather ragged
mS Seed slow to watch. The Dal team
peared weak without Langstroth and
, and to make matters worse,

ie - retire for the greater part of the period.
‘The team began play with Sperry at
centre, Jones at nace with Ab Smith
and Davidson. and. R ‘oss on the forward
& n Davidson » -retired Goudge
in» his.place. The lineup

wh apps ited weak and, the Tech squad ran
A +. a pea to the Tigers 7 in this session. Although they seemed to take
1 things © easy the Tech squad failed to

lay any real form.

th the second period Davidson returned to the Dal lineup, Sperry went
to his old position on defense, and
Ross played centre with Goudge the
other forward. Almost immediately
the team showed improvement. The

- forwards started to score and the defense appeared considerably stronger.
Before the Tech team got going at all
the Tigers had evened up the score
--~—s and from then on the game was fast and
_ produced the best basketball of the
evening. The Dal forwards began to
run in baskets regularly and the defense held the surprised Tech boys
scoreless for some time. When the
ai ne ; Dal team took the lead things got exee - citing and the Tech rooters shouted
_ advice to their idols. Fora few minutes

the Tigers held a four point lead and
looked good for a few more but the
* Blue and Grey five awoke at last and
started to creep up on the Tigers.

 

tae

o> they succeeded in evening up the score

and for a minute held a one basket
ae re lead but the Tigers were loath to throw
are Pe away their unexpected advantage and
a ey rallied again to outplay the Tech

ee

long enough for the score to shift
in their favour where it remained
1 the end of the game.
le game gave the Tigers undisputed
ero A lace in the league as the teams
re ike fe Heed bet ets ore the game that the winner
. would take second place regardless of
_ their previous tie game which, as a
ie = result, will not be replayed. Ted
—* pa Coaffee refereed in his usual capable
Tite: ak
‘The line-ups: Dal:—Davidson 8;
a Gondee 6; Ross 9; Stewart; Sperry;
_ Jones a: Smith Leo
Tech: Raymond 9; Hayden 5; Brown
7; MacKenzie 3; Lane; Roper; Allen.
——————___>————_——_

 

COMMERCE BEATS MEDS. IN
FIRST OF FINALS

 

The Commerce Basketball quintette
__ won the first game in the playoff series
with the Meds last Saturday at the
Studley gym by outscoring the Medical
five 13—10 in a close hard fought game.
The Commerce team had slightly the
better of the play and the Meds will
have to show better form to- -morrow in
‘the second game if they hope to win and
necessitate another game. The game,
last Saturday, featured strong defensive
work by both teams, especially the
winners. Of the losers points only four
were the result of field goals. On the
other hand the winners counters, with
one exception, were all the result of
; field baskets.
_.. The first half was fairly even with the
score ending 6—3 for Commerce,
Miller, Olive and MacColl scoring for
the millionaires. The second half was
faster and gave the spectators plenty to
enthuse over. Each team scored seven
points with the Commerce five winning
out 13—10. Miller, MacColl and Olive
were the high scorers and the star players for the winners and Cheeseman was
the pick of the Meds. The second
game will take place to-morrow. Should
ay the Meds win another game will be nec
  

essary. If Commerce win they will
- haye the title.
__ Last Saturday the teams lined up as
- follows:

  
 
  
     
   

Commerce :— Miller 5; Olive 4;
MacColl 4; Slayter; Laurence; Harris.

nis am a Cheeseman 6; .E. Ross 1;
- Dougi ewat 2; Richardson:

ree Gite te eae Se

r 7 s
oom <. » «
a ~ ee ae a7

 

  

  

—__—_—
fe

'

   
  

ae 7

    
 
    

The Engineers are the Interfaculty
| Hockey Champions for
4 ie _ boys who “put the heat in hell”

are

     
 
     
 
 
 

wona
_ hard fought battle from the Meds
—sextette at oF Forum by the score
of 3—0. ame was a thriller
_ from start to tints and the Engineers
completely upset the dope as the Meds

i
an 7
he en * 3
A

1

at
a eee game as well as during its earlier
Hdl zi we
Meaty es fast and came near scoring on several
_ occasions. The engineers were playing
owever as they turned the
e later big a oe and rammed
e counters oo er before
aneuaiel We Mec Is knew where
es he c splena defense work
ai nm, and §

, ‘
o.

   
  
 
  

ney: saved
dy work in front |
puted the

SDatinn, wrenched his ankle and had to.

_ ENGINEERS WIN IN HOCKEY
GAME |

1928. The]|

_were heavy favourites to win before }|

Lea peey fe their stellar defenseman | |
m: the Meds started off ||

t for} |
Ss ; one of the features |
many | If

 

   
 
  
  

With the Medical and Comsrenree
fives battling for the Interfaculty Basketball chagiptotchip the interest in the
league is fast coming to a climax. It
can be truthfully said that the interest
displayed this year was the most enth
usiastic for some time. Much credit
is’due to Clyde Sperry under whose
direction the games were played. Just
at present the fad seems to be to select
All Star teams. This was done through
the columns of the Gazette last year
and if any who care to send in their
selections to the Sports Editor, via the
Gazette box, a final selection will be
published in the next issue. The usual
pocedure for a vote for every player
named will be followed. Several have
already been sent in so let’s have yours
now.

The importance of the Interfaculty
Basketball league in the Basketball
annals of the College is greater than
some of us might think. A glance at
the line-up of the present Intermediate
team will give a fairly good estimate
of the value of the league to the Dal
outside “teams. Parker and _ Pottie,
last year Arts men, are now valuable
members of the Dal Intermediate team;
Mitchell, last year with Law; MacRae
and Wilson. also with Arts last year;
and Sullivan and Miller both with Meds
last year. All of these players were
developed in the Interfaculty league
and the future of Basketball at Dalhousie will never be too gloomy as long
as the Interfaculty league continues
to function properly. With the exception of Fraser, last year with St.
F. X., and Goudge, a Freshman, the
whole team that represented Dal in the
Intermediate City League this year
were products of the Interfaculty. This
league also developed Blenkinsop, until
recently a highly valuable member of
the Dal Second team and Hugh Ross
one of the stars of this years Senior
outfit. Charley Jones, spare guard
for the Seniors also made a name for
himself in the Interfaculty circuit.

The Engineers are in line for our
congrats due to their winning the Interfaculty Hockey championship. Although this league didn’t function as well
as it probably will next year, the result
of the various games were satisfactory
and the Engineers well deserve their
win. The winding up of the various
leagues is another sure sign that the
exams are approaching and along with
the doldrums of sport, at least locally.

All of which brings to mind the recent
elections wherein the professional faculties killed the ten dollar fee. We
have nothing but pity for the recently
elected managers etc., whose appeals
for money next year will have to be
cut in half or worse. It’s bad enough
to watch a College stand still but when
it starts to slide back there's something
radically wrong. Rumour has it that
the Gazette will be cut to a five column
affair again next year. if true, it is a

sad reflection on the ‘‘principle” of
certain of our students. Events may
prove their contention, that seven

berries was enough, was right but we
doubt it. For another year we'll have
to pay to see our home games, watch
the Gazette and the Year Book scrape
along on their meagre allowances and
the charity of their well wishers. Truly
we are forging ahead.

 

flashiest individual’ work of the day
when he went the length of the ice for
one of the Engineers tallies; MacDuff
scored the other two by clever playing
when close in on the Med goalie. First
he tallied from a mixup and then he
batted in a roller.

The Meds worked like Trojans for
the remainder of the game but they
were unable to score. The line-ups:

Engineers:—Goal: Beaton; Defense,
MacDuff, Nickerson, Scott; Forwards,
Currie, McKeagen, Prince, Bennett.

Meds.:—Richardson goal; MacDonald and MacLean defense; — Doull,
Townshend, Sutherland, forwards, Ross
and Morash.

Jeff Andrews refereed.

FREEMAN’S

PHARMACY

  
  
 
 

    
  
  

 

  
 
 

   
 
  

  
  
   
   
     
  

  
    
   
   
    
  

Ice Cream Bricks
JOC.

We will send a Brick
anywhere at anytime.

   
 

‘COR. COBURG ano HENRY

   

   
  
 

       
 
     
   
  
   
 
  
   
  
   
 
  

   
 
  
    
 

Halifax Chronicle

AND
The
Halifax Daily Star
The
fastest growing
newspapers in
Nova Scotia

   
  
   
   
  
     
   
  
   
 
  
 

 

   
 

     
 
  
 

“I Prof. Gautheron

Stages Play In
renc

At a meeting of l’Assomption Societe,
last Thursday evening the play “L’Ete
de Saint Martin” was presented. This
play was produced under the direction
of Professor Gautheron. Before the
opening of the play several French songs
were sung by A. students and
violin and piano solos were rendered by
Miss Claire Murphy and Miss Kk.
Sawlor. The leading roles in the production were taken by Miss Muriel
Donahoe and Mr. H. LeBlanc. The
manner in which each member of the
east play his or her part showed the
splendid training given by Prof. Gautheron. The play was greatly enjoyed
by the large audience among whom were
many Academy students and several
Dalhousians.

 

STUDENT MEETING DISCUSSED
RAISE

 

Be it hereby resolved that the Student
Council fee be raised from seven dollars
($7.00) to ten dollars ($10.00) and that
a sinking fund be established of five
hundred dollars ($500.00) to be held in
trust for the Council under the supervision of The Advisory Committee of
the Council, and further that free admission be granted to all students at
Dalhousie home games, and further that
students shall not be solicited or levied
through the council or with its sanction
for any additional monies or fees.

Following an enthusiastic mass meeting of, nearly two hundred students in
the gymnasium on Thursday the Council
of Students drew up the preceeding
resolution.

The chairman, Mr. Godsoe opened
the meeting by introducing Mr. Mahon
who is the Alumni member of the Advosory Committee. This committee
advises the Council concerning the
distribution of funds to the various
societies. Speaking for a few minutes
only Mr. Mahon assured the students
that the Committee only advised the
expenditure of money after lengthy
consideration. He would not give his
opinion as to what the Student Fee
should be. He said that it was up to
the students themselves.

After Mr. Mahon was through the
chairman gave the students an opportunity to ask questions about the proposed change. A number took advantage of the opportunity. The meeting
concluded after a sitting of over an hour.

Es O. A

 

 

 

| MODERN

| PRINTING

MODERATE
| CosT

T. C. Allen & Co.

124 & 126 Granville Street

|

YELLOW CAB

LIMITED

SAC. 4444

Halifax’s Only Metered
Service
Same Rates 24 Hours.

Two travel for same as one.
More than two, 20 cents extra

   

George F. Power

Cigars, Cigarettes, Tobacco
SMOKERS’JREQUISITES

of every Description

    
   
   

—Also—

Cards, Souvenirs of Halifax
Majestic Bldg.
HALIFAX,

 
 

NOTICE!

ee

Discount

CONDONS

Mien’s Store

_ Special

As Usual

The best in Ice Creams, Confectionery and Meals, as wel!
as courtesy, efficent service and
attractive surroundings are to
be had at

| The Green Lantern

 

   
   
  
   
   
   
 
    
   
   

  
    
    
   
   
   
   
  
 
   
  
   
  

  

or
Sa
a) eta |

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

LAW SOCIETY MEETING “‘DENOUNCE INCREASE

 

 

The Law Society held a very enthusiastic and spirited meeting on Tuesday

h Feb. 28. After the reading of the

minutes of the previous meeting in which
were outlined plans concerning a banquet and which recorded a substantial
profit from the Law Dance the members immediately set about to select
their representatives to go up for the
Student. Council Elections. For the
sake of expediency it was decided that
only ‘wo names would go up for election
and as a result William Wickwire and
Roderick MacLeod were chosen.

After these nominations a_ lively
discussion on the proposed raise in the
Students’ Council Fee ensued. Many
fiery speeches were made; the purport of
these was to the effect that sensible men
could not submit to part with money on
a mere indefinite statement that there

should be an inerease. Why the increase? For what specific purposes?
Students must be shown that there

is an absolute and definite need. To
date there has only been an empty puff,
a mere bubble. The advocates of the
increase has given no reasons.

Albert Walsh, Charles Gavsie, M. B.
MacKinnon, Alban Farmer and Andrew
O. Hebb were among those who spoke
at the meeting.

As a result of the discussion pro and
con the Law Society went on record as
follows: that, whereas no definite increase had been advocated and whereas
no specific plans as to the disposal of
the money had been promulgated, let
it be resolved that the Law Society does
not favour any increase in the fee ‘of the
Students’ Council.

AIOE LS PTE TSS TERED”
HUBLEY’S

DRY CLEANING, DYING AND

PRESSING
VALET
4 Tickets ~ - ~ - $2.00
$2 Sackville Street, Phone §$ i093

 

BUTTONS ON
RENTS MENDED
HOLES DARNED

That’s the service you get
free when you send YOUR
Laundry to Ungar’s.

VALETERIA

A new pressing Service:
Your Suit or Overcoat
Steam Cleaned and Pressed, for 75c or 4 Tickets
for $2.00,

NECKTIES cleaned 10c.

UNGAR’S

Barrington St., Halifax, N.S.

Sack 428 Har. 127
LAUNDERING DYEING
CLEANING

VALETERIA |

 

WINNERS "Start"

For 60 years the REACH Trade
Mark on Sporting Goods has been
a mark of perfection. No matter
what your favorite sport may be, we
can supply you with equipment that
will help you play the game with
the best that’s in you.

CRAGG BROS., CO., LID.

Hardware and Sporting Goods
HALIFAX, N. S.

 

To readers of

The Dalhousie Gazette

Kinley's:

THE REXAL
DRUG STORE

For everythings in

Drug Store Needs

499 Barrington Street
Phone Sack. 61

 

Say it with Flowers, Say it with ours
THE HOME OF

Cut Flowers & Potted Plants

We make up Funeral Designs,
also Wedding Bouquets. We also
do Table Decorating. We are the
only members of the T. F. D.,
Florists. We can wire Flowers
to all parts of the world.

Che Roserp

8 BLOWERS ST.
Phone Sac. 3321-3322
Night Phone Sac. 1934

a) , per a :
ees r erie:

 

  
      
 
 

ff ee

“THE LONE EAGLE”
FANS ENTHUSIASM

 

“The Lone Eagle’ featured at the]
Majestic theatre this week, is a story of | ]
an American youth, cocky and selfcentered, who becomes a member of a|f
British flying nit at the time the late| ff
war was at eM hcight, or perhaps worst. |
His reaction to the grim reality of] T
battle and his gradual but nevertheless | | he
forcible change from a carefree youth]
to serious manhood, is portrayed with
a subtlety that should place the director, | |
Emory Tssasen, on a plane with out]§
greatest directors.

Raymond Keane,
the screen but a short while,

who has been on
is the

youth. Barbara Kent plays the role
of his little French sweetheart. Jack
Pennick, a newcomer to the screen,

Nigel Barrie, Don Stuart and Cuyler] |
Supplee are also in the cast. )

The story was written by Lieutenant ||
Ralph Blanchard, who was a member
of the United States air service during]!
the war.

 

“Take My Advice”

Get into the latest style
TUXEDO

“THE NONCHALANT”’
ALL SILK LINED

$24.50
Robinson’s Clothes Ltd.

sgh Barrington St.
pp. Roy Building
“Walk Up Stairs and Save Ten”

‘*Law

‘*Sh

 

CO

especially the Book Lovers
are cordially invited to make
“Wh

OR

THE BOOK ROOM

114 Granville Street
their Headquarters

Come in and browse and
make yourself at home.

E. VICKERY, Manager.
peers

All DalhousieStudents

Globe Laundry Ltd

50 Buckingham Street

G.W.SPRAGUE, Vice-Pres.

C. W. SPRAGUE, Pres.

The College Students’
Laundry

Telephone Sac, 714

Halifax,

 

Bob J ohnson’s

TWO BOBBER SHOPS
FIRST CLASS SERVICE

The Home of the Shingle
| MAJESTIC THEATRE

BUILDING |
and

Dalho

stam
housi
veloy

Corner GEORGE and
BARRINGTON STS.

Don’t Neglect Your Appearance

 

THU. FRI, & SAT.

THIS THU-FRI-SAT.

Tim McCoy
FIRST THREE DAYS

BEBE DANIELS

COMING SOON
‘‘Man :

IN
‘“Her Wild Oats”’
JOHN

MON.

‘The Mid-Night Rose’’

“Adventures

FOX NEWS—PATHE REVUE

 

22 Spring Garden Rd.

24 Sheets Writing Paper

Special 50c a Box

Connolly's Book Shop
487 BARRINGTON ST.
Opposite St. Paul's

March 9th, 1928

    
   
      

Lone
Eagle

A Mighty Epic of the Air

MARCH 13 and 14

Bebe Daniels

  

   

of the Range’’

with
Joan Crawford

 
       
    

NEXT WEEK

    
 

IN
e’s a Sheik’’

 
    

Woman & Sin’”’
LLEEN MOORE

 
   
   
  

  

aees YMORE

en a ‘Man Loves’’

 

     

 

PHEUS

TUE. & WED.

Internationally Famous

| LYDE DE PUTTI

 

of Mazie’’

 

2s

 

THE SONG SHOP tt.
for ANYTHING in

MUSIC

Canada

 

 

  

usie Stationery

    
   
    

ped with the Dalie Crest and 24 Enes to match.

    
   
   
  
  
   

Church

Nova Scotia Technical College |

ES
AND MINING

Engineering Diploma

Offers
ENGINEERING COURS
in
CIVIL, ELECTRICAL, MECHANICAL
To Dalhousie Students with
MODERN EQUIPMENT
Instructing Staff with Industrial

Tuition Fee $75.00 per year. Twenty-five scho

Experience
larships of $75.00 eac

Write or call for Calendar or advice.

F.H.S

EXTON, Pres.

 

 

 

COLWELL BROTHERS

Limited

453-457 Barrington Street
MEN’S HATS, CLOTHING, FURNISHINGS

AND LUGGAGE

HIGH CLASS GOODS AT MODERATE PRICES

 

  

    
    
  
 

COLLEGE STUDENT

The latest world news
The most college news.
The best Sport write-ups
The finest featuies.

 
  
    
  
 
  
 

AND

THE EVENING

ew eS ee

They will buy daily

THE HALIFAX HERALD

    
  
  
     
 
  
  
   
  
 
  
    
    
   
 
  
   
  
  
 
     
  
   
  

S WANT

  
   
   
   
    
  
 
 
     
  
  

MAIL

 
