  

 
  

    
 
  
   

 

  
  

| i

A

 

BK

- coast was a success.

‘After travelling 4,000 miles and having
had over two weeks when they were
unable to train, this is certainly an
 énviable record.

_ across Canada. At every
Truro, Nova Scotia toish Columbia, the boys were met by
_ smiling grads who proudly told of their

- 100 yard dash in the field day events,

|| OF ANY COLLEGE
| PAPER IN THE
||) MARITIMES”

 

}

 

i

B=; ~ vr * *
eS

~

— =

   
 
  
   
   

i iin, at a: rp ey. + ; a " oe < J "? y t 7 , bi a —
Are) ee + Ney rere ae Ee t) Ses ick Ale
hau! ae? ies * ee eee a . ’ wm i A
Ub eee) bey ae ek eens fle 4 . hy Niet
* ~ a. i‘ t ' a te d
+ "”) 4, ae gry #1
i : i 1
‘ - : , “
7 1 ‘ j r z
‘

RS HAD GREAT T

_ VISITED THIS CITY”, SAYS VANCOUVER MAN

By RALPH S. MORTON, Staff Correspondent

_ “There were many difficulties connected with bringing you boys out here,

i _ financial and other difficulties, but you can go back East feeling assured that the

people of Vancouver believe you to be the finest crowd of sports that have ever

visited this city,
-here—true sportsmanship—and we are

You play the game for the game's sake, and that is what we like

going to have Dalhousie back with us

again!’ thus declared Col. Dick Bell-Irving, promoter of the East vs. West series

at a farewell banquet in honour of the
Hotel Georgia a little over a week ago.

Other speakers among wh
British Columbia University _ professors spoke with the same _ praise
for the visiting team. Every one seemed
pleased. with the Dalhousiepirit and the Vancouver press told of
th

the wonderful impression the games had
-on local Rugby enthusiasts.

For this

reason if for no other the trip to the

The team didn’t have a dry field to

lay on in any one of their games.
eice they played in snow and _ slush
and once on a mud field in a blinding
drizzle of rain and snow. Always it was
cold. The last game was played in an
impenetrable fog. Yet on two different
occasions they tied British Columbia
Varsity, the crack young Western ruggers who hold the Pacific Coast Championship, and had the decided edge on
the play the best part of the time in
both games. The reps of Vancouver
and Victoria both defeated Dalhousie
because of their weight which became
twice-as effective on the slippery fields.

The trip united the Dalhousie family
1 station from
mioops, Brit
college days—how they had defeated
the Wanderers, or set a record for the

or flunked in a Latin exam, or played
some prank on an unsuspecting prof,
or told many an amusing story of the
“good old days.” ;

The Vancouver Dalhousie Association banqueted the Rugby team at
the Hotel Vancouver during their stay
in that city. Here, on the slopes of
the Pacific, 4000 miles from ‘‘The little
college’ leaders in the business and
professional life of the great Western
metropolis gathered to do honor to
their college team and to sing praises to
their Alma ‘Mater. It was most inspiring to see the New Dalhousians
listen to the stories of the Old Dalhousians with keen interest and to hear the
undergraduates tell the story of the
New Dalhousie to those who had left
“the little college’? 30, 40 or 50 years
ago. Dalhousie songs were sung and
ONE TWO THREE U-PI-DEE DALHOUSIE filled the banquet hall. _

At the the games the Dalhousie yell
rang out from the stadium oftener,
stronger and lustier than the British
Columbia Varsity yell with its near
2,000 students. In fact this very thing
was commented on in the Vancouver
papers. It was a prolonged Dalhousie
re-union from the time the football
squad left Halifax until they arrived
home nearly a month later.

 

The Advertising That Lasts—Dalhousie Year Book.

Opportunity

The room was as still as death. There
was a lamp on the table in the middle of
the room, but the corners were in darkness. Seated at the table was a man,
his head resting on his hands. He remained silent for a few moments while
the clock on the wall ticked loudly. He
lifted his head and looked at the clock.

“Opportunity knocks but once and he
ought to be here by midnight.”

Teerenptn he lowered his head to his
hands again. ,

Outside the snow was falling softly.

_A shadowy figure could be seen creeping
It paused before a

along the sidewalk.
house about half way down the street.

‘Light was streaming out of one of the
windows, through which a man could be
seen sprawled over a table. The g
figure (yes, it was Opportunity himself)
‘moved on toward the door where he

_ rapped. |

The ghostl

“Knock! Knock!”

At the first knock the man inside
_ started up, but subsided with a sigh at

th

om
‘9

 
  
   

   
  
   
  

  
     

 
 

amity knocks Dut once”
And so Opportunity passed him by;
Wa ce a rat 0 ‘we see that Opportunity
eo eee ies dope esiock twice,” ~ s
a 5 be 4 ae Fi atts. >. "

‘

 

aiuta. ©

 

   

whom were¥

    
  

    
     

he second. = : Pines
“Alas!” he sighed. “It is not Oppor
visiting Dalhousie Rugby squad at the

FOR YOU!

 

The glamour is gone. With
the passing of its first issue the
Dalhousie Year Book is an
established thing. With the
glamour fades much of the
enthusiasm, but the difficult-_
ies remain. Not only remain.
but for this year, at least, are
much greater, financially.

It is only by co-operation of
the whole university that they
may be overcome. The Year
belongs not alone to the staff
nor to the graduating class.
It is meant for all; but only by
receiving the support of all
can this ideal be attained.

If the Year Book is to contain
your interests. you must show
your interest in the YearBook.
Work for it yourself. Don’t
leave it to George. Co-operate
with him.

Co-operation is the great
axiom for success.
Co-operation means everybody.

Everybody means you.

EX-MED WRITES
FROM NORTH

os

The following letter was written to a
friend in Halifax by Dr. John Wickwire
who graduated in Medicine from Dalhousie last year and who shortly after
joined the Hudson Bay Expedition. The
letter contains some very interesting
anecdotes.

 

Nottingham Island,
October 2nd, 1927.

We are now awaiting the return of the
Stanley. Perhaps it would be more
correct to say looking forward to the
return of the Stanley, for few of our
bunch are doing any waiting; everyone
has been very busy.

‘Our trip from Halifax to Nottingham
covered a period of 17 days. On an
average the weather was favorable.
Fog caused us to drift or run at a very
low speed for many hours, sometimes an
entire day. Sometimes when we were
in open water we could have made better
if it hadn’t been for the Larch, which
had a speed of only a little over half
that of our boat. When in ice’ fields
the Larch had to detour for miles.

Ice of some description was constantly in view after we reached the Strait
of Belle Isle. Along the Labrador
coast the ice was chiefly in the form of
iceburgs. It was interesting to view
these huge masses of ice. Some of
them appear as pure white castles.
One burg | remember, had taken the
identical shape of a light-house; another
appeared just as a pure white ocean
liner—at a distance, it seemed that
every detail was fulfilled.

As we approached, and during our
passage through Hudson Strait, the ice
Was commonly found floating in ‘‘fields”’
of a square mile, or square miles in area.
Fortunately the ice which composed
these moving ‘“‘ice fields’’ was seldom as
firm nor in as large masses as the individual burgs.

_ Considerable excitement was caused
on board when a polar bear was sighted
on one of the iceburgs, some distance
ahead. We could see him, with his
nose in the air, rotating his head from
side to side, seemingly more amazed
than alarmed. The Major fired with
a 303 but missed. When the bear heard
the snap of the rifle, his attitude of
amazement seemed to change immediately into one of extreme terror. . He
raced to the other side of the burg,
jumped into the water, and began swimming rapidly away from us. The
major succeeded in wounding the animal
twice, but the fatal shot, which pierced
his brain, was fired from the deck of the
Larch.

_ The fgllowing day after we reached the

Jisland, the ‘‘Moth” plane made a cir
(Continued on Page 2.)

    
  
  

| hockey circles, acting as referee.

  

   

 

      

SE es ee

  

HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA, JANUARY 13th, 1928

RIP

 

«OLD GRADS STAGE RE-UNIONS

_ “BINEST CROWD OF SPORTS THAT HAVE EVER

Intercollegiate Hockey
Meeting

TWO LEAGUE GAMES
FOLLOWED BY SKATING

A meeting of the Halifax City Intercollegiate Hockey league was held last
Thursday in the N.S. Technical College.
Representatives from the four teams in
the league, Dalhousie, Kings, Tech and
St. Mary's were present and a schedule
of games were drawn up for the season.
The league has a strong executive and
everything points to an active year in
hockey. It was decided at the meeting
to run off a double series of games
between the four teams. The games
will be played in the Forum, where an
excellent sheet of ice is assured. The
four teams will participate each scheduled night and thus the fans will be
treated to a double header each time.

The first game of the season will be
played next Thursday, Jan. 19, when

 

.|St. Mary’s will meet Tech and Dal will

stack up against Kings. After the
games the ice will be open for skating
for one hour. The fee for the night’s
enjoyment is very moderate, thirty-five
cents being the charge.

HARRY BUTLER AS COACH

Manager Murray states that there is
a great deal of likely looking material
turning out for the practices and with
a hit of whipping into shape a strong
panies should be developed. The service
of Harry Butler have been obtained
as coach for the Dalhousie squad. Mr.
Butler is well-known as he played good
hockey for the Crescents for a number
of years. Injuries forced him to retire
from the game but he is still active in
Under
his guidance the yellow and _ black
teams should make its mark this season.

a

NOTICE

All photos for Arts students
for the Year Book must be taken
before Friday, January 20. Make
application to Evelyn Burns or
Gwen Fraser.

 

 

  

Pancouber

   

CHARACTERS:

Winfield, Aubrey Tupper.

SCENE: A hotel sitting-room in a small
town in the Rockies.

AT RISE: The audience is expectant.

The rising curtain reveals Bill Winfield,
Manager Dalhousie Football Team, and

Kelly Morton, Bill

Aubrey Tupper, Captain. There is

no occasion for disappointment: the

greatest of Dalhousie’s cheerleaders will
appear shortly.

TUPPER: Look here, Winfield, what
are you going to do? It’s Christmas
Eve, our train wrecked by a snowslide,
hundreds of miles from Vancouver, and
we're due to eat dinner tomorrow with
the Mayor! Stranded in this one-mountain town! The boys are beginning
to cut loose;in a few n.inutes they'll be
painting the town black and gold, and,
first thing we know, our team will be
drop-kicking behind iron bars. The
boys say you're to get busy—they want
to eat turkey and plum-pudding with
the Mayor of Vancouver, not mountaingoat and snow pudding in this buffalo
wallow! Whatever you're going to do,
do it pronto (as these Westerners say).
The boys threaten to kick.

WINFIELD: Kick? When did they
learn to kick? But say, Aubrey, what
can | do? There'll be no trains out of
here for a couple of days—east or west.
Why, I'll even have to break my promise
to write the woman twice daily! I can’t
hire taxis, have to keep the bill down,
you know.

T: Keep her low-w! Keep her low-w
That's that man Godsoe for you!!
I've managed a team. Say, Godsoe even
thinks that the Golden Gate is getting
more than your guarantee on game
receipts! Anyway, taxis are out of the
question: the roads are impassable;
second, this hole-in-the-mountain town
has no taxis. There's no conceivable
escape, Bill, we'll admit, but that’s

   
  

your lookout,

W: x¢m i hear you fellows talk I
thank heaven, Lm not managing the
Girls’

V

SSeS

eee en nnn e eee... ae

—A Belated Christmas Play—
By Andrew Olding Hebb

 

   
 

 
 
 

  
 

DAL vs KINGS

  

The Dalhousie hockey team
plays its first game next Thursday night in the Forum, when
they meet the Kings aggregation.
A double header and an hours
skating afterwards should be
inducement enough to _ bring
out the majority of the students.
To turn out a good hockey team
the boys need all the support
they can get and it is up to the
students to be on hand next
Thursday night to give it to them.

LET’S ALL GO!

S. C. M. Conference

From December 29 to January 4 the
Quadrennial Students Volunteer Movement met at Detroit. Four thousand
students, from all parts of the world,
came there to attend the conference.
There were representatives from Japan,
Korea, China, India, Egypt, Persia,
South America and from all the countries of Europe; and an interesting feature was the addresses given by the students and missionaries of the Eastern
countries. They spoke to the American
and European members of the conditions
and needs of their countries. They
showed how the East had changed and
how consequently the Westerner’s manner of approach must change if they
wished to do any good. They explained
that the Eastern people do not wish
to loose their culture, nor have it forcibly replaced by that of the West and
that when teachers come from the West
they must live by their doctrines if they
would have the East adopt them. They
also told of the crying need of workers
among the lepers and of teachers in
those countries where only ten per
cent receive any education. Besides
these students there were also addresses
by such noted speakers as Richard
Roberts and Sherwood Eddie. The
character of the whole conference was distinctly missionary but so varied were the
interests of the many countries represented that questions of world wide interest
were discussed. The first impression
one was of the enormous size of the
conference. That it was a Big thing
and a Great thing. And so it was but
its greatness was a result of the second
Goaly to be discerned—its unity.

hose who were there were one in their
purpose and one in their ideal. They
forgot for the time the differences in
their creed, the prejudices of their
race, and turned all their energies, all
their almost limitless enthusiasm to the
pursuit of the aim of the conference—the
finding of a true philosophy of life and a
sympathetic understanding between nations.

Or Bust

  

         
      
  

  

 

 

Vancouver trip. Ronald Fielding and
the rest of us could never have done it
without that slogan of Morton's.

(Enter Mo-ion. Dressed as cheerleader:
skull-cap, natty black and gold 4lazer,
white-flannel trousers, and carrying Megaphone.)

There’s the man!

 

N.S eee

   
  

   

MA] Ha

   

MARITIME

  

    
  

THE OLDEST
COLLEGE PAPER
IN AMERICA

     
   

      

TEAM TO TOUR WEST

N. F.C. U.S. SPONSORS LENGTHY TRIP — HOWSE
TO BE DALHOUSIE’S REPRESENTATIVE

 

 

 

 

Ernest M. Howse, who has been appeinted as Dalhouste’s refpresentatize
on the Maritime Debating
team

DAL EMPLOYEES
HAVE BIG TIME

ANNUAL DINNER AND
BALL BIG SUCCESS

The Dalhousie Employees’ Social and
Benefit Club held its annual New Year's
dinner and ball on Monday, January 2.
‘Thanks to the strenuous efforts of the
committee in charge, the function was a
complete success from start to finish.

About forty people sat down to a
delicious turkey dinner, in the Murray
Homestead, presided over by Professor
Copp, representing Dr. Mackenzie, who
had been called out of town. Toasts
were proposed by the president of the
club, Mr. Sykes:

The King.

The President, responded to by Professor Copp.

Dalhousie, responded to by the Gaszelte representative.

A feature of the evening was the presentation made to Mr. MacLeod, wellknown figure to students at the Forrest
Building, in recognition of his birthday,
date unknown. Mr. MacLeod thanked
the Club in a short but clever speech.

Readings and short speeches from
other members were also enjoyed.

The big event of the evening, however,
was the ball. The gymnasium never
looked better, and the crowd that attended spent the happiest of happy evenings.

 

 

Handsome is as| lhe program was so arranged as to

handsome does! Listen now Kelly, you- ! give everyone a dance, old and young.

‘ve got something heavier on your hands
than coining slogans.
ceivable way of getting to that Vancouver Christmas dinner tomorrow, it’s
up to you to conceive an inconceivable
way. You brought us this far—it’s
up - you. Quick, man—what do you
say

MORTON: Vancouver or Bust!

T: It'll be the author of that slogan
who'll bust, at that! Where did you
leave the team? What are the boys
up to now?

M: Do you want to know? The boys
have decided that it’s Christmas Eve—
in my opinion, quite properly. But
the elevation, I think, has affected their
heads. First of all, Bunker, Murphy
and Ab Smith are practicing the threelegged race in anticipation of the Vancouver winter sports. Bill Wickwire is
trying to explain to a man from the
Okanagan Valley how it happens that
Kelowna, B. C. is not the centre of the
fruit belt. Joe Dunlop is doing the
four-forty on Main Street, and anticipates doing some experimental theology with the forward line—he's going
to put the scrim against the local mountain to see if great faith will move the
thing. Did I tell you about Langstroth? George thinks that two goes
into four. twice and nothing over is the
Great Divide! He laughed when I
tried to explain that it was the borderline between B. C. and the States.
Some of the boys I haven't seen all
evening. Say, there are some _ nice
kids in this town—one fell hard for
George MacLeod, on the sidewalk.
He thought she was going to tackle him
and dodged. There was one little girl

 

theerleader? Where’s | 2Ppealed to me—

(Continued on page 3)

h ere were fox-trots, lancers, waltzes,

There is no con-| polkas, paul-jones galore.

There can be no doubt that the Dalhousie Employees Social and. Benefit
Club is doing splendid work in fostering
an esprit de corps among the employees.

+

Debater |

  

 

The Maritime Debate is the first
debating project sponsored by the National Federation of Canadian University
Students. It is planned with the object
in view of giving the public, and students
in particular an opportunity of meeting
and hearing real Maritimers. It is
hoped that next year a Western team
will travel East.

The personnel of the Maritime Team
has been selected with the greatet
caution. At Dalhousie, the Intercolleglate Committee consisting of Dean
J. E. Read, and Prof. ‘Angus L. MacDonald, Law; and Dr. George E. Wilson
selected Ernest M. Howse, the leader of
the Intercollegiate Team of last year.
Hagen Fulton is the choice of the Univ ersity of New Brunswick, while Elbert
Paul is Acadia’s representative. Each
member is not only a polished speaker
and debater but is very active in college
activities. ;

Ernest M. Howse comes from the
home of a clergyman now at Bay Roberts, Newfoundland. Howse has attended a college in Saskatchewan and another in Ontario. He has taught for
one year; he has also been in the Mission
Field. Last year he came to Dalhousie
and was made leader of the Intercolleglate Debating Team.

This year he is President of the
Sociology Club and a member of the
executive of Sodales. Debating Society.
His varied experience in life, make Howse
a good choice for this Maritime Debating Tour.

As a speaker he is convincing, direct,
decisive. He retaliates with unflinching
force. He is a veritable firebrand. He
is a master of subtle satire and strikes
where he aims.

Dalhousie has made a good choice.
The Gazette goes on record as ‘wishing
this Maritime Team the greatest success
in its tour. It is to be hoped that next
year we will have the pleasure of we!coming a Western team here in the East.

The National Federation of Canadian
University Students or N. F. C. U. S.
as it is now commonly known, came into
existence last March following the recommendation of a conference of representatives of the various Canadian
Universities, held at Montreal Dec.
1926.. This new organization is the
representative national body of Canada’s
18,000 university students and includes
among its affiliated colleges the following: Universities of British Columbia,
Alberta, Saskatchewan, Manitoba, Western Ontario, Toronto, McMaster,
Queen’s, Ontario Agricultural College,
McGill, Bishop’s University, University
of Montreal, MacDonald College, Acadia, New Brunswick, Mount Allison and
Dalhousie.

The object of the N. F. C. U.S. is set
forth in the constitution as follows:

‘‘To promote in eyery way possible
a better understanding among all students;'a greater degree of co-operation
between all Canadian Universities for
the promotion of National Interests and
to provide a means for developing international relationships with. student
groups in other countries.”

This is indeed an admirable undertaking, this Young Canada mover
It will enkindle and sponser a love of
country and countrymen in the growing
Canadian. The meeting of the youthful East and the youthful West! The
result? Understanding, Broad National Consciousness. This is indeed an
admirable undertaking.

LOOKING OVER THE FOOTBALL

SEASON AND THE PLAYERS
(With Jack Whalen)

 

A summary of the doings of the Dalhousie Senior Football team in the
games played during the regular football season discloses a record that might
be called enviable. In all the team
played eleven games before they left
for the Pacific coast. Seven of these
were City League fixtures, one was for
the Maritime Championship and the
remaining three | were exhibition
games. In more than half of these
games the opposing team was unable to
cross the Dal line, five of them were won
decisively by large scores, and five were
drawn.

The scoring records show that the
Tigers scored 66 points against 17 scored
by the opposing teams. Of their 66
points, converted trys gave 35, unconverted trys 27 and a field goal 4. Their
line was crossed five times by their
opponents but only one of the trys
against them was converted. On the
other hand the Dal men went over their
opponent’s line sixteen times, converted
seven of their trys and notched up one
field goal in the final game.

The story of the winning of the City
League Title is the story of two one-sided

battles with the United Services in which
the Tigers emerged. victorious by the
scores of 11-0 and 13-3, and of five
hectic struggles with the Wanderers.
In four of these games the teams left
the field with the score tied and in the
fifth the Tigers came through with a
decisive win to cop the championship.
The games ended as follows, 0-0, 3-3,
3-3, OO and 11-5.

Never in the history of the Halifax City
Rugby League has the schedule been
prolonged so by the inability of the two
contending teams to settle the question
of superiority. As game after game
ended with neither team having an
advantage in the scoring column the
interest in the result increased so that
when the final game came around
excitement was at a high pitch. The
story of the deciding game was the final
chapter in a series of games that made
history in local Football circles. “Had
the fifth game ended other than it did
the result would have been truly tragic
because all through the league the Tigers
showed that they were the better team

(Continued on page 3)

YOUAHAPPY NEW YEAR

 
 
   
 
 
 

 

 
     
  
  
  
  
  

(Founded 1869)
_ FRED C. JENNINGS

*

Sports Editor
J. W. WHALEN

_ Exchange Editor.
KATHERINE HANIFEN
Associaie Editors.

. BEN GUSS
W. GORDON DUSTAN
MARGARET ELLS

Circulation Manager
S. W. ARCHIBALD ~
Business Manager.

RALPH S. MORTON
52 Quinpool Rd. ~
Phone Sac. 304

Subscription Rate : $1.00 per year

Ghe New Vea

! _ The curtain has descended upon 1927 and has reascended on a

new act in the play of life—a play which goes on and on, ever re
-——s peating, yet ever changing. The Christmas scene with its burst of
triumphant glory brought the dying act to a fitting climax and the

scene has changed once more. We start again to play our parts in

_ the different events as the play unfolds.

~~: Life is an odd performance. We are, at one and the same time,

' actors, spectators, critics, yes—and press agents. As the play

unfolds itself we assume different roles,—hero or heroine, villain

or villainess; comedian or comedienne. The performance itself is
a weird mixture of comedy and drama, tragedy and farce, pro__- gressing concurrently and inextricably interwoven. But it is plain
that, as the plot progresses, the role of each will become according
to the desire or ambition of the player, within certain limits governed
by the Stage Director. Many will start with minor parts, but with
perseverence will rise to the heights of leading roles. Others will

: play minor parts from beginning to end. Many will start well

. established in leading roles but, found wanting, they will slip into

obscurity. And so the play goes on.

a: Everyone must take part. Each must play till his exit comes.
Each will be rewarded according to his merit and his judges are
his fellow-actors who are experienced in the scenes that are unfolding.

ee May the act of 1928 be one of advancement for us, so that when
_ the curtain descends we shall be ready to take our place in a higher
role when the curtain reascends.

ee To its readers The Gazette extends sincere wishes for a bright

p and prosperous New Year.

P

pos — Ghe Vancouver Trip

*

 
  
      

bY
\

he journey of the Dalhousie Rugby squad to the western
shores of Canada is now past history, but it is history that will
hold a place in the memory of many Dalhousians and many of the
people of British Columbia. Although our team did not come
gut on top in the matter of scores we feel sure that they gave ex_hibitions worthy of the effort made to send them to the coast.
After all ‘‘The play’s the thing’, and an exhibition of fair clean
_ sportsmanship will live in the memory long after the details of scores
_. made have been forgotten.
ate _ The sponsors of the enterprise deserve great credit for the
success of the undertaking. Those who contributed financially
__ orin any other way, deserve the sincere thanks of Dalhousie students.
Many old Dalhousians had the opportunity of meeting the squad
as they passed through the different centres of population and the
number andenthusiasm evinced at these meetings is a strong in+ dication of the sentiments that the alumni of Dalhousie have for
their Alma Mater.
ae f, The mixing of students from two universities should have an
effect upon Dalhousie and U. of B. C.; linking these two bodies more
closely together. Although the expense of such a trip is great, it
can be safely said that the benefits to accrue should justify the

é

expenditure.
oe Sodales

—- Of :- all the extra-curricular activities about Dalhousie, Sodales
can be pointed to as the one from which the greatest number of

students may obtain the greatest benefits. Open as it is to the
whole student body each student has an opportunity to participate
~ ‘either actively as a debater or passively as a listener. The policy
| _ of favoring extemporaneous speaking on the debated subject after
| _ the main contestants have completed their argument gives all
| _ present a chance to join in the discussion and to air their views.

 
 
  
 

= let,

‘ The benefits to be obtained from an active participation in the

_ debating society cannot be overestimated. Everyone, at some time

| or another, is called upon to express his ideas upon some subject.

| _ A person may have many potent ideas but without the power to

_ express his thoughts, those ideas will remain dormant and unfertile.

_ Facility of speech can only be obtained by practice and the oppor
_ tunity for that practise lies within the reach of all at the meetings
of the Sodales Debating Society.

Ray The discussion of different subjects leads to the awakening and
the spread of ideas which should increase the breadth of the student
mind, It would be well for the executive of Sodales to choose as

their subjects of debate, matters pertaining to university life or

_ matters in which the average university student is interested. This

| eK has been the aim of the Dalhousie Debating Society and the result
of their efforts has been evidenced in the keen interest that has

__ been shown in debating, especially this year.
zh wees possible a number of debates should be arranged with city

ims. Dalhousie has good opportunity in this respect as it

_ should be possible to arrange debates with Kings College, St. Mary’s

and Nova Scotia Technical College. If this idea were carried out

___ still greater interest would be developed in debating and our chances

of winning pete in the regular intercollegiate series would be
much enhanced.

____In the second term of the year Dalhousie is scheduled to meet
Ace dia and it is necessary that a great deal of work be done before
_ a team can be chosen and prepared to represent Dalhousie. If

outside debates could be arranged with the institutions in Halifax
great benefits should be acquired. .

All things considered Sodales is an organization which occupies

important place in the activities of Dalhousie. It is the breeding

ind of university opinion and the melting pot of ideas. It is a

udent who sees his opportunity and takes advantage of all

s can do for him.

   
   
 

   
    
 
   
     
  
   
  
  
   
  

.

 

Moncton, N. B.,
Jan. 2, 1928.

I APOLOGIZE
Editor of the Gazette:

Dear Sir: ‘A Senior’. in the last issue
of the Gazette before Christmas, has
severely censured the views expressed
in, ‘‘What Price Gore?” published several weeks earlier.

I wish to apologize for having said that
the Allies transformed a million men into
rotten meat for a mistaken ideal. I
wish to retract and say that without
doubt these men saved the women of the
world from desecration, the children
from mutilation, and us from rowing
slave galleys, dying under the lash in the
Cape Breton coal mines, Brittania,
John Bull, and La Belle France trampled
down from their exalted seats among the

Tribal Gods, and us drinking Piltzner.

beer.

However, we must remember that
there are always two sides to a question.
The German people are, on the whole
a much more industrious and right
living people than we are. Then along
came the philosopher Nietzsche, a man
of actually feminine sexual reactions—
he was sexually attracted to big, strong,
dominating, ‘he-men’—and preached the
philosophy of the Superman—the man
who was mentally stronger and physically able to dominate his fellow men.
It was the Superman's duty and destiny
to take the reins of power by any means
necessary and to rule the weaker. It
was the duty of the weaker man to
submit to and serve the superman.

The whole world were attracted by
these doctrines, for we all imagine ourselves Napoleons and every asylum can
produce some who are absolutely certain
that they are Buonaparte The ruling
class of Germany, with their industry and
right living, had about the best claim to
the title of Superman—and so the Great
War: the world began killing one another
in the dispute over who was the best man
while Christ in despair wept bitter tears
over the world which he had fruitlessly
tried to save.

An impartial view of the whole situation ts too large for us to grasp. However, there is a similar situation on a
smaller scale which is worth examining:

Two Frenchmen of the eighteenth
century, Ivan and Henri, with their
respective lady loves, Olga and Germanie, lived in a small settlement. There
were grand dames in the village, and
each of these two thought herself the
premiere female. Germanie, after much
cogitation, decided that the poor deluded Ivan would be better off if Olga
were put out of the running and Ivan
brought under the bounteous sway of
Germanie. Then she said to Henri:
‘This foolish Ivan has been insulting me,
saying that Olga is more clever and beautiful than I. As a gentleman, you
ought not to stand for such talk’’. Thereafter Henri began to address Ivan in a
quarrelsome sort of tone and Ivan
began to reply in the same way. On
hearing this, Germanie became apparently quite enraged. The customary
way of settling such arguments was a
duel, so Henri stepped on Ivan's toes
and then laughed in his face. The
only answer could be a duel. Germanie and Olga polished up the swords,
sang the praises of their heroes, imimpressed on them that they must
either kill or be killed, and sent them
forth to battle. Henri’s ‘seconds’s
objected to the way in which Ivan’
seconds were armed. The argument
soon turned into a fight, and the whole
party joined in. Ivan was soon put out
of commission, but the fight kept
merrilly on. The fight ended with prac
tically all of Henri’s party in a peo

DALHOUSIE iM ND etn wae

Letters To The Editor

     

tal position, and Ivan’s friends not far
from it. Then, instead of picking up
their dead and going their way like
even gentleman, they proceeded to
rifle their adversaries’ pockets for money
to pay the hospital bills, gave them a
thorough kicking in the ribs and the
rest is not yet history.

This duelling was a common enough
affair in old France. What has caused
it to die out? It certainly was not by
lauding the duellists to the skies as
heroes and kissing their wounds. No,
it was by everyone telling them that
they were a pair of fools, to be carving
each other up like murderers.

That is the only way we shall ever
really get rid of war—we will have to
jeer it off the stage of life.

Of course the general public (of any
nation) will reply, ‘‘What’s the use—
our soldiers had to defend the women and
children of the world from this horde of
barbarians who set out to destroy
civilization.” Take, for example, the
situation in India. If the Indians gathered together sufficient arms and forces
to stage a successful rebellion—as they
have every reason to do—against the
virtually martial law under which they
crawl, then Brittania would call for
volunteers, the first contingent would
bravely join up, not knowing just what
it all is about but ready to fight like
heroes for their country. Within a
few months the thing would have grown
to such proportions that the only way of
settling it would be a fight to the finish
and by that time we should be fighting
for our National institutions, for Democracy, Humanity and Lord only knows
what not. We should have to either
murder or be murdered. Why could
India not have been given the selfgovernment to which she has a right?
Why? Because we are Supermen who
must rule the weak. It is our duty,
whether they like it or not. Besides,
the honor of Brittania must be upheld—
‘*The sun shall never set on the corners
of the flag we'll always hold.”

Enough of such talk. The old traditions must be kept alive at all costs:
So come, all ye Christian Nations,
victor and vanquished, come then, let
us go forth singing praises to kiss our
heroes’ wounds. But make haste, for
already they begin to rot:...and stink
....Quickly... All will be lost if the
world sees heroes in that light.

Respectfully,

Laurence E. Coffey.

Idle Prattle

 

 

33 LeMarchant St.,
Halifax, N.S.
The Editor,
The Dalhousie Gazette,

Dear Sir:—As one of the Dalhousians
of thirteen years ago I wish to express
my appreciation of the letter signed
“A Senior” in your edition of Dec.
2nd, 1927.

As one who was Editor-in-Chief of the
Dalhousie Gazette for two terms, who
served in France and knows the spirit of
Dalhousie, I can only say that the
effusion of one ‘‘L. E. C.” in the Gazette
of Nov. 18 must have. been the idle
prattle of a thoughtless man. Please
give this as wide publication as you did
his comments on the war memorial.

Yours for Dalhousie,
J. S. ROPER,

Law ‘13.
Arts ‘10.

THE MAILMAN

They were a peculiar pair, a most

peculiar; in fact I, who have seen a| “Garge”’ was ignoring

goodly number of nature’s oddities,
have yet to see more unique, grotesque,
easy going, soft headed men than Montaque Marmaduke Bobbit (his parents
had drained the Biblical supply) and
“Garge’”’, his son. *

Montaque carried the mail for a 200
mile coast line. His father had carried
it before him and his grand father before
that. His ability to speak French
patois and his inability to read the
mail under his charge were his sole
qualifications.

One day we were making a long run
between calls which brought us quite a
distance out into the Straits and in
the neighborhood of a number of uncharted reefs and breakers. It was
blowing a smart fall breeze and the low
lying land inside looked blue with the
cold. We had our mainsail and foresail reefed but still kept the engine
going so that the forty foot boat was
careening along at a swift gait, dashing
the foam crested seas into fine spray
which blew lightly in over the win’ard
side. ‘‘Garge’’ was for'ard lying at
full length under the jumbo on the
weather side, gazing at the thin jump
stay as it buried itself in the green seas,
then rising to shake off the water as the
boat tossed her dainty head, only to be
plunged fiercely in again.

I was sitting aft beside the old man
who was steering with one hand while
methodically filling his pipe with the
other. Every now and then as the
boat settled in the trough a sea would
break over the stern and run into the
engine house. This disturbed the old
man who shouted:

“Garge, Garge bye, come and pump,
now!’ The call produced no effect on
“Garge,”’ however. He still continued
to gaze at the seas leaping to spray his
face with their salt bith, At half
minute intervals the old man would

repeat,

droning as monotonously as’ is.

a fog alarm. At last he perceived that
i him and it
“cached ‘is ire’’ to use his phrase.
“Garge”’, he shouted shrilly, ‘‘pump,
now!” All was quiet.

““Garge! Pump!’’—a racous note.

At least the boy cast a mild, inquisitive glance towards his father and a
question was borne aft by the breeze
which made me smile. ‘‘What fer
fadder’’? was the blissful inquiry.

This evidently was too much for the
skipper who made no motion to reply
but somberly sucked his old pipe while
mumbling to himself.

After quite a while the sea was getting
rougher and I asked the old man where
was the “Drowned Man” a breaker
some where in the vicinity.

“I done know, boy,”
“I guess we'll see ’en soon’’.

His hopefully surmise was scarcely
a minute old when suddenly about a
boat’s length astern, with a deafening
roar and fearful crash, which once heard
can never be forgotten, agigantic mass
of cream fringed threatening breaker
rose to its appalling height, hung for a
moment, then dashed itself asunder
with a hideous scream. ‘‘My....”
but Montaque blandly interrupted me.

“Well, well, we must a gone pretty
handy to he boy!’’ The Lard looks
after the sailors sir, das what he do!
Garge, will you pump now?”

—G. C. W.

he replied,

MEDICAL DINNER

   
   

The Dalhousie Stud Medical
ociation will hold a & r at the
Green Lantern on Tees “Vanuary 17,
at 6:30 p.m. This will é* place

of the usual fortnight.., meeting. Dr.
H. B. Atlee will addiess the meeting.
We do not know his subject but it will
be interesting nevertheless. It always

  

Ex-Med. Wirites
From North

(Continued from page 1)

 

cuit of the island. They succeeded in
locating our present camp site.

Unloading took two weeks. It was
very strenuous work, for as you know,
we had no facilities on the shore for
unloading the surf-boats and scow.
everyone, Engineers, Pilots, Machinists,
Operators and even Doctors turned in at
stevedoring. We were pretty sore and
stiff for the first few days, but these
hardy young men soon became toughened to it. They would step on’ the
heels of many stevedors now.

Nottingham Island is largely composed of solid rock arranged in mountainous ridges. Between these ranges,
however, you often find level spots,
which sometimes appear as a roadway,
but, more often, they are found in the
vicinity of a lake. Here the ground 1s
soft, in summer; it supports a short
‘coarse grass and moss.

Our camp-site is situated in one of
these low and relatively level spots,
fairly well sheltered. Here the land has
a gentle slop toward the cave which
gives it a natural drainage. The moving
of a Fordson tractor and drag has removed a large amount of the grass and
moss: thus allowing the ground to dry
considerably. Just here the earth is of
the nature of a course sand or fine gravel
with 2-3 inches of black loam over this.

We have been able to catch about
300 pounds of game since arriving here.
There are fish in the lakes, some resemble trout, others salmon. We have
caught several dozen by means of nets
(the ordinary long net). One chap
shot 3 black ducks. At present a kind
of partridge called Ptarmigan, is quite
plentiful. We have been able to get
about 30 of these birds with shot guns.
They are covered with feathers from
bill to tow nails. Feathers are chiefly
white, with the odd spot of brown.

We have seen cariboo tracks in low
places, but never the animal yet, but
we have hopes.

A fox came to the door of our temporary residence (Mr. Ashton and
myself) and as the door was partly open
he stepped inside. I  scatied! him out
but he was part English and persisted in
inspecting our dwelling, so he ventured
inside again; this time I dropped my
shirt between him and the door (for |
was preparing for bed). This had the
desired result and he ran from the door
into the room. I closed the door, Mr.
Ashton was soon awakened by the little
animal scrambling here and there at a
terrible rate, over a bunch of boxes
that are in the end of this building.
When he realized that he had been
trapped, he seemed to become terrified
and made for the window, then back to
the door and round and round the room.
I laughed myself sore at him then
began to wonder if he might not take a
lunch off of my bare ankles, if his excitement continued, so | opened the
door again. , They are rapidly turning
from a greyish-white to-a pure White,
which is their winter color.

There are many things that would
probably interest you. Perhaps a brief
sketch which I made as a report on the
Eskimos, on out shores would interest
you. I’m enclosing a copy. This is
only the summer condition of the Eskimos. The real Eskimos life we shall

|soon see—snow houses, dog-trains, ice
fishing, etc.

The temperature is just ranging
around freezing. At night it drops to
about 27 degrees F and rises to 32-33
degrees F in mid-day. We have had
considerable foggy weather. You will
notice what a small range there is between night and day temperatures. At
present the weather conforms pretty
well to a late November in Nova Scotia.

I hope that I have written on some
things which interest you.

Your sincere friend,
John Wickwire.

T TREASURE

reasure’s the gold of the setting

moon,
And the first, faint star that shines;
The din, little roads where twilight goes;
The old, sweet song of the pines;
The vision, caught for a moment's space,
Of beauty, white as a young birch tree;
My treasure’s the fragrant soul of earth
And there my heart must be.
My treasurer's a dream that never dies,
[In a land where spring has trod— &
A dream that sees in a hidden bud &
The great, white heart of God; :
The raving winds from the far-away, ~.
With tales of the mystic tides— %
My treasure’s the night with his cloak
of sleep,

And there my heart abides.

My

January 13th, 1928

Neen en

 

Donald “Bud” Smith, '27 is employed
on the staff of the Saint John TelegraphJournal in the capacity of provincial
editor.

* ek * r

Dalhousians will be glad to hear that
Jack Lewis, B. A., '27, who was forced
to retire from his medical studies last
term due to sickness, is rapidly recovering. At present he is at his home in
Sydney, C. B.

x * &

In spite of leap year, Friday and the
number thirteen the Lawyers expect to
have a real time tonight when the Annual Law Dance will be staged in the
University gymnasium.

x * *

Dr. Gordon Bruce, '25, was a visitor
to the city this week, on his way to
Oxford where he will take a course in
opthalmology.

* *- +

Dr. H. H. Pierce, ’26, is practising in
Morganroth, West Virginia where he
holds the position of public health officer.

———____.4—_—_______.

GLEE CLUB NOTES

 

The first rehearsal for the Glee Club
orchestra will be held in the Munro
Room, 2.30 P.M., Saturday, Jan. 14.
It is hoped that all students who play
any musical instrument will attend, as
the director, Mr. Singer, is anxious to
start work as soon as possible.

Organization of a college band will be
started immediately in order to have a
presentable band at the football games
next fall.

The program for the next show is not
completed; anyone who wishes to do
anything to help out would do a great
favour by getting in touch with one of
the officers.

The play for the next show will be a
one-act comedy, Brothers in Arms, by
Merrill Dennison. This is a Candiana
play by a Canadian author and if one
may judge by rehearsals, wil] be generally enjoyed. It is being produced
under the capable direction of Forrest
Musgrave.

—$ _—____4.—

NOW YOU WRITONE

In acanoe

Beneath the sky—
Me and you.

In a canoe

Built for two,
There we'd lie—
In a canoe

_. Beneath-the.sky. so. sek ore!

Kiss you?
Not I!
Would you
Kiss you
If you
Were I?
Kiss you?
Not I! !

Little Benny’s Note
Book

The other day I thot the wurld wos
kumin toanend. The teacher bold me
out i lost me nickle me mother wooden
give me a kreem puff, bill jones got a
new suit an evything wos goin rong my
hart wos feelin hevy an it jus seemed the
wurld wos kumin to an end an me hart
wood brake eny minnit an me: mother
ast me wots the matter an i tole her wots
the use of this wurld enyway look it all
the peeple that has 2 wurry an git
dissappointid an feel terribull bad an i
wos feelin bad meself so i sed i wisht the
wurld wood kum 2 another end by a
flud an me muther lafft an she sed jes
becoz u feel bad u think this is a bad
wurld besize this wurld aint for u alone

 

 

ur gonna be a conseeted boy if u think

that way i sed evy buddy is conseeted
the same way—Y do evybuddy rite

capital i insted of little i wen they tok

about their own self and rite a little u
wen they rites to sumbuddy els—wich
oll shoze that the hole wurld is conseeted
ihe same way in every way anjit makes
no diffrents an me muther lafft an_she
sed sumthin bout point ov u.

 

A new shipment of jumbo knit sweaters in |
Dalhousie Colors just arrived. Get yours now. |

SWEATERS

Our new fall stocks of Hockey Boots and Skates
are now opened up for your inspection.

|
|
|'SKATES and BOOTS—

 

 
     

'
VANCOUVER
i 10 vou? What for?

Attracted me. I was foolish
enough to int her out to Kelly
MacLean. I guess men with the same
shade hair admire the same type of
women. Kelly was fast and forward,
and, well, I’m here. The women are
worth looking over. oe « ‘Pve admired B. C. women mysel foc some time
and I tell you as we move west I noticed
a marked improvement. I’m anxious
to see what ravishing beauty Vancouver
will produce.

W: Now, you're getting back to the
point! I pass the whole responsibility
to you—Vancouver tomorrow!

M: But that’s impossible; don't be
unreasonable Bill. (Morton's face
denly assumes a thoughtful expression,
as though he is thinking—the audience is
positive it cannot last long.) 1 have it
boys! Let's think our way out of this
difficulty, we're college students aren’t
we? Let’s see now, one, two,—well,
I’m not sure how long I’ve been at
Dalhousie, but altogether the three of
us must have put in about twenty years,
eh? Twenty years higher education—
surely a little problem like this won’t
Hi | hold us, if we attack it in student fashion.
| Boys, we'll think our way out of this
village.

W: Morton, do you know, I believe
you've had an idea!

T: Looks like it. You should wear
Campbell's helmet, Kelly. You act as
chairman—your legal training, you
know.

M: Allright. Now boys, bring your
education to bear on this problem.
| | Suppose we start with law? The law,

as I understand it from a reading of all
the cases, offers us no help.

|| T: Perhaps we should call in Mit| | chell.

M: Now if Ben Guss, the law librarian, were here he might have told
us how the Intercollegiate Debating

   
 

   

   

      

‘3
a

 
  
 
   

 

escape into the wilds of the Bronx Bot__ anical Gardens, and which was the pet
_ and football mascot of the Fordham
__University student body during the
___.. past season has been executed.
Last September Rameses was pur_ chased by the staff of The Ram, the
student weekly publication, to be used
~ at football games. !

But the football season, like all other
things in a ram's life, came to an end.
The question arose as to the disposition
of Rameses. The Ram staff decided that
7 death should be his portion, inorder th at
his head might be added to the trophies

4 an

_ in their editorial sanctum.

    
   

\ Le
a

 
     
   

    
   
     
    
 

    
 

     
 

Beauty Shoppe!

The largest and best equi

d Beauty Parlors east of

ontreal—and onty then outdone in size! All our operators
are graduates —e: ;—in

every phe ot Beauty Cultureand all equipment is modern
to the smallest detail.

Your patronage is solicited,
and we warrant complete satisfaction from a manicur to

a permanent wave.

    

  
 
 
 

  
      
     
   
     
   
  

| THE WOOD BROS CO.,

Limited

    
  
  
     

    

  

 

| MACLEOD,

BALCO .

  
    
    

eae” Team got back from Antigonish last

. year. The return trip is about the only

Te Vanes: Neu aee subject Ben’s never written about.
| Cor. Quinpool Rd. and Oxford St. Dean Read was once in an automobile
wreck, but I don’t think it relevant.

   

HALIFAX, N.S.

   
  

What about medical science Bill?

W: Well, Jock would say: “It’s
all in the lettle bo-o-ok’’, if that’s any
help. But I don’t think medicine can
assist us much in solving our problem.

T: Nor dentistry. Let's get at

Arts — unadulterated education, the
fountain of culture!
M: Well now, first of all, Troy having
been taken, perhaps I should speak for
Howard. Arma virumque cano Barbara Darii Ferioque prioris. Get
that Tupp? No? Well, it doesn’t
seem quite right to me either—not
altogether logical. To tell you the
truth about Howard boys, though
I’ve seen him translate Latin right
out of the book, not quickly, it is
true yet offhand, I cannot think he
could solve a problem like ours, even
with a key.

W: From what I remember of
Arts some of those profs would be
apt to freeze us in here for the winter.

M: I was just trying to recall
some of my reading in English literature. Oh yes! The Rollo Boys—
it seems to me there was something
in that about an ‘‘old wreck”’.

W: Well, what would they do
when they had a wreck?

M: Ihave it! The faithful battleship Oregon would come steaming
across the plains—

W: Now, don’t be silly! We're in
the mountains, not on the ‘prairies.
You should remember the prairies,
Morton,—do you forget saying how
beautiful it was to look in every
direction and see nothing?

: Speaking of the faithful battleship Oregon, Archie MacDonald could
have told us what the Dartmouth
Ferry does in time of wreck.

W: Say, we forgot about Bunker—we
can get him in to speak for the Sociology Department. I knew Bunker
would prove useful on this trip—it was

   

STATIONERY |
| Xmas Stationery arrived
| to late for Xmas !

1 . 25 off

: . See Some Of These Values

 
   
 
 

     
 

| Freeman’s Pharmacy

COR. COBURG anv HENRY

      
 
 

NEW!
‘‘TheBook of Ultima Thule”’
B

Y
ARCHIBALD MacMECHAN
PRAISE OF NOVA SCOTIA

     
        
    

HEADQUARTERS

FOR EVERYTHING
IN

SPORTING GOODS
AT POPULAR PRICES

MacDonald Hardware Co
SPRING GARDEN RD.

WeLt

      

  

  

Se

    

quite a good idea to bring him! An
SEE WALLACE other. man I’ve never regretted bringOPTOVETRIST AND OPTICIAN [f|'!ng 1s Norwood Fader, after the
Y. M. GC. A, BLDG. HALIFAX, N. 8 showing he made in the popular

    
 

athlete contest. Never regretted it,

» SS AE least not since we lost him
in Truro.

W: As I diagnose the case, our

twenty years education isn’t advancing
us much—a problem like this shows
the value of the university.
_ M: Iconcur. This education stuff
is the bunk. I’d swap my B. A. any
time for a Football D.

T: Or your Football D for a B. A.,

 

That Well
Groomed Appearance!

Have your hair cut every 10 days
by one of LEE’S expert barbers
and maintain a neat appearance.

      
         

 

    

| out Low Price
| Doubly Attractive

a | lot of trouble but it only comes once a

 

m

. LEE’S eh, Kelly?
lac. ey eee i a rum way te spend

A ristmas Eve—trying to think.
i Basement Barber Shop almost wish I were home, just for the
mee oo Gu. bulla Ga - Malifac mG |} | evening. I wonder what I'd be doing.
| 48 Sackville St., Halifax, N. S. (While Morton muses Tupper stirs

1 Pew ‘| | the fire into a blaze, and presenily
re = ————— 7 sq ifurns down the ol-lamp on the table.
he ) The three sit in the glow of _ the fire,

F a | Our High Quality Standard {| Winyield on the yloor.)

It’s just like[Christmas. It may bea

year—The Year Book.

_ ‘|| SUITS, OVERCOATS |
| |] FULL DRESS and

    

eg eaters Correct Apparel
UP ke for Co-eds
as, 24 Afternoon, Evening
He a MADE-TO-MEASURE and Sports ¥ ear
| Tip Top Tailors }!| jeNsEN & MILLS

 
   

sa

  

- CO., LIMITED
Spring Garden Road

 

+ i e t bs
1 :

      
  

 

 

(Continued from Page 1.)

I remember some happy Christmas
Eves, thinking about Santa Claus,
writing him notes to put in the fire,
hanging up my stocking. It's not so
long ago either.

T: (in whom the last speech has awakened memories) I can recall hanging up a
stocking, a pretty colored stocking with
a bell on the toe.

W: The last note I wrote to Santa
Claus—when was it? I wanted long
trousers! Fun to think of it! I wonder
if we couldn't—

M: (timidly) Couldn't we make believe,
just among ourselves, that we were

kiddies. None of the boys will be
along for a while. It would be more
like Christmas Eve.

W: (Getting up from the yloor and facing
the audience, he begins to recite.)

“It was the night before Christmas

When all through the house

Not a creature was stirring

Not even a mouse.”

I’m afraid I’ve forgotten the rest.

T: (taking Winfteld’s place at the
front of the stage and holding in his hand

“Christmas is coming

The geese are getting fat
‘ Please put a penny in the old man’s

at

If you haven't got a whole penny

A ha’penny will do.

If you haven't got a ha’penny

God bless you!”

There, I, think that’s right.

M: I can almost believe I’m home.
Right now I believe in Santa Cla.s more
than ever in my life. I can hardly
remember a Christmas pluck.

W: I think I believe in Santa Claus,
ses but I’d hate the Gazette to get hold
of it.

M: Shades of Vergil! I have another
idea!

(Winfield iumps for the lamp, flooding
the room with light, as 1f to tndicate the
importance of the phenomenon. Morton
confides his idea, the three holding a
whispered consultation, the nodding heads
of Winfield and Tupper indicating
approval.)

W: It is a great idea Kelly old boy;
you've redeemed yourself and your
slogan. Vancouver tomorrow! We
should have had you on the AntigonishCaledonia trip.

T: It is a wonderful solution all right,
but I’m a little worried about one thing—
what would Muschamp think?

W: What will the team think—about
their part in it?

M: Vancouver tomorrow! I hope the
Mayor comes across with turkey—but
if it’s a choice between chicken and
canned salmon, I'll take salmon.

W: Who's going to tell the boys?
It may be a little difficult to explain—

even though it is Christmas Eve. What
about you Tupp? you're pretty diplomatic. Didn't you invite the whole
college, through the Gazette last year,
to a bean supper one Saturday night
at the Y?

T: I have it! Let Kelly tell themthrough his megaphone—and then if they
misu;iderstand there will be no harm
done: Tell them what they've got to do,
Kelly.

M: As you say, Captain. (Morion,
turning to the audience, speaks through
the megaphone.) Bill is now writing a
note to Santa Claus asking him to wake
us up tomorrow morning in Vancouver.
To show Santa their good faith all the
boys are to hang up their stockings, say
“‘Now I lay me’, and tuck themselves
in for the night to wait for St. Nicholas.

(Applause is important at this point:

choose audience carefully for this purpose.)
And now, Dalhousians, let us wish the
manager and every member of one of
Dalhousie’s finest football teams a
merry, merry Christmas and the most
successful of New Years! May Santa
Claus put something nice in the Black
and Gold stocking. Everybody up, for
a Dal yell, finishing with ‘‘Vancouver or
Bust”. ‘Now—
(The Player, in his interpretation of
Morton, does not forget that the prince of
cheerleaders is swaying a Dalhousie
football crowd for the last time—probably. Hts performance shows a remarkable technique and ends with a leap into
the ozone.)

fi 9-213
U—PI—DEE
DAL—HOU—SIE etc
VANCOUVER OR BUST

Audience:

 

LOOKING OVER THE FCOTBALL SEASON

(Continued from Page 1.)

 

and on many occasions, especially in the
third game, they lost out after having
outplayed their opponents for the
greater part of the game. The sequel
to this final fracas was a parade through
town of hundreds of wildly excited
students who lost little time in letting
the public know that they had conquered
their old rivals. An impromptu theatre
night at the Majestic that evening was
made possible through the kindness of
O'Connell and Capt. Plunkett of the
Dumbells. The records show the Tigers
with 17 points for the season and the
Reds with eleven.

In their final game played here the
Tigers won the Maritime Championship and the McCurdy Trophy by
defeating the Caledonia Fifteen 14-3
on the Studley Campus. The long
drawn out Halifax City League plus
other hindrances prevented the Maritime Championship being decided in the
ordinary manner and the absence of
U. N. B. from the play offs makes the
title garnered by the Tigers in their
final game sound a bit hollow. The
game itself came near spelling disaster
for all concerned. The field was frozen
as hard as iron and time after,ime the
whistle blew to let some fallen warrior
recover after a spill on the frozen surface. Lighter and, in no way, a match
for the Tigers the Caledonia team found
themselves on the short end of a 14-3
score when the final whistle sounded.
The Tigers were fortunate in that none
of their players were severely injured.

Se ee

 

— ee ere Ne a

THE DECLINE AND FALL OF THE
TOOTH-PICK

 

 

How low has the mighty fallen!
The humble tooth-pick has for us now
none of the glamour of the halcyon
days of its ascendancy. In fact, it is a
matter of great doubt of many of the
very people who furtively call in its
kindly aid when they are sure no one is
looking are aware of its descent. The
ancestor of the toothpick was not so
long ago, an ornamental as well as
useful part of the personal equipment
of every dandy of Pall Mall as well as
the inevitable after-dinner amusement
of the lesser lights of White Chapel. As
common a sight at the close of the grand
dinners of the nobility as the less sumptious meais of the slum districts, was the
grandly ostentatious with-drawing of
tooth-picks from golden case or dingy
pocket in preparation for the pleasurable
operations which followed.

Conversation did not wane. Not at
all. Some of the most brilliant sayings
in the English language were forced to
hurdle an industrious tooth-pick. These
were indeed its great days, when those
who could afford it had gold, silver and
ivory toothpicks in fance cases suspended about their necks on a silken cord.
Just as the dandy of today in moments
of ennui lights a cigarette, or screws
a monocle into his eye, the maccaroni of
that time produced with a flourish his
toothpick and languidly proceeded to
delve among his molars, all the while
unconcernedly surveying the scene before him.

As fashions changed, the mighty
toothpick began to slip. No longer was
its dextrous use a social asset, although
it had not lost its standing as a table
necessity like the comparatively novel
fork. Since that day it has slowly but
steadily lost ground. A book in the
Lansing Law Library, mentioned by the
Detroit “Free Press’ “Ye Book of
Etiquet”’, published in 1850, gives us
an approximate date of its fall in this
interesting aid to mannerly conduct.

‘Picking your teech, however fashionable it once was, has now gone out of
fashion.”

Nevertheless, this edict of the etiquette moguls certainly did not alto
 

-a party may bea bore—the lady of
one’s choice may be dancing with another
-yet there's still a morsel of satisfaction in
the dreariest festivities for the man
who says

Te feet)

NE

    
  
     

HUBLEY’S

DRY CLEANING, DYING AND
PRESSING

VALETE:\ 1A

YELLOW CAB

LIMITED
SAC. 4444

Halifax’s Only Metered
Service

2.00
PHON §& ig9

4 Tickots
52 SACKVILLE ST.

 

gether check the course of the declining ’
toothpick. It was down, but by no George F, Power Same Rates 24 Hours.
means out. It is just within the last Two travel for same as one.

decade that we have not felt it a grave
reflection upon the efficiency and service
of a hotel or dining car if sanitary quill
toothpicks in sealed wrappers were not
provided for our use, and even to the
present day, a small glass container of
these little implements, like a sun-burst
or the business portion of a porcupine
is usually seen adorning the exits of
these places of refreshment, presumably
to be taken along for use when no one is
looking.

Nowadays, the open use of the toothpick spells social damnation, and justly
so. Yet how many we still see about us!
Everybody knows the person who fruitlessly makes the effort to escape the
stigma of vulgarism by performing the
intricate operations of picking his teeth
within the doubtful shelter of a screening hand and the one who, for similar
reasons, retires into a more or less
obscure corner to perform the same
ceremony.

Among the really vulgar, we often
see its well known form, fresh or toilworn as the case may be, coyly peeping
from the corner of a mouth, making
convulsive if desultory movements from
time to time, as if in the mind of its
owner, it were a staple of diet, which
must be completely dissolved and
assimilated, under pain of starvation.

Though the sanitary and efficient
dental floss is now considered more
dignified even in strictest privacy, the
humble toothpick holds sway as the
cheaper and more convenient, and
consequently, emulating the poor, is
always with us.

Beginning as a useful gew-gaw at the
top of the social scale, and ending, a
beloved pariah, the toothpick is yet in
little danger of utter extinction. Hail
it then. With the fops of bygone days,
a thing of beauty, it has become to the
less fastidious, a joy forever!

Cigars Cigarettes, Tobaccos
SMOKERS’ REQUISITES

of every Description.
—Also—
Cards, Souvenirs of Halifax
Majestic Bldg.
HAL 3
RENTS MENDED
HOLES DARNED
Laundry to Ungar’s.
VALETERIA
A new pressing Service:
Your Suit or Overcoat
LAUNDERING DYEING
CLEANING VALETERIA

FICTION LENDING LIBRARY

More than two, 20 cents extra,

As Usual

The best in Ice Creams, Con
fectionery and Meals, as well

as courtesy, efficent service and
attractive surroundings are to
be had at
BUTTONS ON H
| The Green Lantern

That’s the service you get
free when you send YOUR

TWO BOBBER SHOPS
FIRST CLASS SERVICE

The Home of the Shingle

MAJESTIC THEATRE
BUILDING

AND !
Cor. GEORGE & BARRINGTON
STREETS

Don’t Neglect Your Appearance

Steam Cleaned and Pressed, for 75c or 4 Tickets
for $2.00.

NECKTIES cleaned 10c.

UNGAR’S

Halifax, N. S.
Har. 127

 

Barrington St.,

Sack 428 NOTICE!

Special Students’ Discount

CONDONS

Men’s Store

—W. Gordon Dustan

 

en eee

 

The Dalhousie Year Book is the
advertiser’s key to the library table in
homes where it will be seen by hundreds
for years to come.

PIANOS, VICTROLAS,
Instruments and Victor Records

“SAY IT WITH — |
CHINA, CUT GLASS
AND SILVERWARE?” |

Gifts selected from our showing of high-class China, Cut
Glass, Hollow Silverware, and
Community Plate make useful
and appreciative gifts, for the
Bride, the Home or for the

———

In their exhibition games the Tigers
also did well. Their first win was over
Acadia at Wolfville and the score was
8—0. Their journey to Eastern Nova
Scotia resulted in a scoreless draw with
St. S. X. and 3—0 win over Caledonia.

393 Barrington St. Halifax

 

    

Bill Wickwire and George Langstroth Anniversary.
eer the heavy point getters for Dalousie, George Langstroth made five 1S RE W :
trys for fifteen points, while Wickwire ebster,Smith Co.
made one try, one field goal, and six * LIMITED
converts for nineteen points. Art Sut- Men S$ Mufflers ‘
Spies on the oval over the line | Direct Importers
three times for nine points, McLean .
twice for six, and Jones twice for six. at 174 tp uheatant Mwy _

   

Ab Smith kicked a convert and scored
a try for five points. Joe Dunlop and
“Bunker” Murphy each scored a try
for three points.

Halifax, N. S.

  
 

 

 

Football Team Record

Small Musical
We invite you to join our
2 cents per day
McDonald Music Co,
HALF—PRICE
Frank Colwell Ltd.

    
     
 

 

 

 

Oct. 8th Dal vs Wanderers 0—O

Oct. 15th Dal vs Acadia (exh) 8—0O New Address Gauvin WY Gentzel

Oct. 22nd Dal vs Services 11—0 417 Barrington Street

Oct. 29th Dal vs Wanderers 3—3 Opp. Church of England Institute

Nov. 5th Dal vs St.F. X. 0—0 Photographers

Nov. 8th Dal vs Caledonia 3—0

Nov. 12th Dal vs United Ser. 13—3

Nov. 19th Dal vs Wanderers 3—3

Nov. 26th Dal vs Wanderers 0—0 THE SONG SHOP tro.

Dec. 5th Dal vs Wanderers 11—5

Dec. 12th Dal vs Caledonia 14—3 for ANYTHING in

Dec. 26 Dal vs U. . C. 3—3 MUSIC 18 Spring Garden Road
at Vancouver : ,

Dec. noch ‘Dal vs Victoria 0—5 22 Spring Garden Rd. Phone Sac. 692

Dec. 31st Dal vs Van. City 0—13 Halifax, : $ Canada

Jan. 2nd Dalys U. B.C © 0—0

 

 

 

  

2 Oi Py Oh llr nomi ~

Page Three

 
  
  

a friends, both in and out of
: Ever’ active in Lapel en
destinies of the sas Peball
uring the coming season, On
If of the students: nie faculty the
e wishes to congratulate Mr.
aioe on his appointment and also
hes “him every success fn his new

 
  

  
  

~

ca ee RE sumbers cont. anything tie Dal2 : puck chasers should have a
| ae banner season in 1928. Well over a
) Ee score of candidates for the team turned |t
out for the first practise in the Halifax

 

 
 

a - boys through a fairly stiff workout and
* ape although few of them showed champion: oy ship form the prospects for a strong
Y Le team are not at all remote. Among the
¥
a

 
 

       

_ newcomers Jimmie Ross, Dartmouth
star, showed the best form, Ross is a
safe bet for a position on the first team.
~ Ray MacCunn, Omar Taylor, Henry]
_ Godsoe, and many others were out and
- geem to have all their old time form.
Vata Eddie Murray is out to get a
_ winning team and as many practises as

ible will be held. The loss of Os
Be urgey, star goalie of this and last
_ year’s Dartmouth Senior team will be
a severe handicap to the team.

  

 

The showing of the Dalhousie Second
- Team in their first game in the Cit
Intermediate Basketball League left
nothing to be desired. They had little
trouble in etre Pine Hill. Davison,
a newcomer to Dalhousie, was the pick
. of the Tigers and scored 25 of the team's
points. Davidson is a former Sydney
_ Academy star and looks good enough
to be with the First team. His playing
‘was one of the features of the evening.
Manager George MacIntosh expects
igheat things of the second team and
hopes to turn out a winning senior
aggregation as well. The Senior City
_ League will not get under way for some
_time yet.

DALHOUSIE GIRLS WIN
IN FIRST HOOP JILTS

BOTH TEAMS CARRY OFF
‘ HONORS.

 

 

 

On Monday, Jan. 9th the City League
ere at the West End Baptist Hall.

wo games. were played, one in the
Senior section, and the other in the
Intermediate section.

In the senior game Dalhousie clashed
with X-Academy. The game was fast
a et _ through ea and beth teams were comres B mene | for the clean playing. The
r - college girls held their opponents down

_ well in the first half at the end of which

___ the score stood 12-16 in favor of X-Aead* pemy. “Tn the second half the Academy
girls had the edge and Dal weakened
toward the middle of the period. Long
shots and accurate passing on the part
of X-Academy were the featurés of the
me. The Dal girls seemed a little
bewildered but gave the Academy
players a hard fight before the game
ended by a score of 40-20 with X-Academy leading. Betty Freeman and Jean

Fraser showed up well for Dalhousie,

while the pick of the opposing team were

Grace Lawrence and Marian Isnor.

The Intermediate game was less interesting to watch than the Senior period
Dalhousie turned out a fine Intermedlate team, and they played a very fast
and extremely clean-cut game. The

opponents, King’s, had an excellent

team on the floor and played with great
determination. Dal had the edge on
King’s from start to finish, but King's
showed up well and with a little coaching should have a fine team.

In the first half King’s showed more
spirit than in the second period. Their
guards were checking up on the Dal forwards in great style. This period ended
15-3 with Dal in the lead. In the second
period Dal proved they had great scoring
ability when basket after basket was
netted by centres and forwards alike.
Kings were swamped but showed great
spirit and played hard till the final
whistle blew. Elena Cavicchi starred
for King’s while Helen Robertson and
Allene McCurdy were the best of the
Dal line-up. The game ended 52—11.

 

 
 
  
    
  
  
   
 
    
   
   
  
 
  
   
       
   
  
 
   
 
   
  
    
     
   
    
  
 
  
   
  
   
  
 
  
 
 
   
  
 
  

lineups:
SENIOR.—Centres: M. MacDonald,
“ J. Fraser, Forwards: E. Freeman, M.
Thompson; Guards: L. Barnstead, P.
Miller; Spare: E. DesBrisay.
Intermediate. — Centres: J. Dumih aresq, E. Cameron; Forwards: A. McCurdy, A. Atherton; Guards: H. Robertson, E. Shaw.

oO

- BERRY AND HATTON COMING
2 TO CASINO

 

 
 
 
  

__ Wallace Berry and Raymond Hatton

have fought in the army, swabbed
decks in the navy, dodged submarines
and now they complete the service
cycle by donning flyers’ costume and
soaring aloft in ‘‘Now We're in the Air’’
which will be at the Casino Theatre the
- first 3 days of next week. Production
i this picture was virtually demanded

‘Vi — “es aap which longed to be entered once more by the great team of

 
 
 
   

  
 
  
 
 
     
  
 
 
 
  
    
 
 
  
 
   

a 8 eet” so ans “We're in the Navy Now,”

requests to the effect that the funniest
ns of the clouds.

on. ‘the screen, folks are begin
ete what the aoe step will
ks. hes ye cell's

      
 
   
 
    
     
     
   
   
   
   
    
     
       
     
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
       
 

Forum. Coach Harry Butler put the],

 
  

Ever since Beery and Hatton | ff
mashingly in ‘Behind the | }

Paramount has received innumerable |
@ men in the movies be placed in

last service: pieture al- |i promised at the

a part | |

|i} One Block North of Post Office

December 16th, 1927.
R. E. INGLIS, ESQ.,

Pre ; ¥ | Secretary Dalhousie Alumni mere
gue came as no surprise

Halifax, N. §.

Dear Sir:—Your Executive ap Thou
o|ed me to raise funds for the Dalhousie
Foothall Trip to Vancouver. enclose herewith eure for 2d hundred eighty-two dollars and fifty-eight
cents ($1682. 58) representing the amount
subscribed in accordance with the
attached list. When the first subscriptions were received they were
acknowledged by the Treasurer and

kept in the general account of the Soc
jety, but later it was decided to open a
ial Savings Account, No. 9919 at
tes ank of Nova Scotia and the enclosed cheque closes out that account.
May I suggest that the enclosed list
be published in the Dalhousie Gazette,
the Alumni News and in the local press.
Collections from so many contributors
so widely scattered was the result of the
efforts of local collectors at Saint John
Moncton, Amherst, New Glasgow, Sydney’ Mines, Yarmouth and Halifax.
I appointed collectors at one or two
other
collections made by them. I understand some money was raised at Glace
Bay but with the consent of the donors
was applied to payment of the Caledonia
—Dalhousie guarantee. By reason ofa
washout on the railway the Dalhousie
team did not reach ( ilace Bay on Thanksgiving Day. The game was played the
following day and the Caledonia Club
ut up the same amount as guaranteed
for the Thanksgiving Day game.
I wish to particularly ane the Herald
and Mail and Chronicle and Star papers

| of Halifax for their part in raising the

necessary funds. They gave the first
money subscribed and they boosted the
trip by frequent references in their
columns. Without their aid the trip
the trip could not have ta‘en place.

Acknowledgement should also be
made of letters and printed subscription
forms donated by the Nova Print.
The other expenses incidental to the
campaign such as postage, telephones,
telegrams and exchange were paid by
my office.

Yours very truly,
R. M. FIELDING.
Dalhousie Vancouver Football Fund

Campaign Subscriptions
Cash on Hand, December 16th, 1927

 

Dalhousie Students........... $ 269.58
WE Ts NRE IEG od > cin ewe st > 150.00
idtites Hera bel si kcs yin ate:e 0” 100.00
Halifax Daily Star.....:..... 100.00
G.S..Campbell.... oe 4-.0i+%- 100.00
orl. Winhiela, 2080.3 .5 kiss 100.00
A Halifax Fan..... i conn Ee 100.00
G. McG. Mitchell... ed 26, ef SOROO
Dal. Professors Studley... 62.00
Phinneys Limited............ 25.00
Dr. E. Ross'Faulkner........ 25.00
CSE DULCE CF ihe ee 25.00
Yarmouth Collector.......... 25.00
George Townshend........... 25.00
New Glasgow Collector....... 20.00
G. Fred Pearson......... 24.0.5 20.00
Re eH di ied Pee! leis b 20.00
PEREGO see <n sais ee oe 20.
Sydney Mines Collector...... 15.
Daley, Phinney & Bethune.... 15:
DROS UNECE gli Noah, leius areata a a i
Ry ee Bee ce NE hacks ys 10.
Dr. Phil MclLarren.........-.. 10.
Dr. W. W. Woodbury........ 10.
Des RT i irae a. ie, ee siege 10.
BR ESINE Nin Be cea asp ey niaie bos 10.
DO SAREE ey CMa aie faces Wie 10.
Dr. K. MacKenzie......... ‘ 10.
McLeod & Balcom........... 10.

CE OA 1 a Ee 10.
NE MITER Pao Sch i All ow 10.

Ro ME. Bielding Oo iy ee ee 10.
Willard Thompson........... 10.

3) WMeaiGiiyrayiso ect. 03 Yo 10.
CrEay MaIteHPN fc us wos 88 ba 10.
oo py et Ce Bor a nr 10.
Prenry t. MEUBYO. oc. Vos 28 10.
Wilfred E. Hillis... oi... 55s 10.
WB. Phommson... dale nve 6 os 10.

MEE WORE soa hoy aaa) 1s 1.
TSP PRO WHCZ ok ch ke ee et:
BOE EOS oo a Pe sais acho who weh a
fore Fe Vs Graham ics sec. uke Si
bat ee ee Weir ply os... Sas as 5.
Dr. H. K. MacDonald...... 5.6
Per: V. D. Davidson... . 2... y.
ier John Cameron... 6.0... 5.
De ee Vi RPOGS 8s Ys Oe aie ba Da
BOPP Re. Ba BAXtOE,. ss s,sde5.os% 5 5.
Lor OBOE CWith 5 iso ios tie aleatels 5.
Dr. Hennigar. . ai;
Dr. G. K. Thompson... re aes a:
Dr. Karl Woodbury.......... a

Say it with Flowers, Say it with ours |
THE HOME OF

Cut Flowers Potted Plants

We make up Funeral Designs,
also Wedding Bouquets. We also
‘do Table Decorating. Weare the }
only members of the T. F. D. Flor- ff
ists. We can wire Flowers to |
all parts of the world. |

The Roseryp

8 BLOWERS ST.
Phone Sac. 3321-3322
Night Phone Sac. 1934

The Greatest Asset of a bai

ness is to give customers |
what they want—when they
want it. |

JOB AKU SOCIETY. PRINTING.

always delivered when

Nova Print Limited
227-229 Hollis Street |

 

Russell McInnis.............

points but as yet have received no| J.

 

 

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Nee ee

Hon. I. F. ne Beh teams
Us Be Rutlesge news. do.

a ee Oyo hE Oe A OV ele

Pieters RONNIE TON so dale ay Bs
Professor A. L. MacDonald...
Dr. Cogswell
Donald MclInnis.........+...
RC. MacDonaidiivs icc 5
E. E. B. Smith
Ree EP NEUTEAV ck 6 bs wale es
H. E. Pyke
Miss oa EA ares cs WIA Che tat
Dr. Chudleigh
Amherst Collector
Be Be OUPEBOY: 45 iid ala stella d
O. R. Crowell
Joseph McQuarrie
Dr. Keshen
J. S. Roper
Murray Logan
I. C. Doty
AN I GOee ih wise irstae sods
Prof. H. E. Read
Py SP REIOGS a i aot k's < eles
Dr. J. Stan. Gaganll
Bye CPR Eye eis oe UE igh oF aia
Dr. F. Thomas

Sie7e. 8) Y eel Are awe) |e eee

a oe ele ein ma Of e.8 © 6 <e

wok |e. Lote aS aw ete el al ae >

S Ge, 8 4; 4) & © Le Oe 628 6

ete a 4:56) 9.3 6) 8

w| << So) ead os 0) «fe
han Big -# ge ofa a 8
Sin wo So Wiare 0 6 aw 8 ee ale
oe Wie. oP Wee © 2 Ae fo oe
Ow aie 4 @erei bo 0). “a's

sisce eae ee eer eenean eae

ale: 3 @ie o' ele =« @ 6/6

see ee we HO

SSESSSRBSG2S= 255555 see ee

Pertti ik, hail: Wile <laielee. sree .00
Dia Matloors wit) a due 2 dae. .00
ec Ae Bh ATE USEHTLL oh rc fa Sct eo een « .00
emer TPOSON. ek O5ih adele 00

Gordon Fogo........ «5 RS.
H. M. Ferguson
Professor Gowanloch

Wi6.'97 8 SOLS. e Oe O je: me

‘*The Secret Hour’’ Gives
Pola a Glowing Romance

 

If you long for romance, choose your
background with great care. This is
the advice of Pola Negri, the screen's
strongest protagonist of romantic love.

“Setting is half the battle,’ says
the gorgeous creature of emotion. ‘‘It’s
a wise girl who pays particular attention
to the time and the place, taking advantage of a lovely moon, exquisite
scenery or soft lamp light and shadows.

‘Men are susceptible and impressionable. All a woman needs is her
feminine wit and the,right props.”

Don't miss this. To be shown at the
Majestic, Mon. Tues., and Wed.

celal pais iidentaaetnreiemnhincnenes
THE FUND

 

The letter and subscription list given
below were received by R. E. Inglis,
secretary of the Dalhousie Alumni
Society from R. M. Fielding, organizer
of the Vancouver Trip Campaign. Much
credit is due Mr. Fielding and the alumni society for the wonderful effort they

put forward in order to make the trip a
Desasifility, An active alumni is a great
boon to a university and the Dalhousie
Alumni society has once more showed
itself to be extremely active and interested in the life of Dalhousie.

—_———<———_——_>—__—__———_

Everybody has a drag with someone.
Use it on your business friend and get
an ad for the Year Book. You will be
doing him a favor. Ask the business
manager for rates.

| Globe Laundry Ltd.

50 Buckingham Street

| G. W. SPRAGUE, Vice-Pres. |
De SPRAGUE, Pres.

| The College Students’
| Laundry

Telephone S 714

FOOTWEAR
Swanky Oxfords
Styled

for Young Men,

correct in style—and easy

on Finances. A shoe you'll
be proud to wear.

New Shoes for the
College Girl

Shoes for street and
sport wear and also
slippers appropriate for
the coming evening events.

all

Wallace Bros

427

    
  
   
   
   
  
 
   
   
  
  
 

   
  
  
  

SAVE MONEY!

ON YOUR LOOSELEAF SUPPLIES—SEE

| FRANK M. O°NEILL

& CO., LTD.
152 Granville Street

Complete stock of Loose Leaf
| Books, Refills, Pencils Pens, etc.

    
  
 
 
  
   

  
  
     
 

    
  

Your Paper

The Gazette is the ‘official university
paper. It is supposed to give an account
of the student activities of Dalhousie
and to express the ideas of the students.
If it is to succeed in it’s work it must
receive the ideas of the university.
A selected few cannot express adequately
the ideas of all the students. Are your
ideas expressed in these columns? Are
you in agreement with all the ideas set
forth? If so your mind must be a
wonderful mixture of contradictory
ideas. If the thoughts brought out are
not in line with your thinking then it is
time that you give The Gazette of your
knowledge and wisdom. The staff
appreciates every contribution and suggestion and every article is carefully
considered for publication. Have you
submitted an article, poem or verse?
If not it is time to prepare something
and thus truly have a voice in the making
of the college paper.

a
SEATS, PLEASE

 

 

Our prayers have been answered!
Many, many weeks ago agitation started
for the supplying of seats in the smoking
room of the Medical Science Building.
Santa Claus must have brought them—
as
holidays. While the congestion is somewhat relieved in the ? -vicinity of the
water meter, it is felt that two low
benches, each seating | four students
with ‘“‘tight squeezing’, is not quite

                               

sufficient for a room accomodating some |

seventy-five students. Probably the

two are only samples of Santa's or the |}

carpenter's art, to be followed by a
more liberal number. If a _ second
allotment is due it is hoped a table or
two may be coaxed to join the contingent.

 

CLASS
JEWELLERY
We enjoy the distinction of

making aay all Dalhousie
Class Jewellery.

We appreciate the trust placed
in us by the Dalhousie students
and in turn always assure them
of our very best service.

HENRY BIRKS & SONS
LIMITED

Diamond Merchants HALIFAX

To readers of
The Dalhousie Gazette

we recommend

Kinley s

ioe REXALL
DRUG STORE

For everything in
Needs

499 Barrington Street
Phone Sack. 61

Drug Store

WINNERS Fromthe

Start

For 60 years the REACH Trade
Mark on Sporting Goods has been
a mark of perfection. No matter
what your favorite sport may be, we
can supply you with equipment that
will help you play the game with
the best that's in you.

CRAGG BROS. CO. LTD.

Hardware and Sporting Goods
HALIFAX, N. S.

 

The
Halifax Chronicle

AND

The |
Halifax Daily Star

The

fastest growing

newspapers in

Nova Scotia

 

| STUDENTS’ ELECTRIC |
| LAMPS AND SUPPLIES |

| FARQUHAR BROS. LTD.

PRCT R eye Street

The Best English Film Ever Shown

four individuals to the claims of war.
The scene is laid in’France, in the little |
village of Hondebecq.

den, forms the remaining link in the

 

   
     
   
   

     
     
    

““ROSES OF PICARDY”’

 

 

Majestic

SEYMOUR HICKS
and
ELLALINE TERRIS

And entire London Company

It is the story of the varied actions of

 
     
   
    
   
       
   
      
    
    
      
     
   
     

Madeline, al]
peasant girl, is mistress of the Spanish farm where Lieut. Skene is billeted | #
with his platoon. Madeline begs him
to obtain news of her soldier bon ami,
Georges d'Archeville, son of a noble
house, whom Madeline loves, but whose
interest in her is merely perfunctory.

Madeline's father, Jerome Vanderlyn- MON. TUE. WED.

POLA NEGRI

little chain of humanity.

Georges fails to communicate with | |
Madeline, who is visited by skene while } |
in a state of shell-shock and desperate
depression, and the climax of the little | fi

in
| “THE SCARLET HOUR”

      
     
      
             
    
   
     
   
   
     
 
    
  
  
 
   
 
     
   
 
  
 
 
   
 

 

   

slice of life is reached when Madeline ie

eases the ache in her own heart by giving STRAND - NOW
him the comfort he craves. See the THE CARROLL PLAYERS
rest of the story, appearing at the

Orpheus the first three days of next
week.

 

PROGRAMMES
and other JOB PRINTING|

receive our special attention

The ROYAL PRINT & LITHO Ltd.

THIS FR!. & SATURDAY
ZANE GREY’S

‘OPEN RANGE’’
with «
Betty Bronson, Lane Chandler
CHAPTER ONE

“The Trail of The Tiger’’
STARRING
Jack Daugherty

“OUR GANG” COMEDY

FIRST THREE DAYS
NEXT WEEK

Two Nutty Navigators
WALLACE BERRY

and
as ERED HATTON
N

  

  

   

     
   

  

 

   
    
       

PRINTIN CG Nata EiNDBERGHt
é What a Picture!
t
MODERATE |
post ORPHEUS|

  

MON. TUE. WED.
““ROSES OF PICARDY”
A Big British Production Comedy
‘**‘RUSHING BUSINESS”’

Fox News, Pathe Review

T. C. Allen & Co.

124 & 126 Granville Street

  

  
 
    
   
   
  
 
  
   

THUR. FRI. SAT.
‘““GINSBERG THE GREAT”
COMEDY

Her Second Honeymoon
Fables

EXPERT
FOUNTAIN PEN
REPAIRS

Dont start the New Year handiJ capped with a pen that does not
i write satisfactorily.

It may need but slight adjustment—or expert repair—bring in
7 the pen you can get both at

  
  

TUXEDOS

My new price on Tuxedos is
considerable comment throughout
the Dominion.

“THE NONCHALANT”
SILK LINED ,
AT MY NEW PRICE

$24.50
Robinson’s Clothes Ltd.

444 Barrington St.
Opp. Roy Building
“Walk Up Stairs and Save Ten"’

  
     
       
     
      
  
  
   
  
 
  
  
   
  
 

FARRELL’S

391 Barrington St.

A Complete Book — Stationery
and Gift Shop Service

ENGINEERING COURSES

in

CIVIL, ELECTRICAL, MECHANICAL AND MINING

To Dalhousie Students with Engineering Diploma
MODERN EQUIPMENT

i Instructing Staff with Industrial Experience
Tuition Fee $75.00 per year. Twenty-five scholarships of $75.00 each

Write or call for Calendar or advice.

F; H. SEXTON, Pres.

 

COLWELL BROTHERS

Limited ~

453-457 Barrington Street

HATS, CLOTHING, FURNISHINGS
AND LUGGAGE

HIGH CLASS GOODS AT MODERATE PRICES

MEN’S

 

University Models
for

University Men

University requirements for scholastic,
athletic or social achievements are exacting.
Aisc in the matter of Clothes. These Suits
and Overcoats exactly the type you will like
to wear—Every new color—every accepted
style—every man assured perfect satisfaction.

SUITS $22.00
OVERCOATS $25.00

$27.50 $30.00 $35.00
$30.00 $35.00 $40.00 $45.00

$25.00
$27.50

W. F. PAGE

Barrington Street
Cor George

 

 
