   

    
 
 
   

#

BP ong LE
ae

|| ciRCULATION
3 OF ANY COLLEGE
- PAPER IN THE
MARITIMES

 

 

OFFICERS CARRYING OUT
STEPS OUTLINED AT
CONFERENCE

By BAG,
The National Federation of Canadian
University Students through its officers
L. I. Greene president, J. G. Godsoe,
vice-president and Percy Davies secretary-treasurer have heen advancing
admirably the various recommendations
- outlined at the Annual Conference held
3 as University of Toronto, December

Bil
Steps forward have been taken with
regard to Exchange of undergraduates,
National Student Employment Bureau,
4 - Canadian Intercollegiate Press Associoe iation and towards the establishment of

a Commission on Student Problems.

We he es Exchange of Graduates.

Up Se The object underlying the exchange
Siaiiaates of students is a worthy one. The need
_- -_-was never greater for unifying forces to
i be at work in Canada and this is one
way in which University Authorities
can make their contribution towards
the development of a national outlook

in Canada. |
_ A pamphlet “‘Exchange of Undergraduates” is being. considered. This
pamphlet will not only completely
outline the scheme but will also give
full information as to qualifications
necessary, making application, method
of selection, exchange sections, out- standing courses, fees, board, length of

2, Sterm,> etc:

The University Authorities are being
requested to place in their Calendars,

 

sa brief outline of the scheme at such time
Vie as the details will be completed.

1 ae It may be unteresting to note that
pee the following universities have approved
ete of the scheme:

University of Alberta
; British Columbia University
ae University of Saskatchewan
University of Western Ontario
Toronto University
; Queens University
Fret Ontario Agricultural College
Acadia University
University of New Brunswick
It is to be hoped that Dalhousie too
will give an affirmative answer and thus
aid in the worthy attempt at establish_ing and fostering a broad consciousness
of nationality.

National Student Employment Bureau.

a eeEeeSESEOeeeeeee
~

In this field it was decided for the
time being for each university to assist
its own students eziher through advertising as in McGill where they advertise
their listed help in magazines and papers;
or by having the Students’ Council
write to the Provincial Employment
Bureau.

Canadian Intercollegiate College
Press.

The benefits accuring from such a
press are obvious; however plans to
: create such an organ require most care
ful consideration and as a result the

work along these lines is done with

some. trepidation. However on_ re
commendation of the N. F. C. U.S.
: | the various college papers are devoting
| fa considerable space to Exchange Articles. In the Dalhousie Gazette Miss
K. Hanifen the Exchange Editor is
conducting a column ‘‘With Scissors
and Paste Pot.”’

ne.

Commission on Student Problems.

This Commission will serve as a
Bureau of Information and Advice to
the constituent members on Student
Problems. It will be a sort of Clearing
House and from this aspect of unlimited

_ importance in untangling the multit
-udinous problems of Student Government.

Special Rates on Railways.

  
  
  
  
 
  
   
 
 
 
  
  
    
  
 
  
   
 
    
 
   

Are students entitled to special rates?
 ~N. F.C. U.-S. is doing its utmost to
convince Railway Company’s that students should be given special consider
; ation. A student identity card is being
considered.

a

Debating.

 
 
 
 

A team from three

  

ing

of the Western] C. U.

|

|

Tm

| ta

| Steady Progress In Varied Fields

 

 
    
        
     
       
     
    
       
      
   

   

Announcement

The judges in The Gazette contribution competition have made
the following announcement for
the past four issues of the paper-
 

Prose: First Prize—None.

Second Prize—‘‘College Movies”’
—Kathleen Hanifen.

Second Prize—‘‘Shirreff Hall
Interior Beneficial’’—-B. R. Guss.

Verse: First Prize—‘‘Remembrance’’—Florence Brewster.

Honourable Mention—Sons—
Geedee.

No first prize was awarded for
prose as the judges considered
that none of the contributions
merited the award.

  

Convocation Play
Going A head

COMPETENT CAST HANDLING THIS YEAR’S
SHOW

Final arrangements for permission to

present ‘““THE SHOW-OFF” as _ this

year’s Convocation Play have been
made with Samuel French of New York
and rehearsals are now under way.

Already two principal rehearsals have
been held and a general rehearsal will
be held this evening.

The role of Aubrey Piper, The ShowOff, is being played by Kelly Morton.
Mr. Morton needs no_ introduction
to Dalhousie audiences; he has had
abundant experience in Glee Club and
will also be remembered as a star of
last years’ play, ‘‘The First Year. '’We
feel sure that Mr. Morton will gain
ee laurels in this difficult character
role.

Amy, Aubrey’s wife, will be played
by Miss Helen Williams, '31. This
talented little lady has not appeared
in any show here as yet, but we understand that she will be seen in the Delta
Gamma Revue.

Clara, Amy’s sister, will be played by
Miss Molly Fulton, an experienced
actress, too well known to require comment.

Mrs. Fisher, mother of Amy and
Clara, will be played by Miss Margaret
Jubien. And here we find another
young lady who has been hiding her
light under a bushel. We expect great
hinge from Miss Jubien in this tricky
role.

The part of Joe, Amy’s brother, will
be handled by Forrest Musgrave.
Forrest will be remembered both as an
accomplished actor and a skilful director.

The roles of Mr. Fisher and Frank
Hyland will be played by Clyde Douglas
and Jack Whalen, respectively. Both
these gentlemen were popular stars
of the English 2 Players last year.
In fact it is rather interesting to note
that the four men all belonged to that
company which presented several productions, from their Shakesperian Repertoire, in the Chemistry Theatre
last spring.

All in all, it looks like a competent
cast.

 

Universities is coming East next year.
Dalhousie is looking forward with
pleasure to welcoming a western team
here.

Two men have already been chosen to
visit England and Wales as the guests
of the N. U. S. there. These men are
from Universities of McGill and Toronto.

The N. F. C. U. S. is a new thing.
We do not stand far enough removed
from its beginnings to realize how great
a conception it is. Its possibilities are
unlimited. It will serve Canadian Education a _ significant advantage: It
educates in the real sense: It stands for
a broadening outlook. It sponsors a
deep and real Canadian consciousness.

It is to be hoped that when J. Gerald
Godsoe approaches the university authorities with regard to N. F. C. U.S. he
will meet wth every success that N. F.
S. deserves.

F. Can. Varsity Stad

FL
——

é

%

 

Presided

 

Miss Josephine Dresner, Vice President
of Sodales, who presided at last evening's
debate, in the absence o, Pres. Rod
MacLeod who has gone to Montreal to debate against McGill

 

Nominations For
Council Elections

EXCITING CONTEST PREDICTED

Nominations for the new Council
were completed last Tuesday. Twentyseven candidates will compete for the
twelve seats on the Council. Five
girls were nominated, of these only
three may be elected. Class ’31 has
a girl running against two boys, of the
three only one will be elected. In
Law two of its most popular men are
running for the same seat—Rod MacLeod and Bill Wickwire. In Arts
Murray Rankin and Ab. Smith are
running against each other for the seat
as Freshman Representative. This promises much interest.

The students have been greatly excited over the coming elections. The
vote is expected to exceed that of previous years: every student will be out
on Tuesday to vote for his representative.

ARTS
Class 731 (One to be elected)
Helen Williams, Tom Goudge, Orton
Hewat
Class ’30 (Two to be elected)
Wesley Stewart, Harvey Hebb, Margaret Jubien, Lillian Barnstead
Class ’29 (Two to be elected)

Marjorie MacLagan, Marion Cameron
Alison Cumming, Rae MacCunn

Freshman Representative

(One to be elected)
Ab. Smith, Murray Rankin

Engineers (One to be elected)

T. B. Akin, W. C. Bennett,
K. S. Ritchie

Commerce (One to be elected)

R. A. Laurence, P. A. Oyler
MEDICINE
(Two to be elected)

Fred Jennings, Leonard Farmer, R. I.
MacDonald, Dr. C. M. MacKenzie,
Bill Winfield.

LAW
(One to be elected)
R. H. MacLeod, W. N. Wickwire

DENTISTRY

— EE ee a

me

nts Doing Good

oo o¢

 

 

IA, MARCH 2nd, 1928

  

Work

ee

 

 

SKATING

The Council of Students has
obtained the Forum for this
evening and it will be open to
Dalhousians from seven to ten
p-m. At seven o’clock the Engineers’ Hockey team will meet
the Medical squad, after which
the ice surface will be open for
general skating. This will be
the third skating session of the
Let’s make it the best!

 

season.

 

Students’ Council
W orking Hard

A WHIRLWIND OF
BUSINESS

At a meeting Wednesday night Feb. 22
in the Forrest Building the Council
decided to hold a mass meeting; appointed the committee to choose the members for the Malcolm Honour Society;
adopted a report from Mr. Godsoe on
his trip attending the Federation of
students; adopted financial report from
Mr. McCunn on the Year Book; heard
a report on the committee attending
to the care of athletic gear; approved
March 5 for the Delta Gamma dance;
granted $150 more to the Year Book.

The meeting opened with Mr. Godsoe
in the chair. The minutes were read
and approved. The meeting began
with a report from Mr. Morton on
Theatre Night. The report stated
that there was a balance of $102.74.
Mr. McCunn moved the acceptance of
the report and a vote of thanks to Mr.
Morton for his assistance. The motion
carried.

Mr. Tupper in giving a report from the
equipment committee said that it had
decided that there would have to be a
man at the gym to look after the equipment alone. Each day he would hand
out the gear and check it off when it came
in. In this way the equipment could
be well cared for and none of it would be
lost. The Council decided that the
executive should bring the matter to
Dr. MacKenzie’s attention.

Mr. Godsoe said that he would have
nothing to report from the committee
appointed to deal with the Dal-Kings
student relations until after the first
of March. This ended the business arising out of the minutes.

Mr. Rankin read a latter from the
secretary of the Senate. The letter
contained an explanation regarding
Munro Day and the introduction of
Founders Day.

Mr. Godsoe made a report on the
National Federation of Students which
he attended during the Christmas holidays. He read the amendments to the
by-laws of the Federation. The Council instructed him to notify the Federation of the Council’s sanction of these
amendments. Mr. Tupper moved that
the report be adopted. Motion passed.

Mr. Godsoe read a communication
from Mr. Roper which suggested a
military training course for Dalhousie.
In this course eight or ten drills a year
for two years would qualify a student
for a commission. Mr. Smith moved
that the Council go on record as favouring this course.

Mr. Godsoe introduced the question
of compulsory physical training. ‘I’m
heartily in favour of it’ said Mr. Godsoe,
‘excepting students who participate in
sports actively.’ He went on to say
that all American colleges have compulsory physical training. Mr. McCunn
moved that the executive be authorized
to see the University about the introduction of this course next year.
The motion was passed.

The Council then appointed Miss
Gladwin, Messrs. Scott and Winfield
and Profs. Gowanlock and Wilson to
choose the members for the Malcolm
Honour Society.

The biggest question of the evening
was the Students’ Council Fee. It was
decided t hold a mass meeting, so that
the Council could present a budget to
the students and so that the students
could ask any questions concerning the
roposed raise. Mr. Godsoe said, that
if the fee were raised students would not
have to pay entrance fees to football

George MacIntosh, Murray Nicholson } basket ball games or any other games

 

 

udents Council Elections

ne eel

HERE NEXT

R. B. BENNETT

TT

— —>

HON.

      
    
         
 
 
    
    
 
 
 
 
 

   

THE OLDEST
COLLEGE PAPER
IN AMERICA

  

  

<—o

FRIDAY

TO VISIT COLLEGE

CELEBRATIONS FOR MUNRO DAY, IN COMMEMORAT
ION OF FOUNDERS AND
DALHOUSIE

ALL BENEFACTORS OF
UNIVERSITY

For some years the Senate of the University has been planning to establish
an annual ceremonial function in commemoration of the founders and benefactors

of Dalhousie University. Twenty years

ago we had the annual holiday known

as Munro Day in honour of Mr. George Munro whose benefactions to the univer
sity in 1879 aggregated about $350,000
Canada. ~ y
to the university that it seemed fitting th

and were at that time unparalleled in

During the last twenty years we have had so many great benefactions

at we should commemorate not only the

memory of Mr. Munro but also the other founders and benefactors.

 

J
+2

Loyal Grad yas |

 

 

   

Hono RB: Bennett; K. CC. M. Ps Pe CC.
93 who will be the princi pal
speaker here on Founder's Day

“Jim Is Still At the
Same Old Desk”

Yes sir, when Jim and I started to
work here, we were both clerks in the
shipping department. But I wanted
something better. How was I to better
myself? I didn’t know.

Then one day an advertisement caught my eye advising ambitious young
men to attend the Junior-Senior dance.
I was a little doubtful about this but
Dolly urged me on. ‘‘Go on Bill, try
it’ she begged. And I did.

Dolly and I went to the dance. Al.
Cummings and Jack Zwicker. had the
Gym looking better than ever. Joe
Mills and his orchestra were playing
away in fine style. The chaperones
were Mirs. H. P. Bell, Mrs. C. B. Nickerson and Mrs. A. S. Walker.

In fact the dance deserves a place
among the ‘‘best yets.”’

We had a wonderful time.

From then on I became a changed
man.

They made me manager today.

Jim is still at the same old desk.

held on the campus.

Mr. Winfield requested that something be done about not allowing students to attend convocation. ‘I don’t
see why students should not be allowed
to attend since it is a student affair was
his complaint. Mr. Godsoe told him
that the matter had been settled. Last
year about 75 tickets were distributed
among the students. This will probably be done again this year. Mr.
Godsoe pointed out that it would be
impossible to have more than 75 nonparticipating students attend.

Mr. McCunn read a report on the
Year Book. He requested $150 more
than their grant to complete the work.
His report read:

Total receipts.........% 1,240.00
Total expenditures..... $ 1,336.89

The original grant had been $150.
With the new grant they would have a
margin of about $50. Mr. Tupper
moved that the Council cover any
deficit up to $150. The motion carried.

An application from Delta Gamma to
hold its dance on the 5th of March was
granted. This was the last item of
business for the evening.

Mr. Garber moved that the meeting
adjourn. The following members were
present :—Messrs. Godsoe, Rankin,
Curry, Garber, McCunn, Scott, Smith,
Tupper and Winfield.

—P.O.:H.

   

 

In order to initiate this annual function, the university invited the Hon.
R.; B Bensett; KC. MiP Poe ae
graduate of this university of the class
of 1893, and now the leader of the
Opposition in the Dominion Parliament.
It is particularly fitting that Mr. Bennett should be the guest of honour at
this occasion. He is not only a most
distinguished graduate of the University, he is also one of our most generous
benefactors. In the past he has constantly befriended the University.. He

| presented the residence for the Pres| ident,
| tained the Bennett Collection of works

he has established and mainon legal history and jurisprudence in
the Law Library and he is taking the
initiative in promoting the establishment of a Weldon Chair of Law among
the old graduates of Dalhousie Law
School.

Mr. Bennett will arrive on Friday,
March 9th at 5.35 p.m. by the Maritime

Express. It is expected that he will
receive a suitable welcome from representatives of the Board of Governors,
the Senate and the students of Dal
housie.

The evening function will take place

in the gymnasium. The arrangements
are in charge of a*Committee of the
Senate, with the assistance of members
of the Board of Governors and of the
Council and other student organizations.
The doors will be open at 7.15 p. m.
Certain blocks of seats will be reserved
or members of the staff. of the university and their families and members of
the student body. These seats will be
held until 8 p.m. All the remaining
seats will be available to the public.
The formal part of the programme will
be preceded by orchestral and glee
selections by the Dalhousie Symphony
Orchestra and Choral Society. The
formal part of .the programme will
be as follows:

Processional by Orchestra and parade
of Academic party to the platform.

Overture by Orchestra.

Orchestra, Choir and Group Singing
“All Hail to Thee Dalhousie.”’

Address by the President.

Hon. Benjamin Russell, LL.D., K. C.,
Professor Emeritus introduces the guest
of honour. .

Address by the Honourable Richard
3edford Bennett, LL. B., LL. D., K. C.,
M. P.

Presentation of formal address by
J. G. Godsoe, B. A., President of the
Council of Students.

Orchestra, Choir and Group Singing.

God Save the King.

It is expected that the new chairman
of the Board of Governors will return
to Halifax in order to preside.

A knock at Law Library door.

Librarian: finds little girl with cat
in her hand.

Girl: Mithter,
lil titten?

Librarian: See the gentleman around
the corner! j

Good Luck !

On Wednesday morning the Montreal train bore away two hopeful warriors: Andrew Olding Hebb and Roderick MacLeod have gone forth to McGill
to a battle of thoughts on the vital
question as to whether Canada should
be given the right to amend her own
Constitution.

Anyone who has heard Hebb at
Sodales or more recently at Mock
Parliament; anyone who has listened
to MacLeod’s sonorous and pleasing
voice cannot but feel that Dal has good
reason to hope for victory.

On behalf of the Student Body the
Gazette wishes Good Fortune to Hebb
and MacLeod. May .they _ return
victors.

wanna buy a toot

 

 
  
   
   
   
   

ete et EO

 < i
eee
tye F

FRED C. JENNINGS ee
ss Exchange Editor _——S—S—S_—sSport Editor
ALLEN KATHERINE HANIFEN _J. W. WHALEN
hao 0 Associate Editors

- W. GORDON DUSTAN

_ "" MARGARET ELLS

Reporters

P. O. HEBB ~ ee F
R.A. DONAHUE ~
mee RK ALEEN

iia Circulation Manager
: S. W. ARCHIBALD
Business Manager _
~ RALPH S. MORTON
toy 52 Quin ¢ 1 Rd.
Phone Sac. 304
Subscription Rate. $1 00 per year

  

ee

f :
Election Day .
The Council of Students has appointed next Tuesday for the
ection of members to the Council of 1928-29. Booths will be
ocated in the Forrest Building and at Studley and every student
olds the right to vote for the candidates in his own faculty.
ould not think lightly of this right; rather should he hold it as
sponsibility. In order that we may have true representation it
iecessary that every student vote. There is no trouble of elabrate procedure to be undergone and failure to exercise his vote
ay be accredited only to the apathy of the student himself.
. On the other hand the Council should make adequate preparation for polling votes. A number of students have. complained
that, last year when they went to the booth to vote at noon, the only
pportunity they had todo so, the booth was empty and they were
unable tocast their vote. If the hours set for casting votes 1s from
9 a.m. to 5 p.m. then the booths should be open and should be
upplied with attendants during those hours.

. mer be Us oe,

Next week we shall be privileged and honored to have a visit
from an illustrious son of Dalhousie, when Rt. Honorable R. B.
‘Bennett will arrive here from Ottawa. He has been quite rightly
chosen as the principal speaker on Founder's Day, the day when _Dalousie pays tribute to all who have made it possible for the univery to exist as she is today. The list of benefactors to Dalhousie
engthy and in doing honor to them we only do them justice.
Mr. Bennett, besides being a graduate of the institution, 1s

so a generous benefactor of the Dalhousie, his munificence towards
he university having been experienced more than once. On
this, his first visit to Dalhousie since he has been chosen leader of
the Opposition, it is only right that we should extend
to him acordial welcome. Arrangements are underway to
make his visit here an enjoyable one. It is up, te ey
student of Dalhousie to take part in the demonstrations ‘arid t___ ivities that will be carried out in his honor, that we may extend a
i elc ing distinguished himself

 
     
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
   
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
  

ig nd

  
 
 

true welcome to a returning graduate who has
and brought honor to Dalhousie.

(ye

Not Yet Too Late lm

This, the seventeenth issue of The Ga:ette for the current year,
. gees the periodical well advanced along the fifty-ninth term of
) publication. There are but three more issues to be published for
this year. Have you submitted a contribution to Your Paper?
If you have you have benefited. If you have not, you have missed
your opportunity and neglected your duty. There is still time to
for you to respond. Three more issues have still to go to press.
The last group of four issues have yet to be judged as to the literary
merits of the different contributions therein. In these last three
weeks you are given the chance to see your own efforts in print.
You have the opportunity of contributing to the mouth piece of the
student body. It is not too late to begin. Your contributions will
be considered with the numerous others. We can never have too
many contributions as the more we have, the wider is our choice of
matter, the greater the diversity of thoughts and ideas and hence,
the broader and more embracing the scope of the paper. It is not
yet too late to do your duty by the college paper!

Question?

Seay a About this time many students are asking the questions,
_ “What have I got out of college; what improvement has been brought
about in me during the year; has it been worth the expenditure of
time and money that I have made?” Many other questions of an
_ allied nature enter, or should enter, the mind of the ordinary student
-_as he pauses at this stage of the journey, to review the past and to
look into the future. Upon the individual himself, and his own
efforts and activities will depend the answers to the above questions,
and now is the time to answer the question, to sum up and prepare
_ for the haulocaust of examinations which is soon to be upon us.
ian The good that we get out of college does not depend alone upon
circumstances extraneous to our own persons but rather upon the
metamorphosis of our interior selves which is brought about by a
_ wise selection of those extraneous circumstances. Environment
governs our lives, but at the same time, we can mould our environ‘ment to our own wills or, failing that, can choose new surroundings. The benefits or otherwise that have accrued to us during the
year have been due to our environment but as we of our own free
will choose that environment, the benefits—or otherwise—have been
_ due to ourselves.
First, have we chosen wisely the course to follow, the studies
to pursue? If so we have benefitted by our choice and the road to
intellectual development has been made just so much easier. Have
we chosen unwisely? Then our environment is wrong and by no
- means conducive to the furtherance of our mental well-being.
_ Therefore the sooner we change our course the better. This change,
however, should not be-made before we were sure that it was the
-ducational side of our envi:onment that was not conducive to
rimprovement. ‘Secondly, having chosen a course of studies suitable to our needs
d aspirations, have we chosen the other constituents of our environwith the same care and circumspection? If we have we can
srward to the coming test of our choice with a fair degree of

Jo 4

Fe

 
 
 
  
   
 
    
  
 
 
   
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  

1 ncipal constituent of our environment is the intellectual
life. | It is for what we can obtain from that side of the
we are a part that we came to Dalhousie. All

Kr
>
Te oes
Ea Ph teed co i ;

#

ees

|through the agency of

He

 

‘** Judge’ wants to know:
WHY PEOPLE pay money to weep
over an emotional movie?”

Well, why do they? Crying, as most
of us think of it, is anything but a pleasant sensation. Yet we all know the
person who seems to know of no more
enjoyable way of spending an evening
than ruining a perfectly good handkerchief over the fictitious griefs of the inhabitants of the community shadowscreen. Paradoxically, they.do get a
real pleasure from weeping. But it is
not, I think, the actual~shedding of
tears that gives them their, moneys
worth. That is a mere glandular reaction, which may as well be obtained
the humble
onion as by Humouresque, hailed as the
-weepiest photoplay ever produced. It
is rather that they are ‘touched’. The
emotions are stirred up and the sympathetic one weeps. But, the feelings,
—to make a fine distinction,—are not

| touched, there is no real grief. The

person who weeps at a picture-play is
moved only therefore by his or her,—usually her—emotions.

The stirring of the emotions Is a
natural bodily process; there are few
natural bodily processes that if not
carried to extremes, do not give the
sensation of pleasantness. We see,
therefore, wherein the /acrymose one
is satisfied with the evenings entertainment,—the pleasurable stimulation
of the emotions that he gets, without
the background of injured personal
feelings. In some people, certain kinds
of music have a similar effect upon the
tear-glands. In the ordinary person,
however, the feelings are reached most
readily through the sense of sight.

Few of us pause to consider while
watching a picture play on the screen,
that the cords of our emotions are
well uncovered, and are but waiting to
be struck, either harshly or gently by
the story unfolding before our gaze.
Yet this is true: it can be proved scientifically that our emotions are more
easily stirred through our eyes than
through any other sense organ. | Nature has given us the opportunity to
develop this characteristic, and we,
through our natural mode of life, have
completed the process.

We have found through actual experience that it is comparatively easy
to fool any or all of our senses of hearing,
feeling, touching, tasting, or smelling.
But we also have discovered it to be
‘extremely difficult to fool the eye. From
our very infancy, we have learned to
place our trust in the reality or unreality of things in our sense of sight.
Long before we have begun to utilize
in a practical manner, our other sense
perceptions, we have taken cognizance
of, have become affected by, and have
established the actuality of, our visible
surroundings. This belief in. the infallibility of the eye grows as we grow,
and as a result, when we become.adults,
and doubt what we have heard,.tasted,
touched or smelled, itvis- then entirely:
reasonable and natural for.us.to.say
“Show me.’ We must see inorder to
believe. ‘‘Seeing is believing.”

We look upon the magician as a
marvel, because he is able to do what
seems to us to be the impossible,—he
can deceive our very eyes. And it is
because of this ‘‘unerring’’ eye of ours,
this eye that has built up our confidence
with such long and unfaltering faithfulness, that we lay aside our doubts
and suspicions of the impressions which
it carries to our brain. We accept these
impressions without question as the
truth. There are, of course many experiments which may be made, to show
that the eye as well as the other senses,
may be at times grievously in error, but
from long habit rather than through any
conscious weighing of evidence, we are
prone to put our greatest trust in the
sense of sight.

Our conscious mind, which accepts
or rejects as it chooses, does not serve
as a barrier, as when the other senses

are involved. Our suspicions, which

would otherwise be aroused, are lulled,
and we do not have to use our reason.
The visual story at which we are looking
goes directly into the subconscious
mind, the real seat of the emotions.
Thus it is that the picture play has in
it the wonderful power to raise us to
great heights of emotional exaltation.

The movies, of course, do not depend
for their appeal entirely upon the tender
side. Often they i,spire anger, fear,
horror and admiration. People still
like to hiss the villain and applaud the
hero. In this ‘‘hard-boiled’’, self-conscious age, the theatres, perhaps, do not
reverberate us they used to. But wait!
Let us make a definite exception of the
Saturday matinee, when the audience
is made up largely of kids. There the
handsome, two-fisted hero is a hero
indeed, and the bold scheming ‘‘bad
feller” gets his just deserts in the certain

denunciation of the youthful and enth- | debate here tonight.

 
 
   
 

___ DALHOUSIE 6

.

 

   

A Day

To Mjg.

 
   
   
   
   
  
  

 

What will the dawn bring over the hills,

Blue-black in the feeble light?

Mice S Se Breezes that whisper; a warble that trills
usiastic vidience,—-(as William Lyon} From thickets; and birds in flight.
Phelps would. have us call it.) Nevertheless, every red-blooded person has,
away down inside him the precicely
same tendencies. For who has not
felt an ingrowing desire to warn the
heroine of impending doom, or to punch
the face of the sneering villain, who is
perhaps in ordinary life, the calm,
decent husband of the same ill-used
lady?

Nor must we omit that other very
important reactton,—the appreciation
of. the ridiculous. Not so very many
years ago, we‘leld our sides at the
antics of a corpulent gentleman making
frantic though unsuccessful efforts to
remove from his face the succulent
remains of a custard pie. These days,
however, are bringing to us a new kind
of comedy. ‘‘Slap-stick’’ is rapidly
giving way to the more subtle kind of
fun of situation rather than of pastry.
It is a far cry from Charles Chaplin’s
“Floor-walker’’ to his late production
“The Gold Rush.’’ The public are
becoming educated to’ better things.
Just as the buffoonery of the miracle
plays gave way to the comedies of
Shakespere and his successors, so is the
“ancient”? pie-slinging type of photocomedy making its last stand. The
thumbs of those that it once amused are
turned downward: stale and farewell!
It cannot be denied, of course, that
there is always a section of every community which is able to comprehend the
rare humor in a man’s slipping on a
banana skin. Their money, according
to the ideas of the astute producers,
is as good as anyone's and as a consequence, we may still strike a comedy
which in order to cater to this. class,
depends for its humor largely upon the
painfully obvious. Nevertheless, a new
day is coming when the thinking man
may laugh heartily at the screen comedian, and retail wholly his self-respect.

But humorous or tragic, the movies
exert a tremendous influence. Intelligent people are demanding and sometimes actually getting movies worthy
of their intelligence. We are given to
hope that the time is coming when
moving pictures will be transmitted by
means of radio. Next to printing, the
two comparatively new discoveries,
the movies and the radio are the most
potential factors for wider-spread education that we have at the present time.
With the combination of the two, easily
accessible to every person, who can
foretell the benefits to the people of

the world?
W.G. Dustan
What About It? the green little Freshettes at Shirreff
- | Hall, the other day. Why, it appears
It seems to me that the burning quest-4ithat.onei of them actually thought that
ions of compulsory P. T. and the raising| if. she couldn't get a room at Shirreff
of the Council fee ought to be corrected. Hall, she could get one at Pine Hill
Both are of vital interest to the stud-|-instead. She said it said so in the
ents, and are really closely connected |calendar. “She says to my friend that
If compulsory P. T. is instituted at|you'd:get' to know the boys so well if
Dal: (and ‘the majority of the students | you stayed at Pine Hill. Can you beat
realize its advantages and want it) then’} it?’
let the fee be raised to ten dollars; if not, My friend also says that she heard
let it stay as it is. A number of us, not} that the Telephone Company is. thinkhaving enough of the superiority com-} !g of offering to sell Murray Rankin’s
plex to go in for gym work, visit the little Freshette a monopoly of the ground
gymnasium only for dances and exams|,floor, telephone at Shirreff Hall for
Glee Club, that institution which, to ‘evéning use. Now wouldn’t that cramp
contradict a well-known ‘‘inspired’’ | you?
writer, is anything but “‘punk’’, together
with the valued copy of the ‘‘Gazette,”’
are the only benefits derived. from our
fees. I have even received less, being
unavoidably prevented from. taking
advantage of the two rink nights. I
do not see why I should have to pay
three dollars more each year for these
opportunities, however enjoyable and
interesting they may be. On the other
hand, if P. T. were ordained by the
authorities, I should feel myself put on
a par with the many other students of
“average’’ physical abilities, and all of
us in the same box, would gladly pay
a higher fee for training that would
enable us to enjoy the benefits of the
gym. without feeling embarrassed by
the performance of star athletes. The
$2,400 yearly increase in the council
fund would be rather more than suffic¢
Sorrow and sighing or frivolous joy;
Despair, or a hope new born,

Born in the silver and golden alloy
That gleams in the misty morn.

What will the morn bring over the rim
Of yon towering mauve-grey pile?
Longing for something distant and dim—

Success for a little while.

A raven’s wild call—a quickening*breathDesire for a wind-blown hill. at:

Contact with life—a vision of death, _
An hour to be calm and still. 3

What has the day rolled over the sky?

A task and a smile to see. 33
A deeper belief that God’s not on high,
But here on the earth with me.

—R. E. G.

Our Boarding House

   

Dear Lizzie:—Life at the boarding
house is just the same as the last time
I wrote you—maybe a little worse.

Mary and Betty and Annie and I
were in my room the other night discussing a little bit of everything, when
Agnes walks in with her face all plastered
up with grease and says “Shut up!’’
Can you beat it? Did you ever hear
a lady say “‘shut up’’ like that?

Then about one o’clock we decided to
satisfy the ‘‘inner man.’’ Annie says
she has some coffee in her room, so she
starts out to get it. She just gets as
far as the door when Agnes appears
on the scene again. She says she really
means it and if we don’t shut up she will
tell Mrs. Scwartz—Mrs. Scwartz, you
probably remember, is the landlady.

If it had stopped there it would have
been K. O. but the next day doesn’t
Mrs. Sewartz’s oldest girl tell me Agnes
has complained about us making an
awful noise. I was pretty much put
out I can tell you and hiked out to tell
the other girls. Mary was simply
hopping mad—in fact she got up and
hopped up and down the floor in an
Indian war dance. The others were
pretty mad too. If we hadn't paid
our.. board in advance we'd all have
moved out of this silence zone.

The ‘‘atmosphere’’ has been kind of
chilly lately and the other night Agnes
even objected to our shutting the door.
She gives mea pain in the neck.

One of my friends was telling me about

 

 

Love and kisses,

Eliza.

Sonnet To An Upstart

 

MusStache, thou unassuming bit of hair,
That coyly nestles just beneath my nose,
How much I owe to thee, nobody knows;
For were it not that thou wert settled
one there

[’d still be groping wildly in despair

Kor what I have at last. For I suppose
I’d_rather bear the merriment of those
Who, jeer, and those who may forbear,
Todaugh behind my back, than do with
: out
ient to cover any outlay for new and] 7} : :

_t S vy helpful presence. r < the
additional gym apparatus. The re- i ee I will think them
maining surplus could be then devoted | 7} ; edges =

> 1e fools that chortl :
to the improvement schemes, proposed oe tle -at thee. For I
by the Council, even, perhaps, to a rink. |oid a *-! That but for thee, Shy r rj
Anyway, we would feel as if we were] e A eo Growth, without
< evs

getting something for our money, and
after his skin, the nearest thing to a
man in his pocket.

The world would lack one masterpiece, —
Because I never should have written
this!

—A. M. P. —Geedee.

 

McGill Wins

Montreal, March 1. McGill defeated Dalhousie in an inter-collegiate

 

 

other elements are subsidiary and subordinate, but a wise choice
of these subordinate activities will do much to enhance the intellectual benefits to be obtained, just as an unwise choice will have

just the opposite effect.

Many students as the term goes on enter into and undertake
sO many activities that they become hopelessly involved and suffer} |}
the results of an overdose of environment.
choose our activities so that one shall not detract from the other,
rather that each will help the other.
the students enter into few or none of the activities outside the class- |
room. These persons are by no means getting the most out of their
True they may become steeped
education is altogether incomplete.

course.

of thought, endeavor and action

application to study with sacrifice of other activities is as unwholesome as any other exaggeration of undertakings.

The student who will benefit most by this year at Dalhousie
is he who has chosen a balanced course, suitable to his own requirements, along with a balanced set of activities, that conform to the
intellectual side of his environment.
body and mind and will be able to look back with pleasure upon the
past and ahead with assurance upon the future.

BANJOS

We should carefully

| Department.
On the other hand, many of])

in booklore but their
It should increase the scope
of the student. A too rigorous

454 BARRINGTON ST.

He will have improved his

 
     

a

STRINGED INSTRUMENTS
of every description

VIOLINS
GUITARS

BANJO UKES
BANJO MANDOLINS
UKULELES
MANDOLINS
TIPLES; EEC.

All these and many others may be f i
ss ound
Write an y und in our Small Instrument

regarding any in which you may be interested.

 

March 2nd, 1928

THE LIFE OF A |
LITTLE COLLEGE]

‘I
=

 
   

 
 

   
   

 

Class 29—30 will hold a party in the
Green Lantern next Thursady evening.

‘| Judging from the success of former

events this affair should be an enjoyable
one. Proceedings begin at 8.15 p.m.
and the Committee in charge have made
all necessary arrangements.

Identification Photos.

The day students at the University
of Toledo were required to furnish
a photograph for each instructor to
be attached to the class roles for the
purpose of facilitating the identification of the pupils. Not a bad idea
in some of the classes where the professors are absent-minded. —Tower.

Harvard Graduate
Addresses Lawyers

Russél E. Greene a graduate in International Law from Harvard Graduate School gave a very interesting talk
to the members of the Law School on
the United States and the World Court.

Mr. Greene referred to the Permanent
Court of International Justice as one of
the most magnificent gestures resulting
from. the world war. He advocated
extending the powers of the court and
related in detail the interesting procedure that obtains at present.

With regard to the attitude of the
United States, Mr. Greene lamented
the stand taken by the Senate which
adheres only with certain reservations
which have proved the stumbling blocks
to the United States entering the World
Court.

Mr. Greene however looks forward
to the time when the American people
will bring such pressure to bear on the
Senate that they will adhere to this
wonderful ideal of world justice.

The meeting was well attended and
James E. Mitchell on behalf of the Law
Society extended the appreciation of the
members.

It is interesting to note that Mr.
Greene is in Halifax as the guest of
Weldon Inn of the Phi Delta Phi Fraternity. He is himself president of
Province One of the fraternity.

lust Among Us Girls

“My DEAR, I’mallina QUANdary,
I MEAN I’m so worried I could ACTually SCREAM, I mean the Council
ELECTions are coming off SOON and
I SIMply CAN’T think WHOM I should
VOTE for—Isn’t it TERrible? I think
I would rather sit through a WHOLE
Political Science LECture than go
through THAT orDEAL again—I mean
I HONestly do! For how’s a girl going to
make up her MIND between MURray
RanKIN and AB Smith—I mean it
SIMply isn’t DONE. Murray has }
such a CHARMing little FRESHette
but THEN AB. looks like one of those
ADvertisements you see for ARrow
COllars and that REally IS a point in
his FAVour, don’t you think? But
my DEAR aren’t you getting TIRED
of this place HERE. Alice told me
YESterday that SHE thought even
if EVAN DID come back from New
York the place would SEEM dull I
mean the Hall is ABOUT as monOTonous as HERbie’s HIGHland HUmour
—We come out from eating that ABOMinable Sheppard’s PIE at SEVEN
every night and ALways find the SAME
reception room, with the SAME FIRE
place and the SAME blue CHAIRS
and the SAME winDOW SEAT with
the SAME John waiting for MARY and
the SAME Freddie waiting for ANNE
and the SAME HARDY waiting for
ALLENE and the SAME AL and the
SAME GEORGE waiting for the
SAME MOLLY! but I think the Delta
GAMma show will LIVen things up
from what I HEAR of the DIRty wisecracks that are going in it—I MEAN
the one about Eileen CAMeron saying
she JUST LOVED curry—but WAIT
my DEAR til I tell you the LATest—
do you KNOW that they havea NEW
name for Bill DENnis since the JUnior-SENior dance—-they call him the
CAMpus CUT-UP!! My DEAR I

 

 

thought I’d PASS out when I heard it—
I mean isn’t it just TOO cute, I MEAN
don’t you think it’s HILariously FUNny, I mean I ACtually laughed Aloud
when they TOLD me, I mean I HONestly DID!”

 
 
   
   
       
    
 

 
   
  

NL ||| This is the true story of Yola, the
|| | Japanese maiden, and Nopper of Nip
~
r

‘Parlors east of
—and only then out! All our operators
por s—in.
Culture,

ermanent wave.

. 3830 for appointment
. WOOD BROS Co.,

Limited

We will send a Brick
anywhere at anytime.

Young Men _
— $2.00 each

New Address

qt Barrington Street
pp. Church of England Institute

Mt - Hi gh Quality Standard
mak es out Low Price
Doubly Attractive
ITS, _OVERCOATS
ULL DRESS and

_ TUXED®, at one

a, oo pfice
ASE are eae Se

le , + ‘ mu‘
ae “ z at 2 at
a, ds Ue ;
. ies a eee
* ee oe
a ee, .
"ry a 7 a
Nog ee i es:
ca 2 Pa =

___- MADE-TO-MEASURE___

fet

{— STUDENTS’ TAILORS

- dmess is to give customers
-. what they  want—when
| they want it.

| JOB AND SOCIETY PRINTING

_ always delivered when
promised at the

| NOVA PRINT Ltd
| 227-229 Hollis Street
oe Block North of Post Office

Small Musical _ Instru-ments and Victor Records

FICTION LENDING LIBRARY

2 cents per day

a ‘McDonald Music Co.

| 93 Barrington St. Halifax

| JEWELLERY

- We enjoy the distinction of
_ making practically all Dalhousie

~ Class Jewellery.
We appreciate the trust placed
| in us by the Dalhousie students
_and in turn always assure them

of our very best service.

|) HENRY BIRKS & SONS
a ahs LIMITED

and Sports ¥ ear

=e

|

'
'

. Top Tailors |

'

|] | whole story away at

| before the plot has been developed, and
| plot is like a pair of trousers without a
| belt,—they both fall flat.

| this story is true, because “Truth hurts,”
-|the proverbs say, and whenever I tell

to continue,—

-|that is, her father grew silk worms and
sold their overcoats to make beautiful

| Yola had no beautiful dresses to wear

| of worms which stretched out in endless

|| dreams of a brave Nipponese knight

i ished plight. 4
| under the bayberry tree with her thou|| ghts and her worms, the man of her
| dreams passed the farm.
| nized him, for his image was indelibly

f at once.

iui \
MR he oot ST ee oe! ok to a 25 * : eae.
os PDs lion G a"? Rate ae A col My ig : :
i e's: ; ‘ay 4 = ao r . ,
k % il . > : - , ? 2
. + ° R ~ >
% cs z 7 a‘? 2 > ~-* ; &
ae se * F
ere Wind or cae Fad
- ; f : .

bayberry bushes, stumbling over beams

 

 
  
 
   
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
   
  

‘cocoon in sight. . This she thrust into
Noppers hip pocket and they stole a
stealthy look at the house, stole softly
out of the gate and stole swiftly up the
road and stole into the distance where
they lived for many a day, I trow.
—_—————_ >" - :

‘pon, who—but there, I nearly gave the
the beginning,

we all know that a story without a

However,

Women and Humor

Editor’s Note—The following is not
necessarily the opinion of “The Gazette”’, but is printed as an example
of the attempt to define the indefineable,
to limit the illimitable, to ‘‘unscrew the
inscrutable’.

Humor has been variously defined,
but it is now generally accepted as being
the power of discovering and appreciating the ludicrous. The humourous
‘person must be sympathetic and before
he can perceive the pathos of a situation
he must have a reasonably clear understanding of human nature.

_The poor woman is kayoed in the
first round! How can the = average
modern woman (i. e. the flapper) be
stimulated by the deep feelings and
noble sentiments which are so closely
associated with sympathy, when she is
so shallow-minded, fickle and flighty,
and at the same time is quite incapable
of making fine ethical distinctions or
doing more than one thing at a time?
The assumption is ridiculous on the
face of it—blood cannot be extracted
froma stone.

Unconsciously enough women are
very humorous (to men) but they don’t
really mean to be. Question a woman
as to the momentous argument which
turned the tide and gained her support
in favor of a particular political party
and she will probably answer in all
seriousness that Mr. representing
the Progressives had ‘just the darlingest
little curl over his left ear’.
mouse will cause nearly any woman to
perform a very intricate and_unladylike series of athletic gyrations all

this anecdote to my room-mate, he
assumes the most pained expression,
like one who has missed out on a bid to
the Delta Gamma Dance. However,

 

Yola was the daughter of a silk farmer;

dresses for beautiful ladies. But poor
because there had come a great slump
in her father’s business due to lack of
demand. The worms had gone to the
dogs, so to speak. Fashion had made
a change and instead of fifty-one million,
seven hundred and thirty-two thousand,
eight hundred and forty-three silk worms
being butchered to satisfy a female’s
desire for a new frock, only some two
million of hard working insects were
required. _

Hence the poor demand for silk and

hence the poor conditions under which
Yola and her poor widowed father lived.
They were too poor to hire any help
so Yola had to do all the chores that
would ordinarily have fallen to the lot
of a farm boy.
- Each morning she arose from her
hard wooden couch before the crack of
dawn sounded through the sleeping
village and went about her duties. She
picked up the worms that fell off the
Bayberry leaves during the night and
returned them to their families. Then,
after milking their one cow, she would
feed skim milk to all the little baby
worms, brush the dust off the cocoons
of the older worms and then she would
count up the wormy population of the
worm-eaten farm.

It was then time to awaken her hardworking father in order that he might
partake of his noon day meal, in time
to enjoy his afternoon nap.

Often, after the day’s work was done,
the two would discuss in Japanese their
hard lot and try to devise means of
bettering their conditions. Finding no
solution for their problem they would
swing into Chinese then into Nipponese
and finaily into Knocknese.

But all to no avail. They could see
nothing in the future but long years

 

the more stoical sex is unfortunate
enough to be in the vicinity of the disaster, he is apt to find himself emulating
the experiences of Laocoon—or mouse!
A female creature wearing high rubbers
or even decked out in Russian boots
will pick her way across a damp street
for all the world like a blue persian cat.
Our dear sisters feign abhorence at
scenes of violence and promptly faint
at signt of blood, but from a safe distance (approximately three blocks) just
watch two women in active disagreement. The ambitious young man who
presents his fiancee with a modest
little bouquet of flowers receives a
gushing effusion of gratitude which
immediately transports him to Elysian
fields, but the martyred husband who
donates a conservatory to his wife has
to be content with a ‘‘pale’’ smile and
the florist’s bill at the end of the month.
Drive past your fair damsel in a Packard and note how she will ‘‘pose prettily”’
for a ride, but try and pick her up with
Henry’s latest model. All these inexplicable female inconsistencies provide a rare element of humour to the
innocent male spectator yet viewed
from the female standpoint they are as
serious and natural as the student
attending Latin 2.

All ages and all countries have contributed something to the world’s fund
of humourous literature. The very
cream of humour is embodied in Falstaff, a production of Shakespeare's
master mind. Dicken’s books are
replete with humourous sketches and
among the more modern writers Mark
Twain stands out as the foremost interpreter of the latent comedy present,
to a greater or lesser degree, in everyone of us. There is one very significant
factor common to all the humourous
books in the world of literature—invariably the writer is a man!

There are a few unauthentic cases on
‘record in which it is alleged that a genuine, original wise crack was engendered
in a female mind, but in every single
instance the unfortunate woman was
afterwards found to be of abnormal
mental development and possessed of
other qualities no less characteristic of
the masculine sex. Humorous skits
involving their figure or age are absolutely tabou among women, and unless
a man can do the century in ten flat,
he would as soon take a chance on jumping from the Eiffel Tower as on asking
a woman the number of years which
have elapsed since her birth. Strangely
enough, the graeeful lines, soft curves,
delicate poise (chiefly due to high heels),
and exquisite daintiness supposed to
characterize the female figure, have
afforded mankind mirth
genuine humour than any other commodity yet discovered.

From this pairistaking investigation
a rather paradoxical conclusion must be
drawn,—women have absolutely no
sense of humour but they are in themselves the very essence of humour! This
would be an extremely stale one without any humour, and it was certainly
a very fortuitous concatenation of circumstances which provided men with
the faculty of appreciating the comic
strain in life. Only the most optimistic
seers anticipate an age in which women
will .possess a sense of humour, and
after all, as the poet has said:

‘« “Tis true, perfection none must hope

monotony.

Often as Yola went about her daily
tasks she would sit down in the shade
of a bayberry tree and, forgetting all
about her worms would dream rosy

who would rescue her from her impoverOne day as Yola sat

She recog
imprinted on her brain. He had the
most affectionate eyes,—they were always looking at each other,—while his
ears stuck out proudly from both sides
of his head. His long arms were folded
upon his chest to keep them from dragging in the dust, while his feet covered}
the ground at an excessive rate,—two
square feet to the step.

As the youth approached, his wandering gaze met that of Yola’s. The two
gazes crashed in mid air and with a loud
report fell to the ground where they
remained quivering for some time.
Then the man and the maid tenderly
lifted their gazes from where they fell
and bent them back into shape and

upon each other. Long they looked
into each others eyes until Yola could
stand it no longer. She dropped her
eyes to the ground and they rolled into
a swath of grass and in confusion she
bent down to look for them.

The stranger came up and joined in
the search all the while keeping one eye
on Yola while, with the other he searched
diligently for the fallen optics.

Yola finally raised her eyes from
where they lay in two pools of love and
backing into a bayberry root gracefully
performed a back handspring over it
while the stranger followed her with
his affectionate eyes which made her
appear doubly beautiful.

It was love at first signt, second sight,
hotel site and parasite.

“Oh, beauteous maiden,’ cried the
enraptured youth, “I am Nopper of
Nippon. I have travelled thus far in
search of my beloved, my predestined
one, whom I saw in a night-mare some
moons ago. Behold, as I look into your
eyes I see again the vision of my nightmare. ‘‘Who art thou?”

“T am Yola,” the maid replied, ‘‘And
I too, have dreamed of thee. I make no
mistake, for there is, in all the world,
no other face like thine. Since our dog,
Yaki, died, your image has taken his
place in my heart.”

The two young people then tell into
a conversation in Japanese from which
they emerged with difficulty as the
subject was a deep one. They told
each other of their deep love and Nopper
blowing a smoke ring, slipped it on
Yola’s finger when she was not looking.

And so they became engaged, and the
moon fairly danced for joy, across the
sky from north to south, throwing a
mellow light down, which the lovers
dodged with difficulty.

Nopper then told his love of his ow® to find :
extreme poverty. He had eked out a In all or age much less in womanind.

pecarious living by diving for pennies
thrown from ships that entered the bay
where he lived. One day a steamer from
Scotland entered and the passengers
threw pennies in the water. Nopper,
after becoming entangled under water
in the wire attached to one of these
pennies, decided that this life was too
dangerous and he became a wanderer.
Together the pair planned to elope
They would steal away at
once, be married by the mandarin,
the Khudi or the justice of the peace
and start a silk farm of their own.
For the latter purpose Yola decided
to steal a silkworm from her iather's
farm. She hunted around among the

—J!M. B. ‘29,

 

UNIVERSITY OF MANITOBA

HUDSON’S BAY COMPANY RESEARCH FELLOWSHIP

The above fellowship, 6f the annual valu: of
$1,500.00, tenable at the University of Manitoba,
in any branch of pure or applied,science, open to
graduates of any Canadian University, will be
filled for 1928 about May 1st. Applications
should be in the hands of the Registrar of Manitoba University, Winnipeg, Manitoba, by April
ist. Further particulars on application.

Address, THE REGISTRAR,
University of Manitoba,
Winnipeg, Manitoba

th arace Oye

of moonlight until she found the largest |

A mere

in one breath, and if any member of

more | I

Far . a Reet e
Me hg’ i pe pie sy os ra Neh “
5 8 = ie eA ee ; Peis i
: ao Wa ts be
é i = Say. 07, Bice ePR Ee = 54
a Nee Pate LE 1 Te PM. Yen eat a hee OS xa
Sn Wy 2 eo Saori ie oa ,
o a = ta * “ oe — 4
hs) ne} 3 * SS ieee eet: Se
ey F ' et Se no f ~ , z mis har ti . - sh 3 J
yd tte ee = ‘ : ee - : : ‘ *

 

Dreamer sitting in the sun
Dreaming till his life id done;
Worker, plodding in the blast
Toiling till his days are past!
Worker hath no time for dreaming
Dreamer hath no time for working, .
Worker seeth Duty, gleaming
Dreamer hath no shame in sulking
Hark! dreamers, full of whine and
whimper

_ A man is not of your limp temper
Enough, enough of fancy-wooing,
Do, do and be forever doing.

———_—$——————

| A NAUTICAL ERROR |

I was returning from Europe on the}

S. S. Satanic, last October and by the
third day on board I was beginning to
get fed up. The Satanic is not a large
boat and the management do not provide as much amusement for the passengers as do the management of the
A uitania and boats of her class. On
the Satanic one plays shuffleboard, takes
a promenade around the deck, has a
chat and plays more shuffleboard,
varying the program with a meal or a
sleep. Some of the more sporting
passengers play poker incessantly in
the smoker, but I find it too unprofitable.

Having played shuffleboard and promenaded, and promenaded and played
shuffleboard for three days, I thought a
change would be agreeable. There was
quite a good sized passenger list. Why
not a ship’s concert? I spoke to the
Purser about it as he usually collects
the talent. The Purser, however asked
me if I would look after it as he was
pretty busy.

I immediately started to make up a
program from the talent on board;
Lord Bairnford consented to act as
chairman and by much coaxing and
wheedling I persuaded eight people to
appear the following evening.

Among the people with whom I had
become acquainted on board was one
J. S. Robinson, an English gentleman
of leisure who was coming to New York
on a pleasure trip. He was rather shy
and said that although he would like to
help out in the concert he could not do
any parlor tricks. I assured him that
if he would help out, I would teach him
some sort of an act. He consented to
this at length and I decided to teach
him an impersonation of Bob Marky,
the celebrated English comedina in
his village curate act, as I had otenf
done it myself in amateur theatricals.
Robinson seemed to pick it up quite
well, having a good memory for his
lines, and J] saw that if he did not ge
stage fright he would be a wow. :

I was one of the busiest people on
board the next evening, reassuring the
chairman that he did not have to make a
speech, finding out if the amateur conjuror was No. 6 or No. 7, making up my
friend, and trying to remember my own
act. I had little difficulty in getting

Robinsen’s make-up on; I slapped on,

the juvenile and the carmine, made the
big eye-brows and applied the liner,
then I slipped on the silver-rimmed
spectacles and there stood the image of
Bob Marky.

The concert was a huge success. True
the conjuror broke up the Purser’s
watch instead of the fake one, and the
man reciting ‘‘J Rule the Spanish Main”
got sea-sick and had to leave just after
the part that runs:

‘“T brave the wildest tempest,
Nor do I fear the gale... .”’

But these were trifles. Robinson was
No. 5 on the program and I was No. 7,
consequently I could not see all of his
act, but I caught scraps of it as I was
making up:

‘a collection for the poor unfortunates living in the uninhabited
parts of the world....”’

He seemed to be doing fairly well for
a novice and the audience were enjoying
it.

‘then Mr. Totwiddle made a

speech during which the meeting i

adjourned....”’
I was getting prouder of my pupil
a; he went on:
«you will find the curate for
next Sunday hanging from the
front door knob... .”’
He finished amid an outburst of

applause and as I came off after doing | jF
my turn J could not help mentioning to | }

several people that I had taught him
his act. They had been so amused by
him that they all smiled at me when I
said this.

After the concert I was chatting with
one of the passengers:

“Robinson did well, didn’t he?” said

‘Rather!
now.”
‘Why not?”

“Haven't you heard? Just after his|}

act the Purser announced that our

friend Robinson was Bob Marky, the

English comedian, travelling incog.
Quite a surprise, what?”’

Everything went black except my
face which became a flaming red. I[
had tried to teach one of the world’s
greatest comedians to do his own act!
I said good-night hastily and scuttled
down the deck to my cabin where I
remained for the rest of the trip.

—W. G. A. ’29.

D. A. AC.
ANNUAL MEETING

THURSDAY MARCH 12th.
In the Munro Room

 

Election of Officers
for Coming Year

 

Dol - “py

    
     

 

   
 

_ THREE PHONES.—

The ROYAL PRINT & LITHO Ltd.

But we don’t call him that |}

 

 

-a party may bea bore -the lady of

one’s choice may be dancing with another

-yet there's still a morsel of satisfaction in
the dreariest festivities for the man

(ee hay

ZY. POKER”
ee VAN

STUDENTS’. ELECTRIC
LAMPS AND SUPPLIES

FARQUHAR BROS, LID.
Barringt6n Street

95 Argyle St. Phone Sack. 195

The RossPrint Ltd

Printers, Publishers, Bookbinders

We Specialize in Society Printing of all kinds, such as

YOU CAN BUY
SOCIETY

BRAND

INVITATIONS
CLOTHES ANNOUNCEMENTS
DANCE PROGRAMS

‘Always first in quality
Very moderate prices
Publishers of
Cameron’s ‘“‘Regional Anatomy’”’
Cameron’s‘‘Osteology & Arthology’

Winter-Burns Ltd |

437 BARRINGTON STREET

 

—

NOVA SCOTIA
NURSERY

1088te, 1090;Batrington St.

 

Photographers

 

&

18 Spring Garden Road]

  

Cut Flowers, Bouquets and all
Floral Work...

 

Phone’ Sac. 692

PROGRAMMES MacLEOD, BALCOM
and other JOB PRINTING hw ete
receive our special attention 34 MorrisSt. 174 Spr. Garden Rd.

103 Young St. 139 Agricola St.
Cor. Quinpool Rd. and Oxford St.

HALIFAX, N.S.

YOUR

CENTRAL—The nearest Barber Shop to:the College.

SERVICE—Always four experienced barbers in attendance

‘Satisfaction,.Guaranteed

Special Bobbing Parlors

For Ladies

A.PUBLICOVER

23 Spring,;Garden Road

TWO BOBBER SHOPS
FIRST CLASS SERVICE

The Home of the Shingle

| MAJ ESTIG’ THEATRE
BUILDING

and
Corner GEORGE and
BARRINGTON STS,

Don’t Neglect Your Appearance

 

~~

MHE PRINTING DEPARTMENT of the §
Imperial Publishing Co., }
Limited, is*famous for the |
quality of its press work,
on Booklets, Catalogues,
and all kinds of Job FPint- §
ing. Sih

Telephone Sackville 1017 f

Dalhousie Stationery

24 Sheets Writing Paper
stamped with the Dalhousie Crest and 24 Envelopes to match.

Special 50c a Box

Connolly's Book Shop
487 BARRINGTON ST.
Opposite St. Paul’s Church

HUBLEY’S

DRY CLEANING, DYING AND

PRESSING for ANYTHING in

VALET MUSIC
Ee Taketh: fee c= SO es e Spring Garden Rd.
52 Sackville Street, Phone S i09 alifax, : : Canada

All DalhousieStudents

especially the Book Lovers
are cordially invited to make

THE BOOK ROOM
114 Granville Street
their Headquarters

Globe Laundry Ltd

50 Buckingham Street

G.W.SPRAGUE, Vice-Pres.
C. W. SPRAGUE, Pres.

The College Students’
Laundry

Telephone Sac. 714

Come in and browse and
make yourself at home.

E. VICKERY, Manager.

  

Gauvin& Gentzel

Bob Johnson’s

 

tHE SONG SHOP +r».

 

 

 

 

|

bs]

 

 

 
    
 
  

March 2nd, 192

  

Mei Blnnate |COMWERGE AN
Dents in Hockey} _

A

TWO WOMEN IN CAST OF
“BEAU SABREUR”’

Majestic

There are only two feminine principals in ‘‘Beau Sabreur,’” spectacular
sequel to ‘‘Beau Geste,” which is to be
projected on the screen at the Casino]
theatre commencing Monday. *.These| #

COMMERCE
_MEDS IN FINALS

“Sc A BA Bo
SERIES TOMORROW AFTERNOON

 

 

THE SCALPEL SWINGERS WILL
MEET THE ENGINEERS TO.

       
   
     
   
   

   

THU. FRI. & SAT.

 

    

 

 
   
   
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  

fe NIGHT FOR FINAL HONORS. - 1
S Last Saturday the final games in the ote Va ee by pers pres 3s MARION DAVIES -&
See Ses $e =| In an elimination series in Inter-|regular schedule were played with eas ey e ode cara E owk sa Das EL GLAS 3
TS YELLOW AND BLACK|.,CONGRATULATIONS to the Y. Medicine and Commerce being declared | ja; dice tribal Eel a Joan|f| > ic
N SECOND POSITION M. C. A. Basketball team! The Y winners of their respective sections. | cranding, cast as the Cockney maid,|f! THE FAIR CO-ED

The play-offs between Medicine and
Commerce for the championship will
begin to-morrow. It was decided that
the best two games out of three will
decide the league. #4 PGB 90 > TEES,

Medicine won their section by defeating the Lawyers 18—13 in a close,
hard fought battle.

The Commerce five won over the
Theologs in the most exciting game of
the year. At the conclusion of the
first half the Theologs had a commanding lead and it was only by staging a
brilliant rally that the Commerce

which resulted in a win for Medicine
the score being 7—2. The first period
opened with Dentistry playing only
five men and for the first half of the
period did very effective work against
Medicine. Tupper the big defence
man of the Dents drew first blood by
denting the twine behind Richardson
on a beautiful wind shot. The count
was soon evened by a nice piece of combination when Kelly MacLean skated
past the defence and passed to Townsend who sent the disc to the far corner
of the net. Within a minute of this

won the championship of the Halifax
City League last Saturday evening by
taking a hard fought game from the
Tech Club and thus winning the title
and the right to enter the provincial

cre 46-00. “het play-offs. In doing this the Y quin
er in ae Tech a Ae tette showed enleidid form, not having
Pe ceed lace we thie leanne, The. ¥. M. | 0et 2 gamle in the league. | True they
ae C.K Laggan turing the championship didn’t win any of their important games
_— whei ‘they Bee neat Tech 26—24 in| by large scores, ‘but when the keen
| ___ the first senior game of the evening. | Competition supplied by Tech and Dal
- Dalhousie and Tech will play tomorrow | ‘S$ considered, po ap of the Red and
ee cecaad laces in the leacue. The| tite team is all the more noteworthy.
: We wish them every success in the

Maudie. | Th
This same condition existed in ‘‘Beau | e greatest college comedy
ever made

Geste.”’ There were but two women!f
in that story, which was also from the}
pen of P. C. Wren. They were Alice] ff
Joyce and Mary Brian, but their char-|§
acterizations were more or less sub-|] MON. TUE. & WED,

ordinated by the great theme of brother-| ff THE LAST COMMAND

per IN. SEUNANFINSA

So WEEE TECH..
‘In the second game of the evening the Dal Basketball quintette won
over the St. George’s five by the score

 
 

ly love. In “Beau Sabreur’’ the love|
is an equally strong one, but itis divided}
between a girl and the hero’s country. +

Gary Cooper plays Henri Beaujo-| ff
lais, of the Foreign Legion who is trans- | ff
ferred to secret service duty on the vast | }

C,

Sse with |

regularly scheduled game between the
- Y and St. George’s will also be played
_ The game between Tech and Dal looms
up as a hard battle and it is generally
considered that yo i gg ae Be
up a great game for the privilege 0
ae tet in the standing. The
- Technical Club are confident of a win
but the Tigers, who held them to a
draw in their first game, are determined
to come off the floor with flying colours.
_ Everything considered the game should
_ bea corker and well worth seeing.

 
 
  
   
   
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  

The Dal—St. Georges tussle last
- Saturday was a rather listless affair
- with the Tigers dominating throughout
and taking things easy for the greater
part of the play. The Saints took an
€ early lead but it didn’t last long and the
first session ended with the score 15—10
in favour of Dalhousie. In the second
period the Tigers continued to hold
their advantage and the game ended
36—29 for Dal. Davidson was the
heavy scorer for the Tigers. He was
very much on with his shots but showed
an inclination to hog the leather on
some occasions. He played a good
game though and is fast becoming a
valuable member of the Dal. team.
Hughie Ross followed Davidson in
- points scored and played well: throughout. He showed particular aptitude
in sinking his free throws. In fact he
is the best man on the Dal line-up in
that phase of the game. The re- mainder of the team turned in their
usual good work with Clyde Sperry
showing to advantage on the defense.
_ They lined up as follows:
- Davidson 17; Goudge 1; MacLeod 5;
Ross 13; Sperry; Jones; Smith.

TECH. vs. Y. M. C. A.

 

pees ee iY the opening game the Tech Club

by the different supporters. The Y,
; a have yet to be defeated, got away
- to a whirlwind start and ran up fifteen
points beforé Ed Brown scored Tech’s

. irst_noint on a neat shot from under the
‘basket. With the score 15—0 against
them the chances of the Tech team looked pretty glum. It was only by staging
‘one of the finest rallys seen in the Y
this year that the Engineers were able
to overcome the Y’s lead. In doing
so they scored 17 points to the Y’s
Needless to say the Tech support
 

Provincial play-downs.

The question raised in this column
last week regarding the eligibility of
Jack Thomas, erstwhile coach of the
Tech squad, has caused some sort of a
furor among the supporters of the Blue
and Grey five. Naturally these supp-orters objected to anything that might
injure the strength of their team.
Their objections seem to imply that any
doubt of Mr. Thomas’ eligibility to
play was unsportsmanlike. I contend
that the playing of Mr. Thomas was
unsportsmanlike. And here’s why:

In the first place Tech claimed that
they entered the league as a club. In
other words it is not Technical College
that plays in the league but the Nova
Scotia Technical Club. A searching of
any of the newspapers fails to disclose
any reference to the Technical Club.
In plain English any honours gained by
this team go solely to the N. S. Technical
College. We do not begrudge the glory
that their team may bring to their
College but to add to that, or to attempt
to add to it by the inclusion on their team
of a player who does not go to Tech at
all is NOT sportsmanlike. The writer
knows just as well as the next fellow
that the Technical College athletes
labour under a disadvantage that does
not exist, for instance, at Dalhousie.
That is, they have, comparatively
speaking, a very small number of students from which to select a team. It
is a handicap not to be overlooked.
Tech, I have been told, has an enrollment of around fifty students. Dal
has around 800. Now the obvious
conclusion is that Tech haven’t a chance
to put up a team to compare with Dalhousie. On the face of the facts presented it would seem incredible that the
worthy Tech Institution could produce
a team capable of holding their own
with a team from a University of over

nay the betters, of Dalhousie. In
Raymond, Brown, Hayden, MacKenzie,
Lane, Allen, Tech have a team superior
to what one would expect from so small
a College.

“In having such a crack basketball })

five the Tech boys merit credit.. They
can hardly be called inferior to the Y
team the champions of the City League.

But, regretable to say, Tech were not ||

satisfied with their Basketball stars.

With a splendid chance to win the City | §
league ahead of them they !et their]]

Kelly MacLean doubled the score by a
nice individual rush and wing shot.
Just before the period ended Kelly
MacLean scored again on a pass from
Townsend. Period ended 3—1. The
score during this period was held to 3
by the brilliant work of ‘“‘Skit’’ Oldfield
the Dent’s net guardian.

In the second period Dentistry acquired another player. Within a few
minutes of play Ian MacDonald rushed
down the ice and shot through the
defence making the fourth counter for
Medicine. The Dents were not idle
and repeatedly shot at Richardson,
who stopped some beautiful ones.
“Skit”? Oldfield was also on the job
and some minutes elapsed before Bernie
Miller with a nice piece of stick handling
added to the Med’s score. This roused
the Dents to further action and Gerry
Keefe in an end to end rush made a
total of 2 for Dentistry with a beautiful
shot. Earnie Doull retaliated with a
long shot which evaded Oldfield and
raised the score to 6 for Medicine. The
final score of this period was made by
Kelly MacLean in a flashy bit of individual play. The third period was
scoreless. In this period both Oldfield
and Richardson were called upon to
stop several hard shots which they did
like veterans. The outstanding players for Dentistry were ‘‘Skit’’ Oldfield,
and Gerry Keefe. For Medicine Kelly
MacLean was the flashy boy having
3 goals to his credit. This win puts
Medicine in line for the championship,
having defeated Law on Monday last,
by a score of 6—2. The final play-off
is with Engineers on Friday, March 2.

Line-ups: ;

Dentistry—Goal: Oldfield, Defence,
Keefe and Tupper, Forward, Cragg,
Sullivan and Taylor.

Medicine—Goal: Richardson, defen
‘ce, MacDonald, MacLean, Anderson;

 

   

 

faculty hockey, Medicine met Dentistry
on Monday night, Feb. 27 in a

quartette were able to even matters up
and, eventually, win out.

A large crowd is expected to turn out
for the first play-off game to-morrow
afternoon.

SHE’S FAIR CO-ED, BUT ONLY
IN LATEST FILM

 

For the peace of mind of college
professors it is a good thing that Marion
Davies is a co-ed only on the screen.

This charming actress proves her
ability for being a thorn in the side of
college faculties by her work in ‘“The
Fair Co-ed,” her latest starring production which is playing at the Majestic
Theatre.

The story was written by Byron
Morgan from the famous stage play
by George Ade and Gustav Luders,
and was directed by Sam Wood, who
handled the directorial end of ‘“‘Red’’
Grange’s ‘‘One Minute to Play,” and
many of Wallace Reid’s film successes
based on athletic sports.

Johnny Mack Brown has the leading male role in this story of modern
college life from a feminine angle.
Brown is ‘a newcomer to the screen
but was formerly star halfback on the
University of Alabama’s famous ‘‘crimson tide’ football team two seasons
ago.

 

To readers of

The Dalhousie

Gazette

we recommend

THE REXAL

1 DRUG STORE

For everything in

Drug Store Needs

 

Sahara.
Beery, William Powell, Arnold Kent,
Mitchell Lewis and Roscoe Karns.

WINNERS

Chief in support are Noal

Che
Halifax Chronicle

AND

The
Halifax Daily Star
The

fastest growing
newspapers in
Nova Scotia

Start

For 60 years the REACH Trade
Mark on Sporting Goods has been
a mark of perfection. No matter

 

_ what your favorite sport may be, we

can supply you with equipment that
will help you play the game with
the best that’s in you.

 

|

I Gieorge F. Power

Cigars, Cigarettes, Tobacco
SMOKERS’ REQUISITES

1

 

 

 

rom the

=
:

 

      
     
   
       
       
     
         
      
     
     
    

THIS THU-FRI-SAT.

TOM MIX

in
‘“*SILVER VALLEY”

OUR GANG COMEDY
‘The Trail of the Tiger’

“Beau Sabreau”’
The answer to ‘‘Beau Geste’’
with
Gray Cooper Evelyn Brent
Noah Beery William Powell
Bristling Action. Flaming” Love.
Roaring Fun. Filmed.on the same
sweep.ng scale as “Beau Geste”’

NT

ORPHEUS

MON. TUE. & WED.

IRENE RICH

“POWDER
MY BACK”

FOX NEWS—PATHE REVUE

SS ,

and the Y turned in the most exciting|ten times the enrollment. BUT they Forwards: Sutherland, Morash, Ross, :

game of the league. The gallery was did! Without the services of Mr.] /ownsend, Doull, Miller. lt e S CRAGG BROS., CO. LID

packed and the various plays of the|Thomas, Tech produced a team that, Sliddicace Git Goer. Seta Commer ce
es respective teams were loudly applauded | on paper anyway, appeared the equals, —E.S.G. re IFAS ee

Society
Crested Stationery

=. eS ee

NEW
STYLE

ete

 

 

; one. aS. : : oe : ‘oti
ol ae wild during ae ee the es ition ae my with their sense of MODERN 499 Barrington Street of every Description F ARRELL’S
n° of the game. b rallied in the|eal_ sportsmanship. | ; | — one
i second half and although the Tech team} If they wanted to improve their play | PRI N j IN G Phone Sack. 61 also
Fy - fought bitterly until the last the game} by engaging Mr. Thomas as a coach, || Cards, Souvenirs of Halifax 391 Barrington St
a ended with the Y on top oe ig lone any 4 is pRB me La at M ;
"3 basket. It was a mighty hard game en they elected to play Mr. Thomas | ff ajestic Bldg. em i
"4 for Tech to lose. The result gave the they were thinking of the end rather] MODERATE HALIFAX N . se one So ari
4 championship to the Y. than the means. They were wrong.|{f CosT : eg er ee
i Ted Coaffee refereed. They shouldn’t have done it and they|f
aS Bh ahaa ee has deserve censorship for it. All of these
ts ei arguments are based on the firm belief | jf T C All « C ee ere
i ACADIA a IN CLOS oe ee pe ee ae plays|f] Le a Cil 0. Cut Flowers & Potted Plants C O
; Cn ae Sees ne Teh” ee ere i 124 & 126 Granville Street - make up pyucere! ge 15 \ ; E E L B R O ay H E R S
% A week ago Thursday the Dal Basket-|entered as a club. But who gets he === Sa Sa ee Se as a mimiced
ss ball team lost a hard fought game to| credit? whose colors do they carry? Gale menthers: of aie Te Ty: 453-457 Barrington Street

the Acadia quintette, in the Dal gym,

before a fair sized crowd of spectators

which included the University Club
of Boston players. The score at the

; end of the game was 35—30 in favour

os of the visiting team.

The showing of the Tigers was much
better than had been expected. The
Acadia team is rated as one of the best
and the Tigers weren't conceded much
of a chance to win. The game proved
to be much closer than predictions

_ warranted and the Tigers were unlucky

 

‘SSeu-'}

and who supports them from the gallery? ~

strong team, chose to play their coach

they should have thought to what]

lengths their action could be carried.

They went outside of their ranks be-|ff
cause they didn’t have enough players] ff
to choose from. Yet they had a strong ]}

team. Compare their action to a similar one by Dalhousie.
students. Dal
students playing Basketball as Tech

When Fech, not eatisticd with thei I

Dal has 800]ff
has about as* many]

 
   
   
     
       

As Usual

The best in Ice Creams, Confectionery and Meals, as well
as courtesy, efficent service and
attractive surroundings are to
be had at

Florists. We can wire Flowers

to all parts of the world.

Che Rosery

8 BLOWERS ST.
Phone Sac. 3321-3322
Night Phone Sac. 1934

Say it with Flowers, Say tt with ours

 

 

NOTICE!

Students’ Discount

 

 

 

MEN’S HATS, CLOTHING, FURNISHINGS
AND LUGGAGE

HIGH CLASS GOODS AT MODERATE: PRICES

 

Nova Scotia T echnical

 
 

College

to lose at all. In the first period the} have answering the attendance rolls. | ff Special Offer
Z forward line functioned splendidly and] BUT Dal hasn’t a team capable of|f at ae
: the rte: cee eee a aeatiee Tech, at least ena far. |i The Green Lantern CONDONS Seon Sens
ai excellent. Davidson on the front line at excuse has Dalhousie to offe ‘
a showed his best form of the season and | her student body? How can they ‘2 } = ——— 5 — Men’s Store oe Ect MACHA STCAL. AND MINING
: netted many points for the Tigers. Ross| talked into going to the games when an To Dalhousie Students with Engineering Diploma
| oe “eae also Bas er ape menue so much smaller, so much MODERN EQUIPMENT
as alf ended in favour of Dal. The fans| more handicapped, can produce as good Instructing Staff with Industrial Experi
2 were delighted with the playing of the] if not a better team? The Dal y 66 i hd Tuition F 7 Bee'e eek’
Bt Tigers and the Gym was the scene of] ment wanted the student Bode. O un. BUTTONS ON Take My Advice Pee ee eee me tape nn re Mee onsnn EES Uy a
3 ; Write or call for Calendar or advice.

‘some real yelling during the more excic? citing moments of play eee
3 } In the second half the Acadia five
x showed to better advantage. Murphy
n - appeared on the floor for the Tigers
but failed to show his real form and the
Dal attack wilted. Davidson continued to net points for the Tigers and
dat the visitors had to work hard for the
Me. scores. As the end of the game drew
ie near the Acadians continued to improve
| and they had enough edge on the Tigers
im in the final minutes of the game to win
_ 35—30. Acadia were lucky to win.

cae D. A. AUG.

a Elsewhere in this issue appears a
Be ae 4 nebies euing the annual meeting of the
|} © D, A. A. C. for Thursday March 8,
-— at_-12.00 noon in the Munro Room,
Bip os oF Onteat Building. This is done in
| ~~ accordance with the constitution of
{ . D. A. A.C. The business of the meet
ing will be the election of officers for
‘the coming year, the hearing of reports
of the different team managers etc.

and such other business as may be
transacted at the annual meeting of

Je th e he

play.

 

 

 

 

Pearse GAY

  

 

te ee e
AS tng t

 

 

    

  

 

port their team. It hasn’t been done.
Criticism had been levelled at the heads
of the Dal hoopsters because the College
could not produce a better team. The
management of the Dalhousie Basketball team has had every incentive to
go out and enter Dal as a club, to go out
and add men like Don Cox to their
line-up. In short to do what Tech did.
Every incentive in the world, but they
didn’t do it. Why? Because they were
sportsmen, because they knew that it
was Dalhousie that would reap the
benefit of a successful team and because
they were sportsmanlike enough to
put the best Dal could produce against
stronger teams rather than rob the
team of their right to be called Dalhousie
and, by additions, present a stronger
line-up. IF Dal had wanted to enter
as a club and had kept together last
year’s team plus this year’s additions
where would Tech or even the Y have
fitted this year?

Without Thomas the Tech institution
has a team that any College might be
i of. With Thomas they are a
ittle stronger, very little, and they
are not the Technical College Team.
Everything considered Tech have made
a mistake. It is to be hoped that they
will realize it.

RENTS MENDED
HOLES DARNED

That’s the service you get
free when you send YOUR
Laundry to Ungar’s.

VALETERIA

A new pressing Service:
Your Suit or Overcoat
Steam Cleaned and Pressed, for 75c or 4 Tickets
for $2.00.

NECKTIES cleaned 10c.

UNGAR’S

Halifax, N.S.
Har. 127

DYEING
VALETERIA

Barrington St.,
Sack 428

LAUNDERING
CLEANING

 

Get into the latest style
TUXEDO

“THE NONCHALANT”
ALL SILK LINED

$24.50
Robinson’s Clothes Ltd.

444 Barrington St.
s Opp. Roy Building
Walk Up Stairs and Save Ten”

YELLOW CAB

LIMITED
SAC. 4444

Halifax’s Only Metered
Service

Same Rates 24 Hours.
Two travel for same as one.
More than two, 20 cents extra,

 

 
 
 
  
   
   
  
  
   
  
  
 
      
    
     
      
   

Nova Scotia is
Forging Ahead—

_ A bridge for Halifax and {Dartmouth—two new hotels
being built in the Capital City.—The C. P. R. erecting a new
modern hotel in Digby—increased coal production—a harbour
trade doubled—agricultural developThe New Year’s Edition of the Halifax Herald told
the story of progress during 1927.

commission—tourist
ment.

progress during 1928 in

THE HALIFAX HERALD

AND

THE EVENING MAIL

Read the daily report of

  
    

yak

 
