    
 

 
 

— Ve .
ou.

ee ees
|| ciRCULATION
|| OF ANY COLLEGE
} PAPER IN THE

| MaRITIM

Mon

FOR NEW VICE-PRESIDENT

NATIONAL FEDERATION OF CANADIAN UNIVERSITY
~ STUDENTS HOLDS FIRST ANNUAL MEETING

 

By Ben R. Guss

A singular honor was bestowed upon Dalhousie at the first annual meeting of
the National Federation of Canadian University Students held in Toronto Dec.

27, 28, 29, 30, 1927, when Dalhousie’s representative, Gerald Godsoe was vice
_ president
nomination was

of this great student organization. It is interesting to note that Dal’s
tendered by the University of Manitoba and seconded by the

‘University of New Brunswick. This may be taken. as an indication of the esteem

 

  

of the fundamental purpose of the

= ada. :
~ This scheme for the exchange of under
c -ovi the attend- | :
in Canada should provide for the atten f| be taken up as will also the subject of

exceeding one percent

in which Dalhousie is held.

To grasp the significance of the importance of this representative student
body note the subjects under discussion:

1. Exchange of Undergraduates.

2. Debating. a

3. Student Insurance Policies.

4. Reduced Railroad Rates for
students. ,
' 5, Athletics and the reduction
in rates of athletic supplies.

* 6. All Canadian College Press
Association.

The exchange of undergraduates
was considered as the greatest and most
practical field for the accomplishment

Federation, that is the promotion of a
higher degree of co-operation and better
understanding between University students throughout Canada. This field
will make a great contribution to the

omotion of National Unity within

aduates provides that each University

ance at its colleges of a number o
students from other Universities, not
of the total
student body, and if possible free of all
tuition fees.

To date the entire seheme—has—be
approved by the Universities of British
Cohunbia, Alberta, Saskatchewan, Ontario Agricultural College and Acadia;
the Universities of Toronto, Western
Ontario and Queens have agreed to the
scheme with slight modifications.

It is gratifying to see that this scheme
has been ratified by the authorities of
the above-mentioned Universities and
it is to be hoped that Dalhousie will
view this novel yet nationalistic undertaking in its proper light. Every effort
is being made to bring the exchange into
effect by the commencement of the

fall term of 1928.
Debating.

Debating tours have been very enthusjastically upheld by all the Canadian
Colleges, in view of the benefits that
might accrue. Considerable space was
devoted, in the Gazette last week, to the
Maritime Debating Tour. Many other
tours are being contemplated. |

An invitation has been received from
the National Union of Students of
England and Wales to send a team or
two from Canada to debate in the
Universities of England, Scotland and
Wales. All expenses guaranteed. This
invitation has been accepted.

Debating in French has also been
carefully considered.

Insurance Policies and Railroad
Rates

In these two fields investigations have
been made and it is intimated that there
is a great possibility of reductions in
both fields.

Athletics

In this popular field of college activity Dalhousie was again given recognition: its representative acted as
chairman of the Athletic Committee,
consisting of representatives from the
Universities of Alberta, Montreal, Western Ontario and Acadia.

It was agreed that the formation of a
truly Canadian inter-collegiate Amateur
Athletic Union would be in the best interests of amateur athletics throughout
Canada. Such a Canadian Inter-Collegiate Athletic Union would promote
closer contact between the various
sections of Canada, enable the determination of true Canadian champions,
promote a uniformity of elligibility
rules and in general serve to systematize inter-collegiate athletics.

Another accomplishment was the
reduction of 33 1-3% off all equipment
for athletic organizations in the Federation.

The work of the Athletic Committee
‘was conceded to be of more than passing

importance.

Canadian College Press
- Association

_At present it is not opportune for the

EE

An All

*

   
  
 
 
   
  
  
 
   
 
   
   
   

 
  
 


hidenis Council

Meeting Monday

A NUMBER OF IMPORTANT
BUSINESS MATTERS TO
BE TAKEN UP.

The Council of Students will meet on
Tuesday evening, January 24, to consider several matters of importance.
Besides routine business a number of
reports will be submitted. J. G. Godsoe will report on the N. F. C. U. S.
convention, which he attended as _representative of Dalhousie. A report
of the Vancouver football tour will be
submitted by the manager, Gordon
Winfield.

Several important matters will also
be brought up by the rink committee.
Discussion on the matter of raising the
student activities fees from $7 to $10 will

Kings’ contribution to the expenses of

student activity.

The meeting is scheduled for 7.30 p.m.
and is open to the general student body.
ea a ela ld

SODALES TO STAGE
TRIAL. DEBATES

SEVEN CANDIDATES FOR
HONORS TO HOLD FORTH
MONDAY
Who will represent Dal against
Acadia. Against McGill? Monday

night at Sodales at least seven contenders will vie with each other for
oratorical honors. The subjects for
each team have been mooted in all
circles and the competition is very
keen.

Among those who will speak are:

Roderick MacLeod president of
Sodales and veteran university debater

Andrew O. Hebb last year’s editor
a the Gazette and well known in Sodales;

Albert Walsh winner of the Smith
Shield competition;

Don Grant who has been heard to
good effect at Sodales;

4 Roy Lawrence favorite Sodales speaer;

Morris MacKinnon a graduate and
debater of Bishop's College.

Ben Guss a member of last year’s
inter-collegiate team

A number of other contestants are
expected to participate.

The judges are Dean J. E. Read,
Dr. G. E. Wilson and Prof. A. L. MacDonald.

Groups from Shirreff Hall, Pine Hill
and Commerce House have planned to
be present en bloc. In other years the
trials have drawn very large audiences
and this year in view of the keen competition large numbers are expected to
turn out.

N. F. C. U. S. to form such an organization. However it is recommended
that all college papers devote as much
of their space as possible to publish
items of interest concerning universities
in other sections of Canada.

Other Items

Among other problems discussed were
scholarships, League of Nations, and
student problems in general.

It is thus clear that every phase,
angle and aspect of student activity
has come under the comprehensive
review of the N. F. C. U. S. The
effect is obvious. It will make for
uniformity in Intercollegiate Activity.
It will unite Canadian Students in a
common enterprize. It will foster a
healthy nationalism.

Next Sept.in Central Canada there
will be a convention of the United
Students of the entire British Empire.
Our students will thus be trained to
have a broad outlook. The field for
advancing education is unlimited. The
N. F. C. U. S. will afford the most
desirable methods for student outlook.

Dal N

MN

HALIFAX, NOVA S

 

L STUDENT WINS ALL-CANADA RH

GODSOE CHOICE OF N.E.CUS.

et +
7... :

~ > i=

He cee ay J
4 we '

, = iv "4 ~
? + 8 .

& =

 

 

   
 
 
    
   
     
     
  

COTIA, JANUARY 20th, 1928

 

J. Hugh MacLennan (right) and J. Gerald Godsoe (left) both of whom have brought
' to themselves and to Dalhousie recently.

—

 

SPEAKER SUGGESTS FLYING
COURSE FOR UNIVERSITY

 

2,

CAPT. GIBBONS GIVES INTERESTING TALK

BARGAINS IN BOOKS

At other Universities you
would pay as.much as ten
dollars for a year book.
At Dalhousie the price is
two dollars, that each student may have one. We
are helping you. We rely
on you to help us.

Sign up cheerfully.

It's worth more.

 

The Year Book Committee aims to
publish a book that will do justice to
the college and the student body. It is
only by the active cooperation of the
student body as a whole that this aim
can be realized.

 

Lawyers Throw

Real ‘Party

Defying, Friday the 13th., stormy
weather, and for the first time in years,
holding their annual dance in the gymnasium the lawyers put it across hig,
to the delight of several hundred dancers. é'

Thousands of red and white streamers
artistically arranged gave the Gym an
appearance of depth and_ breadth
worthy of a regal ball-room. A most
pleasing feature of the decorative scheme was that the homely iron girders
were so masked that an outsider would
never have sispected their presence;
something that has often been overlooked before.

Mae Henrion and her five piece
orchestra were at their best; they played
the latest hits and put plenty of pep
into them.

The refreshments served after the
10th dance were much enjoyed and
flattering comments were heard on the
punch.

The large crowd was chaperoned by:

Dean and Mrs. Read

Prof. Horace Reed

Mr. Charles F. MacKenzie and his
able committee are to be congratulated
on their efficient handling and organization of a splendid ‘dance.

  

72

  

ee

at the

A course in aviation was outlined to a
large male audience in the Chemistry
Theatre last Friday afternoon by Capt.
Otho A. Gibbons. Sketching in a fascinating twenty minute address the
history and future of aeronautics, Capt.
Gibbons showed the possibilities of
aviation as a profession and announced
the probability of an aviation course
in the near future. The inauguration
of this course, he said, depends upon the
University.

The course, said Capt. Gibons, supplanted by fifty hours air experience
will entitle a student to a Pilot’s Certificate, which will enable the holder to
obtain a pilot’s job in any part of the
world at a salary of from two to ten
thousand dollars.

The course would undertake a study
of astronomy, map-reading, instruments,
and motors. The study of the motor
would not be a mechanical one like
that given at the Technical College, but
rather a study that would enable one to
understand the principles involved in
its functioning. He could make no
statement of the length of the course,
because he did not know how much time
the students could put into it. Nor
could he state the tuition fees until
the other arrangements were made.
The actual flying would be done either
in conjunction with the government, the
Halifax Flying Club, or some company.
He anticipated no difficulty in making
such an arragement.

The course is dependent upon two
factors, he told his audience, whether the
University sanctions the course and
whether the students desire the course.
It would take from twenty to thirty
students. He then asked how many
were interested in the establishment of
this course. The number of students
that respond would overcome one of the
doubtful factors.

Capt. Gibbons, who is a citizen of
Halifax, intimated that he himself would
give the lectures. Capt. Gibbons has a
fine record. He went overseas and
entered the Air force at the beginning of
the war. At the end of the war he went
into commercial flying. His route for
a time was from England to the Continent. Then for a number of years
he taught classes similar to those he
proposes for Dalhousie. Lately he
became President of the California
Safe-T-Flying Club. He is now a man
of fifteen years flying experience with a
record of 815 hours flying. He is an
interesting speaker.

At the close of the lecture he spent
more than half an hour answering the
enthusiastic questions of his audience.

Sa

HODES

i|HUGH MACLENNAN CHOSEN

    

  

THE OLDEST

COLLEGE PAPER
IN AMERICA

11 EULA

   

———S ee ee Se

CHOLARSHIP|

FROM DOMINION WIDE LIST

COMMITTEE ELECT POPULAR DALHOUSIE STUDENT
TO BE NEXT,TERM’S CANADIAN RHODES SCHOLAR

To be selected as Rhodes Scholar from candidates submitted
by every province in Canada, with the exception of Prince Edward
Island, is the singular honor which Hugh Maclennan, Arts ’28, has
won for himself and for Dalhousie. Mr. Maclennan’s record has been
trulv excellent and there can be no doubt that the selection committee
have made a satisfactory choice.

 

* At rare intervals, some vacancy makes
it necessary to choose a Rhodes Scholar

 

Unsuspected Talent
at Dalhousie

The first meeting of Delta Gamma
of 1928 was held at Shirreff Hall on
Monday Jan. 16. Because the date
of the Med. and Junior-Senior dances
had not been set it was impossible to
decide on a definite date for the Delta
Gamma. A motion was introduced and
passed that the money given for the
Year Book should be collected as last
year. Miss Mills, who with Miss
Trotter, was present at the meeting,
spoke for a few minutes of the many
colleges she had visited from U. of B. C.
to Dalhousie, and how each possessed an
attraction quite its own and quite different to the attraction of any other. The
greatest point of interest to Miss Mill
was the effect which the ever increasing
number of university students must
have on community life. The freshettes
then made their second appearance, as
the entertainers of Delta Gamma, in a
most realistic representation of ‘‘Lord
Ullan’s Daughter’. Glee Club might
borrow the effective oars and the most
artistic sign. As a relief to spirits sinking under the weighty tragedy they gave
the first presentation of a yet unnamed
play dealing with an elocution class.
This was fcllowed by ‘“Twinkle, Twinkle
Little Star’ as given by the various
members of the Brown family—Mrs.
Brown, Bob Brown and Mary Brown.
But the forte of the freshettes as shown
by their final selection is quite evidently
tragedy. The shooting of Dan McGrew
was played amid, or perhaps in-spite of
shrieks of the audience and lights which
persisted in coming on at inopportune
moments before the victims were quite

dead. After the entertainment the
freshettes provided the refreshments
and also the music for dancing.

In their second as in their first appearance at Delta Gamma the freshettes
have shown that they are real sports.

Forced to ‘Retire
From His Studies

Walter Ross ’28 has been unable to
return to Dal since Christmas. Dalhousians and especially the members
of Class ’28 are sorry to hear of his illness
and to know that he will not be able to
be with his class for the remainder of
his graduation year. The news
of him which Professor Wilson brought
upon his return from Kentville makes us
hope that he will soon be back with us
in better health than ever to continue
the brilliant record he has always had.

 

The Forum has been engaged for you
tonight. Come and see a hockey game
and have an evening's skate besides.

BIOLOGY CLUB
HEAR SCHIERBECK

POPULAR SOCIETY IS
FLOURISHING

The Biology Club held its first meeting of the year last Thursday, Jan.
12th in the Dental Theatre of the Forrest Building.

Charlie Allen was in the chair and
Mr. Otto Shierbeck, chief Provincial
Forester gave an instructive and interesting talk on the problems of forestry
in Nova Scotia. He outlined the many
fields of research which lie open to
those interested in this branch of Biology, and the extreme need for such research workers. The positions, although so poorly paid that a wife is a
luxury which cannot be afforded, are,
nevertheless, so full of interest and
satisfaction that one’s salary becomes
only a minor consideration.

The Club holds its next meeting on
Thursday, Jan. 26th. Professor Gibbs
will speak on the Social Use of Drugs.
It is understood that cocktails, coffee
drinking, and the use of tea as a beverage
will be included in the this discussion.

 

  
 

 

 

 

l

from a Dominion wide range. In this
case, Ontario and Quebec, submitted
two candidates and the other provinces,
with the exception of P. E. I. one each.

[t is doubtful if a more satisfactory
selection than Mr. Maclennan has ever
been made for this scholarship. His
academic record is excellent. A graduate of the Halifax County Academy,
he won the Yeoman prize in Latin and
Greek and was selected as Head Boy by
his classmates. At Dalhousie he has
won a Campbell scholarship while his
work all through his course has been of
a high order of excellence.

Mr. Maclennan is president of his
class, has served on the Student’s
Council, and is well-known around the
University. He has played on the
intermediate and senior basketball teams
and has made a name for himself in
tennis, being one of the winning pair
in the men’s doubles championship,
first of Halifax County and later of
Nova Scotia.

Mr. Maclennan will go into residence
at Oxford next fall; a brilliant career is
predicted for him.

A Leaf From
My Journal

By George Whitily

 

Schooner Marie, Gulf of St. Lawrence.

Sept. 1, 1880. 9 a.m. I was awakened in
the night by a commotion on deck.
Through the open hatchway I could see
the tall form of Captain Joncas at the
wheel. The glare of the binnacle light
fell full on his weather beaten face.
He was anxiously watching the flapping
sails and giving hurried orders in French.’
A moment afterwards I felt the schooner
lurch; then I heard the rattling of tackle
overhead, and a peaceful gurgle as we
moved through the water. A breeze at
last. How grateful I was, none can
understand but those who have been
becalmed for two days in a northern
fog. Over the Captain’s head I could
catch a glimpse of the Little Dipper and
a few faint streamers of the northern
lights. We were heading southwards at
least.

When I came on deck in the morning
the sand hills of Natasquan and the
limestone cliffs of Mingan had disappeared, and we were running along the
wild rugged coast of Anticosti. A heavy
surf was breaking at the base of cliffs
from five hundred to a thousand feet
high. The interior of the island is
heavily wooded with pine and her :
Near West Point which we were rapidly
approaching, the land slopes more
gradually to the sea, and forms a little
harbor, where lay several vessels—an
English brigantine, and three or four
little fishing schooners with ten colored
sails.

As we neared the point, the wind
freshened, and soon was blowing. half
a gale. By breakfast time we had
rounded the point, and were heading
straight for Trinity Bay. The South
shore mountains are just visible hanging
like a cloud-bank over the horizon.
‘“‘The winds are out with the wares at
play”’, and large sea gulls and cormorants are hovering in the air, and
taking advantage of the commotion.
~ At last we are making rapid progress,
and if the wind does not slacken a day
at most will bring us to Point de Monts.
Frank is growing weaker ever hour. The
terrible disease, whatever it be, is fast
wearing him out. To think of Frank
Daniels, heir to half Thetford, dying by
inches in this miserable little trading
schooner.

11 a.m. The wind soon failed us and
the fog closed in. Werise and sink with
sickening regularity on the heavy swell.
Frank breathes with difficulty. We
have taken out the upper berth so that
he can have more room. He says little
and is very patient. ta %

7.30 p.m. It is all over. I had been

(Continued on page 3)

    
  

a
ny

17
fe Vv
1
,

'

;

*
r

*
i

ae
tis 4y The news that J. Hugh Maclennan has been

Way ehe: news ; é elected to the
_  All-Canadian Rhodes Scholarship has
with great pleasure, but no surprise.

z

“Students” Paper”’ in future.

    

    
   
 
 

Seen ae
= ‘ _— = = -*F

¢ Dalhousie Gazette

He: (Founded 1869)
5 FRED C. JENNINGS
arte i i0- - Sports Editor
ALLEN inn. J. W. WHALEN
; Exchange Editor.
KATHERINE HANIFEN
Associate Editors.

| BEN GUSS
W. GORDON DUSTAN
_ MARGARET ELLS

J Circulation Manager
; S. W. ARCHIBALD
Business Manager.
RALPH S. MORTON
52 Quinpool Rd.
Phone Sac. 304
Subscription Rate : $1.00 per year

?

 

| “Che Majority of the Students”

- The following gem of advice, written on a fragment torn from

__asmall book, has been received by The Gazette:

r

~ “What Price Gore” was bunk as was also “Critique’s
_ Critique’. Leave such irrelative matter out of the
(Signed) The Majority of the Students.

The above letter could not be placed under the head of “Letters
to the Editor,’ as no names were signed to it., but it deserves a

moments notice as it purports to come from ‘‘the majority of the
_ students’.

Just when did the students of Dalhousie get together, pass an
- Opinion and draw up a memorial such as the above?

op i If they did, it
is part of the secret history of the week. If they did not then one
person has taken it upon himself or herself to answer for the student

body, without giving that body a chance to express its own opinion.

Is he or she justified in such an action?

Considering the contents of this short attempt at censure, one
reads that “What Price Gore?” and ‘‘Critique’s Critic’’, (the corrections are my own), are irrelative. The writer of ‘What Price Gore?”
based his letter on a subscription list passed among the students

- some time ago and set forth his ideas on the worthiness or otherwise

of the object of the subscription. Many think his ideas were wrong
but they were tdeas. ‘‘Critique’s Critic’? was written as a criticism
of a previous discussion of a phase of college life—cheering at a
football game and, as such, was anything but zrrelatice.

_ The writers of the two above letters signed their names to their
letters and therefore according to the policy of “The Gazette’’merited
space in the paper for the propagation of their ideas. The individual

It is to be regretted that we have to disappoint ‘‘the majority

_of the students” in the future as it is incumbent upon us to print
all letters that express lucid ideas and meet the requirements.

_ The Professor and the Student

There are many strata in college life brought about by differences of inheritance, position and personality; but they may be
grouped into two levels: the Faculty and the Student Body.

_ These two levels are more or less separate but at certain points
they intermingle, giving of their content to each other. Some
would say that the only place for intermingling is in the lecture
room and that in outside activities the professor should hold himself aloof from those he is teaching. There is an old saying, ‘‘Familiarity breeds contempt,’’ which seems to uphold this view. An
individual wishing to set forth an argument of any kind must have
authority. That authority is built on prestige, either his own or
that of an individual quoted in the argument. Personal prestige
goes far towards lending authority and it is this prestige which many
think would be seriously curtailed if there were an intermingling
of the two main strata, except in the limited area of the class room.

There may be some grounds for this belief, but there is no reason
to believe that a wise mingling of activities and interests on the part
of professors and students would have a deleterious effect on the
fuse of the former, rather, if wisely carried out it should enhance
it.

In the lecture room the student does not see the professor in the
true full light. He isa being apart. Nor does the professor see the
many surfaces and angles of the students he is lecturing to. Mingling of the two strata would tend to bring forth community of
interests and lead to a greater understanding between the two bodies.

At Dalhousie a number of the professors take an active interest

_ in the extra-curricular activities. The different literary and science

_adviceofafew. The Gazette has received

' would so completely fulfill the conditions

Cid

Pi
2
4

é >

Feed,

societies have the benefit of the material aid of some of the faculty.
The Glee Club and Sodales have benefitted by the interest and
ola a share of aid, contributions
and criticism from a number of the professors.

» * The knowledge that members of the faculty are deeply interested
in college activities adds greatly to the strength and power of the
activities and to the confidence of those in charge. The Gazette
takes this opportunity to thank the members of the faculty who have
shown their interest in many ways and to express the hope that this

interest will continue.

Congratulations!

been received by his friends
Few could be picked who
of eligibility for the honor.
\ : a man respected by his
iends and acquaintances, he is a worthy representive of the Dom
. keen student, a true sportsman and

: a Ea y In receiving this honor Hugh has brought further honor to
_ _Dathousie. The scholarship was open to all Canada and the fact

 

tudent at Dalhousie has won the conyeted distinction speaks
the scholastic prestige of our university.

‘Gazette extends to Mr. Maclennan hearty congratulations
t wishes for his success.

;
i

rs
me Ase 5,

Ls

  
 

 

"Riya, ee ewe nit See Me) ee ane. aie pee 2

Rat Cae gary ty iiih GF Uae iG, ce be Ett. Cate ye j :

Mee meee ak, * p |

iste dole ; tebe. 4
Wis! oe se ; |
é ey
§ 4 =
| § DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

Letters To The Editor

 

“Ghe Football Tour

The Editor,
Dalhousie Gazette,
Halifax, N.S.

 

Dear Sir:—It is hardly necessary to
write the story of our trip to the Coast.
The Student Body has already learned
of our games there through the local
press. While the trip was perhaps not
entirely successful from the point of
view of football, it has been of immense
value to Dalhousie. We know now that
a team from here can hold their own
anywhere in Canada. We have no
excuses for our games. Anyone who
saw them knows such a thing is unnecessary. The boys did their best
under very unfavorable conditions. They
played the game from start to finish,
and while they did not return winners,
they earned a very enviable reputation
as a team of sportsmen who play the
game for the game’s sake. We are
sure of a royal welcome in Vancouver
at any time.

I am indeed sorry that more of our
students and some of our Faculty could
not have made the trip. It was a
wonderful lesson to all of us. We hear
a lot about College Spirit at Dalhousie.
The same talk exists throughout Canada. But we have a spirit of which we
may well be proud, that of our Alumni.
At every station of importance from
Coast to Coast we were met by men
who had been at Dalhousie, some of
them before we were born. No matter

| how late the hour, or how bad the

weather, we always received a welcome
from old Dalhousians, some of whom
had driven for miles to see the boys
from the old college.
On our return trip we made several
stops, and visited many of the Western
Universities. Dalhousie is one of the
smallest Universities outside the Maritimes, yet she is known in every Province in the Dominion. In every Canadian city you will find Dalhousians
among the leading men, doctors, lawyers, judges, men in every walk of life,
all anxious to hear the news from old
Dalhousie. Many were the _ stories
we heard of life at Dalhousie in the old
days. Never before had I realized how
much Dalhousie has done. It has been
a lesson | shall never forget, and one I
wish more could have learned.

If this trip has done nothing else,
it has brought together the big family
of Dalhousie, men and women from
Coast to Coast. It has given them a
glimpse of their old College by the sea,
and bound them still closer to their
Alma Mater, of which they are so proud.
To us it has given a new conception of
Dalhousie. The ‘‘old days’’ have passed
‘but the old College still remains, of

pact Wa i : }
| signing himself or herself “The Majority of the Students” has merit-| which we may well be proud.
_ ed space due to the utter novelty of the letter itself.

Too much cannot be said for the
Vancouver Rugby Union and our alumni
at Vancouver. Every minute of our
stay there was filled for us. Banquets,
dances, theatre parties were held in our
honor, and everything possible done to
make our visit enjoyable.

I wish to take this opportunity of
thanking those whose contributions
made this trip possible, our Alumni, the
Student Body, and our many friends.
Especially to ] wish to thank Mr. Ronald Fielding, without whose labours the
trip would never have been possible,
Dr. John Rankine, our Coach, who did
everything to make a team, and finally
the Captain and boys of the team, who
played th.. game, not only on the field,
but everywhere, and whose only regret
is that they did not return to Dalhousie
undefeated.

Thanking you for space in your paper,

Sister--Pal

Sister-pal, who takes an interest

In the things that interest me;
Sister-pal, who's always ready
Rain or shine my chum to be.
She's the one who gladly listens
To my tale of joy or woe,

Always has a word of comfort
When the way is hard to go;

Or when blessings form the burden,
She is there to bear a part.

Sharing joys as well as sorrows
Links us closer, heart to heart.
Sister-Pal, who tells her secrets
Softly in my listening ear, |

And her trials and temptations,
And each little joy and fear.

Thus a mutual understanding
Strong and true between us grows,
Which the storm of life wont shatter
Matters not from where it blows.

 

— Not I dle | Prattle

January 15, 1928.
Editor of the Gazette.

Dear Sir: In the issue of the Gazette
dated Nov. 18th there appeared a letter
to the Editor signed “‘L. E. C.”’ under the
caption ‘What Price Gore?” which
purported to offer very good reasons
why the students of Dalhousie should
not sign a paper being then circulated
authorizing a donation to the War
Memorial Fund, the amount to be
deducted from their caution deposits.
Whether these reasons were very good,
whether they were sound, sensible and
valid reasons, has become the subject
of much controversy among many
students and other readers of the
Gazette.

The views of “L. E. C.” have been
as Mr. Coffey himself says ‘‘severely
censured” by one signing himself a
Senior, which rather leaves one with the
nasty impression that, being a SENIOR,
his seniority gives him adequate right
to pass judgment on a matter of such
Import, tho’ perhaps that suspicion
is ill-founded.

In the last issue of the Gazette, Mr.
J. S. Roper refers to the “effusion” of
Mr. Coffey as being the “‘idle prattle of
a thoughtless man,” and seeing that
Mr. Roper writes “as one who was
Editor-in-Chief of the Dalhousie Gazette for two terms, who served in
France and knows the spirit of Dalhousie,”’ one has again that nasty impression that his judgment is final and
infallible.

I write, Mr. Editor, as one who read
with pleasure Mr. Coffey’s article regarding War Memorials, as one who thoroughly enjoyed his apology in the last
issue of the Gazette; he well knows that
discretion is the better part of valor.
Mr. Coffey is valorous.

In his letter Mr. Coffey shows writing
skill; he expresses views and gives reasons for them; it is clear that his mind is
far from being blank. It would appear
that Mr. Roper’s contumely were
quite unjustifiable. Surely, Mr. Coffey
is not the “‘thoughtless man"’ nor is
his the “idle prattle,’’ if idle prattle
there be.

I do not propose to champion Mr.
Coffey, but | do deplore the fact that
a Senior and Mr. Roper in their criticisms have neither met his argument
nor given any very good reasons for
their own views. Mr. Coffey has been
abused. He has been called a ‘‘thoughtless man" and his views dubbed “idle
prattle,’"—once would have expected
a broad-minded criticism from a Dal
kousie graduate once. Editor-in-Chief]

of the Dalhousie Gazette.

Respectfully yours,
JOHN C. THURROTT.

——_--- >
JOYCE KILMER

 

‘And after the golden day has come,
and the war is at an end

A slab of bronze on the chapel wall will
tell of the noble dead,

And every name on that radiant list
will be the name of a friend

A name that shall, through the centuries
in grateful prayers be said.’

ee 
lam,
Yours very truly,

Bill Winfield.
Manager.

Advice to a Sceptic

Completely disillusioned, you are bored
By life’s thin triumphs—those you used

 

to prize; i ;
You think that effort wins no just reward baa
And therefore only idleness is wise.
Pleasure is false....and pain.... But

this is true:
Behind your life there is a kindly cheat
Who tried to keep his empty truth from

ny Ow é
By veiling it in beautiful deceit.

Comply with Him. Sow labour’s heavy

seeds

-| On barren ground; and though dull truth

may call

Your harvest but a maze of worthless
weeds,

Defy dull truth and revel in it all!

 

 

~ Another

An hour of powerful significance has!
been brought to Dalhousie University
by J. Gerald Godsoe, president of the
Council of Students, through his election to the office of vice-president of the
National Federation of Canadian University Students. The election took
place at the first annual convention of
the organization which was held at the
University of Toronto, December 27 to
30, 1927. The federation, which is
comparatively in its infancy has been
accepted with open arms by a majority
of the student bories of Canadian Uniyersities and is now representative of
eighteen universities throughout the
Dominion. .

The Federation aims to be a clearing
house for the problems that beset the
different student groups of Canada and
an ambitious program dealing with
these problems has been drawn up by
the convention. The organization will,
ho doubt, become a powerful factor in
university circles and will do much to
coalesce the ideas, endeavors and activities of student life in Canada.

A number of schemes, such as inter |

 

—Don Murray
Honor

Pines debating, has been success
ully worked out and many other problems are being dealt with by this central
body. The heads of a number of the
leading Canadian universities have signified their approval of the movement and
have contributed their support.

An Imperial Conference is planned
for next year. At this convention which
will be held in central Canada, _ representatives ofthe leading universities
of the British Empire will meet to discuss
the problems of university life. The
affect of this conference will be deep and
far reaching. It will bring together
representatives from widely scattered
regions of the earth—England, Scotland,
South Africa, Australia and other British possessions. It can be easily seen
that such a gathering will be fruitful
of much thought and many fertile
ideas.

Mr. Godsoe is to be heartily congratulated on the recognition bestowed
on him and upon the signal honor he has
brought to his Alma Mater. The
Gazette wishes him success in his activities.

 

 

An Auditor’s Epistle

(Being the atlempt.o, a Commerce Student
to follow his text-book literally.)

 

 

‘It is most important that an auditor
express his findings and opinions in
simple English. His aim must be to
write so clearly that his report cannot
possibly be misunderstood. He _ will
not err if he follows the simple language
of the: Bible. .w.... “ete:

(Montgomery's ‘‘Auditing”’
208-209).

p. p.

1. Robert whose surname is Slayter
a member in communion with the Students of Commerce which are now at
Dalhousie to the Wise Men of the Tabernacle of Commerce.

2. Grace and greetings unto you and
peace. :

3. I am bound to thank you inasmuch as ye have considered me worthy
of your confidence.

4. For behold the post one morning
was a heavy one! yea, a goodly mail was
brought unto me.

5. And, verily, so large a letter was
written by him, your scribe, wherein ye
bade me enter into your synagogue to
make investigation.

6. Whereat I girded up my loins,
and got me to the place known as onehalf score and four, on the street which
is called Oxford.

7. And lest any should say to me, by
what right comest thou hither, behold!
I carried the epistle which I received
from you, and held it out for all men to
see.

8. And having spoken unto them who
had charge of the books of account, and
told of my mission, lo! they brought
unto me the books of account.

9. Even the ledgers, and the cash
books, and the journals, and all the
books wherein your business is recorded.

10. And I began to check them with
my checks: even a check to every item;
a green check, checking the items one
against another.

11. And, behold! as I checked, item
against item, I found that some items
could not be checked, for, lo! there was
no item against which to check them.
And I marvelled greatly.

12. For so it was, that when I searched but could not find the items to
check, I said unto myself, surely there
is wickedness here:

13. Surely someone with evil intent
hath taken advantage of his trust for
his own gain.

14. Then I said to those who were in
authority, surely someone with evil
intent hath taken advantage of his trust
for his own gain.

15. Bring unto me, I pray thee, the
man who is charged with the treasury.
And they brought him, and he stood
before me, face to face.

16. And I spake unto him and said,
What hast thou done? Wherefore do |
find thus and thus?

‘17. And -he locked, and,
my visage was stern and my countenance commanding.

18. Then he cried with a loud and
exceeding bitter cry, and said, ho! I
am undone. Surely my sin hath been
discovered, and what shall I do?

19. And he confessed his sin, and
said, For I was led into evil ways, even
the ways of evildoers, who play the game
even the game of crown and anchor,
hitting the can, the can of strong wine.

20. And my spirits were high, and
I said, surely my fortune will be great.
But the stakes were high, and those who
played were skillful, even beyond my

skill.

21. And it came to pass that on a
certain day I staked the treasures of
gold entrusted to me.

22. Believing in my heart that fortune would be mine. But fortune

favored me not, and so the treasures
were taken from me.

And when he finished speaking,
he rent his clothes and mourned.

24, And now | offer this, my report,
for whosever committeth transgresseth the law; and ye have the matter
in your own hands.

25. As for the lists and the values of
the treasures which ye have lost by the
dishonesty of your servant, are they not
written in the schedule which I gave
unto you with this my report.

26. And I salute you with
salutations. Amen.

23.

sin

many

a

Are you going to the Forum tonight?

_ Make this a real Dal night at the
Forum.

beheldlt

January 20th, 1928

THE LIFE OF A
LITTLE COLLEGE

There will be a Student's Service next
Sunday night at Fort Massey Church.
This is to be followed by a Sing Song at
the Fort Massey Hall.

    
   
  

has been remarking that the Seniors
have been very nice to them all last
week. But of course no one would
think of critiques. | Le

Shirreff Hall is regretting the news
that Margaret Smith will not be back
again. Always full of fun and a good
sport everybody wishes Marg. a speedy
recovery.

* * *

Class '28 feel pretty proud of themselves. At least they know how to
choose a president.

Theatre night is always good fun.
Last year's was not the success it might
have been but the S. C. A. are planning
one bigger and better than ever for this
year. At least the girls seem to think
it’s inthe air. Watch and see what is
going to happen. | a

All's fair in love and war

Or so the sages say.

But win or lose in either case
You pay and pay and pay.

* * *

We note that J. J. L. Atwood has
again leapt into prominence through
courageous firefighting in the Forrest
Building. Just once more, Mr. Atwood,
and we'll suspect you of setting these
fires for publicity. You know you
wouldn't like ‘‘Mary Ellen’’ for a nickname, you old smoke-eater, you!

a z * * *
Get your ticket for the Dal skate at
the Forum.

Prof. Sydney Pierce, who last year
held lectures in political science at Dal
has now joined the ranks of the wedded.
Those who remember Prof. Pierce
extend to him heartiest congratulations.
It may be stated that Prof. Pierce
proved himself a very capable director,
having trained the players in the Convocation Play, ‘“The First Year."

_ Dr. Daniel Wood, '27,
in Souris, P. E. I.

is practising

A Year Book for every student!

dosreneiaacsinegeemeieaseesstlt casi ectnasicingesesiiancemas

Nancy Ann

Miss Nancy Anne sat still to look
Across the hills. Her story book .

Had dropped unheeded by her side ~
And she in fancy, was the bride

Of some tall prince, whose handsome face
She could not see, for silky lace

And heavy plumes were hiding it.

It must be handsome though to fit

So fine a prince. And she was dressed
In richest silks, the very best

Of lace from Venice, old and fine,

And gems from shiek's or raja's mine.
Perfume, distilled from roses fair

Was ling’ring in her glossy hair.

But who the prince was no one knew.
His name, and if his blood were blue,

If he were Swiss or old Chinee

All this was robed in mystery.

The wedding chimes began to ring

The happy guests prepared to sing.

Miss Nancy Anne sat up and sighed

She wasn’t, after all, a bride

And gathered up her books for class

Since Nancy was a college lass.

All day she thought how queer to know

That if she e’er should wed, ‘twas so

That, here on earth, her prince, somewhere

Was quite alive, with things to wear,

And eat, could talk and laugh and such

Oh dear! but maybe he was Dutch!

The crazy thought whirled through her
head.

She wondered what the ‘profs’ had said.

If they had ever foolish thoughts,

Or if their brains were tidy lots

Of common sense. Perhaps the girls,

Beside her, dreamed of ships and pearls.

Since Nancy Anne was not in love,

Why, under yon bright sun above,

When she but thought her prince might
die,

Did tears dim Nancy’s gentle eye?

—R. E. G.

 

|SWEATERS

 

| A new shipment of jumbo knit sweaters in
| Dalhousie Colors just arrived. Get yours now. °

454 BARRINGTON ST., «

CYL Afeggeee
GUWUTZOZ

 

|

| 7

| LETT Tas
|

}

|

|SKATES and BOOTS—

Our new fall stocks of Hockey Boots and Skates
are now opened up for your inspection.

tf
FS

Pf

VS LY
i

- HALIFAX, N. §S

 
. bss]
'.
Z|

a
H

as
rt a ee
Ts

ea “ph

eG ee es a
f F
— = —T +

. ee es

—_

| he 1 a rr di 2S a
| very pase of Beauty

‘ge
equipment is modern

fat a
a

- ; to the smallest detail.

| Your patronage is solicited,
; we warrant complete sation

a
z m
4

a) _ isfacti n from amanicurr ‘9

 

t wave.

Phone S. 3830 for appointment.

_ || THE WOOD BROS CO., |

_ Limited

 

Argyle St.

‘|| Printers, Publishers. Bookbinders

| COLLEGE COLOR

|| We have a good supply of any

ff We Specialize in Society Printff ing of all kinds, such as ©

INVITATIONS |

| ANNOUNCEMENTS
| DANCE PROGRAMS

ETG. ETC.
Always first in quality
Very moderate prices

Publishers of

a _ Camerons “Regional Anatomy”
¢ merons ‘“Osteology and Arthrology”’

S

SE

Phone Sack. 195 |

| The Ross Print Ltd |

ee ee een ere

>

een

i :
a . a = de

DALHOUSIE'G

| THE GENESIS OF HOCKEY

| It was the depth of winter—about] breeze. As they neared the pond, the
one month deep. The snow lay every-} wizard, Hawkeye Hedric, most powerful} alone with him for over an hour, and
where, even on the ground, and the]of all magicians in Irak could be dis-| thought him fast asleep. I had got out
f| skylarks larked in the sky while the} cerned in the van, a small trumpet in| the chart, and was calculating as well
periwinkles winked in the frosty air.|one hand, and what looked like two] as I could, our position, only two hunBaron Bungle, mighty lord of the vast}short wands in the other. The re-| dred miles to Point de Monts; where we
estate of Bunglevale, sat in the banquet | mainder of the company was made up of | hope to find a physician, or medicine
hall of his ancestorial mansion'of blue-| twelve knights with their squires and|at least. I was beginning to feel hopestone, situated in the highlands of Irak,| pages, among whom Sir Lysols could | ful again, when I was startled by a deep
and idly twiddled his Chucsbe. ‘To be| easily be distinguished by his long red| groan from Frank. A glance at his
truthful, he twiddled one of his thumbs] plume and large feet. The squires and | face sufficed to tell me that the end was
# | for the other had been lost in mortal] pages were heavily laden with strange|come. I called the others and tried to
combat some years before when his|accoutrements. A band of minstrels| make him swallow a little brandy. He
advisary had bitten it off in the lists. brought up the rear. (I know not} murmured a few words, of which all I
The baron was sunk in a fit of ennui} what they brought it up for as it wasn’t} could catch were ‘‘Mother—West gate”
‘|on account of enforced inaction. For | used. ; I think he fancied he was at home again,
|the past two months there had been} The band of knights marched on the}and driving up that pleasant English
‘nothing to divert his attention. He had|ice to the strains of martial music and, | road from Great Yarmouth, saw through
| tried to make war on his neighbor and | halting in front of the baron, extended | the trees his mother waiting to welcome
dearest friend, Jumbo Jingler, chief] to him a royal salute. The wizard then| him, just as she stood that cool autumn
of the tribe of Jingoes, but Jumbo would | stood forward and, putting his thumbs| morning and watched him drive through
not fight as he was too busily engaged | in his ears, spake thus: the West Gate, and lingered for the last
in scientific research. He had his wiz-| ‘‘Oh baron bold in battle brave eco of him through the trees. It
ards hard at work trying to fathom the | Thy sword hast slain stout soldiery. was his last memory of home.
reason why a man who has had his] Full heavy blows received and gave— We wrapped him in his blankets, and
brains knocked out in “hors de combat’’,| Bur sufferest now from ennui. laid him in the little canoe in which he
| | could not salute the master of the lists} Thy knight, Sir Lysols, stout and true,}had spent so many happy days. I
at the end of the encounter. So there} Hast plotted up a plan to please, thought of the first time that I saw him.
was no time for helping the Baron in his] And overcome, great knight, for you It was the night. that I stumbled on
difficulty. Your listless longing lethargies their camp by Belles Amours rapids.
Consequently the baron was bored.| This game was conjured out of blood | He was cleaning his rifle, by the fireOf course he had witnessed the tearing | And bloody shall its history be light, and telling merry stories; and
to pieces of Luke the Leaper by his} With buffet, blow and thwack and thud,| that was only a month ago. I can
trained bears and had seen some twelve] Ad multos water on the knee. scarcely believe it.
men die in the lists during the week;|Oh Baron, gaze upon the band. Midnight. It is bright moon-light.
but what were such womanish practises, | Of these stout hearts before the grouped.| The fog cleared away early after
such ladylike sights to a man of the| Each many doughty deeds hath done | noon and we have made ten knots an
baron’s ilk? Mere chicken feed! He] And never yet his banner drooped. hour ever since. Not a sound is to be
craved novelty and excitement. Now you your places get ye men ‘* heard but the creak of the cordage, the
Ho! cried the baron to his lusty follow- | And show your piussance in strife. rustle of the flag at half-mast, and the
ers, as he smote the table right mightily | Let ring of aceek sound round the glen,| ripple of the water on the vessel's side;
and kicked the piper in the bag-pipes, | And let each dearly sell his life. except when a white purpoise comes to
“List to me, ye lily-livered poltroons,} Having finished, the wizard blew] the surface to breathe. The bow lookyes cum of witches’ brewings, ye poor | three blasts on his whistle-like trumpet |out has curled himself up in an old

Y ||A Leal. Ficin
. My Journal

(Continued from page 1)

   

   
  
 

 
 
  

ES > "

  
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
    
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

  

Page Three

jcsetssneeaaalpaseedaaseeenaameeeendtaedtaemmeanee pa SS a

-a party may be a bore —the lady of

one’s choice may be dancing

with ancther

-yet there's still a morsel of satisfaction in
the dreariest festivities for the man

mR

Who says

SAVE MONEY!

ON YOUR LOOSELEAF

    
   

 

 

HE PRINTING DEPARTMENT of the

 

    

dumb-bells! Long have ye obtained|and clamping the two wands on his|stay-sail. Antoine, the old Jersey sailor,
| sustenance at my board; never have [| feet, glided out on the ice, while the|stands at the wheels with his eye in
denied ye anything, and, in return, all| twelve contestants arrayed themselves|tently on a single star, by which he is
I have asked 1s that ye fight my enemies} for the fray from the gear that their|directing the course. My thoughts
for my safety and, when there are no| attendant had brought. The magician | follow my eyes as I look backward over
enemies, to fight each other for my] meanwhile had capered with many odd|the waves toward the gloomy cliffs of
delight. Lo! This long two-month] gyrations and gestures presumably in-| Anticosti,—natures’ only monument over
there has been no battle for my del-| voking the spirits, to the cage at one|the multitudes who from century to
ectation, nothing more than an odd man | end of the pond and bending low blew his| century have found their last resting
killed. Do we grow womanish? And|trumpet within it. He then propelled] place beneath the waters of the lower
you Sir Lysols, who bears the scares of| himself to the other end and blew his|St. Lawrence.

many battles whom I have chosen as| nose there.

my second in command, have you turned} Returning to the centre of the pond

SUPPLIES—SEE

FRANK M. O?NEILL

& CO., LTD.
152 Granville Street

» ay _ distinctive Dalhousie stationery.

i} Neat size crest, die stamped in }

|| yeliow and black on high id
_-—«i}: parchment paper, club size, with
Bek oe paveiepes stamped to match, suit
Imperial Publishing Co.,
Limited, is famous for
the quality of its press
work, on Booklets, Catalogues, and all kinds of
Job Printing.

Telephone Sackville 1017

        

mr able for ladies or gentlemen.
j| Sold in bulk only, buy any quantity |
ae you require,
| Faulkner’s Book Store

16 Spring Garden Road

         
  

  

Complete stock otf Loose Leaf
Books, Refills, Pencils Pens, etc.

       
  

MEDICALS HOLD DINNER

 
 
 
 

 

chicken hearted? Thou seemest con-| Hawkeye once more blew a blast on his MEETING
tent to sit around each day and be| trumpet and the twelve knights, fully
content with the small score of two or} accoutred in armour, glided out on the] The Dalhousie Students Medical

three men’s death to your credit.” — | ice. ~ Each had a pair of the wand
The noble knight’s head sunk in| shaped rods on his feet and carried in
shame. Certain it was that he was/his hands a long crooked club. The
slowing down on his delivery in combat. | assembled throng gazed in wonderment.
| The last man he had killed he had had} The knights took up positions so that
YS to hit three times with his mace before | it was seen to be a contest in which six

/ Society Brand Clothes 9} he knocked his head off. on one side were to contend with the
ET The baron once more smote the table | other six. _

Mike ya) « Tr @ | until the jug of beer at his elbow spilled! In front of each of the box like com- experience and told a few amusing

i] Now Showing New Fall Styles its contents on the upturned face of the} partments a man took up his position] stories in this connection. At the close
RE) EN eR aE gi jester, who sat at the feet of his master} and the crowd gasped as they gazed on] of the address, W. H. Soper in a few
— —-GCarrect Dress for Students _-# in-hopes of just such a deluge. these two seeming apparations.. ‘‘Cer-| words moved a vote of thanks. Thi
tie 437 BARRINGTON STREET |

Society held a dinner at the Green
Lantern on Tuesday, Jan. 17, at 6:30
p.m. At the close of the dinner the
Society was addressed by Dr. H. B.
Atlee who.told of his experience in the
East during the war. He confined his
address chiefly to the difficulties of!
‘sanitation but also spoke of his hospital

To readers of
The Dalhousie Gazette

   
    
 
   
   
 
  

| Winters-Burns Ltd |
| | . Brclusive Agents for

'FOUNTAIN PEN
| REPAIRS

Dont start the New Year handicapped with a pen that does not
} Write satisfactorily.
} It may need but slight adjusty ment—or expert repair—bring in .
the pen you can get both at |

FARRELL’S

391 Barrington St.

 

we recommend .
Kinley s|

THE REXALL
DRUG STORE

 

“Hark to me, Sir Lysols” cried the}les”, cried the aron, tweeking the] was seconded by E. S. Giddings. ‘‘Bill’
3) bold baron, “Think me up some scheme | jester’s nose in. bewilder ment, “what is} Winfield then gave a very interesting
ae to waylay this accursed boredom. Let] you bulbous, billowing form. Is’t man] account of the Vancouver Trip. He
SS aae wee" | it be an event full of the clash of arms,| or beast?” spoke of the kindness of the students o!
mk? ~ | theblareoftrumpets, the shouts of men] And well could the doughty baron] JU. B. C. and people of Vancouver, anc
Pht, B J ho n’s in battle, and streaming streams of|exclaim, for each of these two men] especially emphasized the splendid col
es . O 0 SO gushing gore. The resources of the| had half a feather bed fastened to their lege spirit of old Dalhousie graduate:
ie TWO BOBBER SHOPS
FIRST CLASS SERVICE

castle and all my men are at your dis-| middle and a pillow on each leg. Who how teside in the. west.
posal but woe betide you if you fail in] The magician once more blew the} The meeting adjourned on motion
this task which I have set you; better} whistle and dropping a round object on} It is to be regretted that the society
‘ that a millstone be tied round your neck) the ice between the two opposing ranks] was not fully represented as those pres
The Home of the Shingle and you be thrown into Materia Medica] backed off the ice on his hands and] ent agree that not only an enjoyabk
RE gone. Beat it. Scoot. I give thee} clang of steel, the thud of blows and the} spent.
ee rnin three days to think up some scheme for} throng on the bank forgot everything erent ieeenaentnseeine
my pleasure.” __ ' but the scene before them. THE MEDICAL DANCE
AND The bold knight withdrew in coa-| The battle raged furiously from one a
Cor. eee BARRINGTON fusion and for three days was not seen] end of the lake to the other. The stone Pndedl the, aifiieat! contunorahion e
Lysols endured these three days without] blows from the clubs, which the con-]|\)~.-. eee gers eet :
a wink of sleep except for the odd cat} testants swung with might and_ main. eae oe potas Cae oe Savane?
doze of ten hours or so. From these|Two opposing knights, in trying to Baer shiek will Be held: in. the fei
short naps he would awake with a start, | further the interests of their respective ersity gymnasium on Monday evening
and, after half an hour’s rumination, | companies, smote each other so shrewdly fanmery 30. Tedicatiogs are that the
lead himself around his room in despair.} blacksmith to be extracted from their | ° chs eee

He had thought of burning the castle] armour. The surface of the lake soon we ea aad a a no oe add
down and, during the conflagration, of became strewn with articles of war.|0'S\4 Diogo oe
standing on the highest battlement,} Gauntlets, helmets, spurs, pieces of & JOY
dreamily strumming a ukelele, as the} mail, bolts and screws, and other odds
never acquired the double role of tro-] while here and there lay a contestant] the baron had suffered a fit of apoplexy,
ubador and tight-rope walker, so that] who seemingly had more interest in the] due to the excitement and had to be
scheme had to be rejected. heavens than in the conbat at hand. carried away.

The last day of probation saw the] These gentlemen would, from time to _, The contest had been a huge success.
knight in the depths of despair. On the] time, rise slowly to their feet, perform | Sir Lysol’s name was _ vindicated.
please the baron or suffer the conseq-}into the wallowing, walloping fray once} doubtful, as the stone had not entered
uences of his lord’s wrath. At last as he] more. either of the compartments, but the
was about to give in to the hopelessness It had by this time become apparent effects were manifold and far-reaching.
of his task, an idea struck him and] to the throng on the shore that the aim| Nine of the twelve knights died from

knocked him flat. of this consentrated warfare was to] injuries. The baron had a stroke of

 

: A Complete Book — Stationery

For everything in and Gift Shop Service

Needs |

499 Barrington Street
Phone Sack. 61

Drug Store are
| STUDENTS’ ELEC i
| LAMPS AND SUPPLIES |

| FARQUHAR BROS. LTD. |

Barrington Street

 
    
 

 

   

Don't Neglect Your Appearance

   

 

WINNERS Fromthe

Start

For 60 years the REACH Trade
Mark on Sporting Goods has been
a mark of perfection. No matter
what your favorite sport may be, we
can supply you with equipment that
will help you play the game with
the best that's in you.

GlobeLaundry Ltd.

50 Buckingham Street

ote bl, eee
G. W. SPRAGUE, Vice-Pres.
C. W. SPRAGUE, Pres.

CLASS
WEWELLERY.

We enjoy the distinction of

making practically all Dalhousie

Class Jewellery.

We appreciate the trust placed

in us by the Dalhousie students
and in turn always assure them

of our very best service.

HENRY BIRKS & SONS
LIMITED

Diamond Merchants

   

 

 

The College Students’
Laundry

Telephone §S 714

CRAGG BROS. CO. LTD.

Hardware and Sporting Goods
HALIFAX, N. S.

for another year. Avaunt ye now. Bejknees. There was a rush of men, alpyt also an instructive evening was
ict oil in the banquet hall of the castle. Sir] flew up and down the ice propelled by Arthur Ross the dance committee of the
would take his head in his hands and|that they had to be removed to. the affair will prove one of ‘‘the events’”’ of
nifty Nero had once done. But he had] and ends cluttered the slippery surface, wasn’t exactly full of pep. Moveover
morrow he must bring forth a scheme to] a few wierd motions and then wobble| True, the outcome of the game was

HALIFAX

  
 

Say it with Flowers, Say it with ours |
THE HOME OF

  
  
  

HUBLEY’S

NOTICE! |
DRY CLEANING, DYING AND

Forthwith he sent a communication] get the round stone, by pushing, pum- aralysis on top of the apoplexy and, Special Students’ Discount

to the baron, inviting him to be present} melling, killing or maining into the] lastly, a great game had been invented

| to the baron, pee PRESSING I in
Cut lowers &- Potted Plants f | with his retinue next day at the bank | box-like compartments. A number of| Which lives and waxes strong to the : F
We on up Funeral Designs, ff of Limpid Lake, a small body of er times it had approached either com-| Present day. VALETE:iIA Cc O FY D oO RY S
also Wedding Bouquets. We also | situated a short distance from the castle. partment only to be cleverly stopped] Four years later, when Sir Lysol]|| 4 Tickets ge OM ns 2.00 | Men’s Store

The following day at the appointed} by the interference of a pillow or a|had almost recovered from the effects
time the baron with all his panoply|feather bed. The baron would howl| of the memorable contest, he was called
of power took up his position at the} with delight as the fishnet guardian|to the bedside of the baron who lay
margin of the lake and awaited develop-} would delicately turn the stone away] dying. ‘Noble Sir Lysol,” spake the
ments. In front of the assembled throng] cunningly, bringing his head in contact | mighty Thane, ‘well hast thou served
lay a keen sheet of ice, at either end of} with the missile. me in peace and war. Thy contest of
which had been placed a large fishing] After some thirty minutes play, time| four years ago lives bright in my memnet stretched over a frame to form a} had to be called to resusciate the wizard] ory. For that great service that yon
boxlike compartment. The baron, cut-| who had unwittingly put his head in the| rendered me I now bequeathe thee the
ious, questioned his henchmen, but all) way of one of the players’ clubs. Dur-| great estate here in Bunglevale.
to no avail. They knew nothing of the] ing the rest period the minstrels’ band| The magician, who was present at the
proceedings. ‘ played for the pleasure of the crowd| time, drew near to his lord and said

When expectancy was at its height and| while the opposing crowd tried to re-|‘‘Mighty baron what leavest thou
the crowd began to sway and rustle] pair the ravages of war and the ages | me in recognition of my services?"
with impatience, the sound of music] swept the accumulation of junk off the} ‘“‘The fame of thy name, Hawkeye,”
and marching men was borne to them|ice. Close inquiry showed that two] replied the baron, “That historic conon the afternoon air. Over the crest} men on either side were of no further| test, that we witnessed on Limpid Lake
of the nearest hill came a company Of] yse, so they were carted away to be| some four years ago, shall be known as
men with banners swaying in the] disposed of later. The two guardians Hawkeye. That is thy reward. Give

of the compartments were badly batter- | me now of thy wisdom as I sink into the

ed but as they had the frameword to, great beyond.

lean against they were allowed to stay} The baron lay back on his couch and

in the battle. closed his eyes, while the magician

The second part of the contest began] sitting down on the floor in the corner
with a weak blast from the trumpet of | of the room, intoned these words:

Hawkeye, who had not quite recovered} ‘‘A game of chance doth muchenchance

from the blow. This part of the con-| The life of man below.

test was much the same as the first part} Add unto this a riots bliss

only more so. You, gentle reader, have} And streaming blood’s red flow.

many times howled yourself hoarse at} A dash of fight, a show of might,

its counterpart. Of course the ranks of] Will add unto the game

the contestants were sadly depleted but | All summed in one we have this fun

still the spirit ran high. Suffice to] And hawkeye is it’s name.”
say that play was finally brought to an} The baron turned his face to the wall

end through lack of leaving material} in disgust and yielded up the ghost. | jf
to carry on hostilities. Sir Lysols on|I pray, gentle reader, that, after read- ||
account of his abnormally thick pate|ing attempt, you will not do likewise.
was the only one left standing and he —TAH.

do Table Decorating. We are the 52 SACKVILLE ST.

_ only members of the T. F. D. Florists. We can wire Flowers to §
# all parts of the world.

. |
Dh aie Bosers YOUR BARBER!

CENTRAL—The nearest Barber
Shop to the College.

SERVICE—Always four experianced barbers in attendance.

SATISFACTION GUARANTEED
Special Bobbing Parlors

For Ladies

A. PUBLICOVER

23 Spring Garden Road

Dathousie Stationery

24 Sheets Writing Paper
stamped with the Dalhousie Crest and 24 Envelopes to match.

Special 50c Box

8 BLOWERS ST.
- Phone Sac. 3321-3322
Night Phone Sac. 1934

The
Halifax Chronicle
+e AND
eh The
|| Balifax Daily Star

The
i is a
'

Connolly’s Book Shop

487 BARRINGTON ST.
Opposite St. Paul’s Church

 

The Greatest Asset of a business is to give customers

what they want—when they
want tt.

JO ANU SOCIETY PRINTING

always delivered when
promised at the

Nova Print Limited

227-229 Hollis Street
One Biock North of Post Office

  

All Dalhousie Students

especially the Book Lovers
are cordially invitedto make

  

(ieorge F. Power
Cigars Cigarettes, Cobaccos
SMOKERS’ REQUISITES

 
     
 

THE BOOK ROOM

141 Granville Street
their Headquarters

 
 

i, x , i

of every Description.

 
 

—Also—

Cards, Souvenirs of Halifax

Majestic Bidg. ©
HALIFAX 33

astest growing
PH ' b.
_ mewspapers In

 
 

a

 
 

Come in and browse and
make yourself at home.

E. VICKERY, Manager.

Rl

 
 

N. S.

 
 

7

|| Nova Scotia

ob

A
rae
er reeee oes <n

 

 
  
  
  
  

é
by = 5 ih, 1
fey ee ee ee
L'a ‘ es
: S 7 - r
. —_
“om i ee we ‘
SS ™ ; 7 i “4 7 =~ Hh
+ (i sg p as
I JUL Ae
u Fe ee
i

  
 
   
 

    

a ?
‘ 7 Jee ‘ - .
‘ !
|) |
«ae fo
t : é m = a
et SAG
‘ - sS
2 i ,
fn | ’
j ‘

  
  
 
 

  
  
 

 
 
 

liate

 
 

r

7 ne
*

 

  

 

het second

first game the Tigers had the

r

    
 

LAW

i ee
’
h aie
ie x

  

mee:
aa
ae,

j ty ru

‘| _—_ ed up well and should be well up among
| __—_—.: the candidates for the first team.
and Davidson, on the form they have
ee aepey te date should be pretty safe

  
    
  

tr

“

  

  

| t a vee
fe ie

Rise ai)

: ‘
{
a 4
j=>

“ily
ea

¥ “¥ ' 7
te he
a +.
i

r
a
mh ar

ye
¥ Mi a!

‘ ay .
ee },s
f ‘aby " vs

Fea

dj 5

opening session
Z

aight.

oh back,
them.

for first place in the league.

   

Black h

until the final whistle.
- Hugh R

f .
Ross and Davi

for berths on the Senior squad.

_ The Tigers ran up an early lead in the
andl when it ended they
- were on the long end of a 17-9 score.
_ The playing of the team in this period
was splendid and should they keep up
the a work another championship
for the Dal hoopsters spaces to be in
rame the “Y”

_ five started a rally which carried them
_ within one lone basket of tying the
score but just as they seemed to be in a

In the second

position wherein they might have changed the result of the game the Tigers
bucked up and the Reds were turned
with the final score 26—21 against

tie with the Wanderers
These
‘two teams will meet in the near future
and needless to say a great game is
expected. In Saturday's game the
Tigers were without the services of
Pottie who had been playing a good game
at relief guard. Pottie had the misfortune to injure his hand in practise
and it is likely that he will be unable to
play for some time. The Tigers lined
up as follows:
Blenkinsop, Goudge, Davidson, 16;
Ross 10; Parker, Fraser.

—J. W. W.

Dal are now

    
   

     
 

|CO-EDS GET WIN
OVER Y.W.C.A.

The Dalhousie Intermediate Girls’
‘basketball team defeated the Y. W. C.
A. ogee by a small margin in the West
End Baptist Hall on last Monday night.
The game was fast and rough in spots.
At no time was it certain which team

M.C.A.|

Dal second Basketball squad
straight win in the
Intermediate League, by defeating
_ the crack “Y" five 26 to 21 at the Y gym
last Saturday night. Displaying even
_ better form than they showed in i
first. e we
in hand in the first period and although

 
      
     
         
   

he Y rallied in the second the Gold and
Black hoopsters were not to be defeated
and successfully held off their opponents

       

. dson were the
stars for the Tigers, between the two
of them they tallied all the Dal points.
» Davidson scored sixteen points and Ross
ten. On the defence Tom Parker show
       
      
   

Ross

    
       
   
     
   
      
    

 

 

would win. Scores were made by one

opposing team evened the points with

ran high all through the game.

of 14—10 in favor of the ‘‘Y”’.
second
to the fore and made a splendid comeback. The forwards cleared well and

centres.

or a lead. A tie seemed inevitable but
Of the V7.
Dalhousie.
and Betty Freeman.
Line-up: Centres: M.
J. Dumaresq, E. Cameron;

{. Freeman, M. Thompson, Atherton.

DAL NIGHT AT FORUM

_ Tonight the first Dalhousie
skating party will be staged
when the doors of the Forum
will ‘be thrown open to the
students of

the University.
Tickets are being issued to the
students and these must be
presented at the door. An
Interfaculty hockey match is
scheduled to take place from
seven to eight o’clock, after
which the ice, surface will be
open for general skating.

 

 

 

INTERFACULTY BASKET |
ee BALL SCHEDULE

oat: ‘The Interfaculty Basketball League will get under way to-morrow afternoon

when four games of the scheduled league will be run off.

The opening game of

the league will be between the Engineers and the Lawyers. The leagues are divVso ided into two sections, A and B. Section A includes Engineers, Law, Meds and
Fame ie a Dentistry. Section B: Arts, Commerce, Freshmen and Theology. In the following schedule each team meets each other team in its section twice, the winners of
each section will play-off at the close of the regular schedule. The schedule:

Date 2.30 3.10
Jan. 21st Eng. vs. Law; Dents vs Meds Arts vs Theol
Jan. 28th
Feb. 4th: Dents vs Eng. Meds vs Law
Feb. 11th:
Feb. 18th: Eng. vs Meds
Feb. 25th:

Mar. 3rd:

3.50 4.30

Com vs Fresh.

Arts vs Com. Theol. vs Fresh Dents vs Law Meds vs Eng

Com. vs Theol. Fresh vs Art

Com. vs Frosh Theol. vs Arts Meds vs Dents Law vs Eng

Law vs Dents Frosh vs Theol Arts vs Com.
Arts vs Frosh Theol. vs Com. Eng. vs Dents Law vs Meds.
Winner of Section A vs winner of Section B.

On

SS ———————————eeeeOOoOoeoeaeoeaqoquqoT“‘“=eaennananaEj_l*S =: € i i i

 

MEN IN PRISON FIND NEPENTHE| DENTAL SOCIETY HAVE MEET
ISON FIND E MEETING

 

Nearly Ninety Wisconsin Convicts
Are Busy With the University
Correspondence Course

The saving grace of study to those
shut behind prison bars is testified
to by convicts reached by the Extension Division of the University of
Wisconsin. To those inmates of the
State Prison, nearly ninety in number, who are enrolled in correspondence
study courses sen by the division
education by mail not only holds the
promise of better preparation for normal life, but serves as an anadyne to
bitter memories.

Not alone the young men with short
terms to serve, who might be expected

to turn to study as a means of increasing |
earning Capacity when they start their ||

. “comeback” into civil life, but older

\ ic
ipo ea
2 ne

fe Phys
a ee 4
ial
i
*
rw
| pe

a
y
Sj
«

¢s
;
ie
«i i *, 2

Ag 0%

— in which ap ]
Swain, Emily Fitzroy, Kai Schmidt,|}

men who have served years of their

sInger sentences are numbered in the ||
gooup of prisoners who do their weekly |

arsignments.

—_——_—e—_—____.

STORY OF RUSSIAN REVOLUTION | f

___“Mockery"’ scheduled for the Casino | ff
. Theatre next Monday is Lon Chaney’s |}

 

newest starring vehicle.

The story is a gripping drama of the |

Russian revolution, with Chaney in

the role of a strange hermit-like peasant |
pe through a strange trick of fate,|}f
isp ee into the midst of the struggle | |

of revolutionists against aristocrats.

Barbara Bedford plays the leading 1

feminine role in the new production,
r Ricardo Cortez, Mack

Charles Puffy and others of note.

‘

ba

UB j
a} ras mrs $03;

 

_ The Dental Society held an enthuslastic meeting in the Munro Room last
Saturday, at which many matters of
importance weretaken up. Purv Millet,
president of the Society was in the Chair.
Among other matters, it was decided to
hold a banquet about the first of March.
The committee in charge of arrangements was appointed as follows: Harris
Taylor, Duxberry and Craig. It was
also decided to conduct a smoker this
month. Athletics was discussed, reports of different committees being submitted. Ed. Craig was elected manager
of the Dents’ hockey team.

MODERN

PRINTING
t

a
MODERATE
Cost

T. C. Allen & Co’

124 & 126 Granville Street

 

Good Music

THE ANNUAL MEDICAL DANCE

i

Enjoyment

ne ree sateen anaes —————— Ls

team and in the next few minutes the

outbursts of speed. Both sides were
eager for the victory and excitement

The ‘“‘Y” has a crack team which is
accurate in their passing, intercepting
and especially in catching. They had
the decided edge on the Dal players in
the first period which ended with a score
In the
riod the Dalhousie girls came

were given the ball by the guards and
Basket after basket was scored
while the fast “‘Y’’ players evened the

oint time after time and fought hard

Dal ended the game one basket ahead
When the final whistle
blew the score stood 22—20 in favor of
Mina Juden and Dot Jost
starred for the ‘Y’’, while the pick of
the Dal players were Eileen Cameron

MacDonald,
Guards:
1: Fraser, E. Shaw, P. Miller; Saved ;

Room.

capable leadership of Joe Connolly and

Hollis Street.
will address the meeting. Mr.
‘graine, who is in charge of the Immigration work in Halifax, is a forceful and

   
  
 
 
  
 

‘DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Those
| Old Days

HARVARD IN 1725

A CHANCE
MEETING

While going down a sunny street

The other day I chanced to meet

Two ladies of the bourgeoisie

And they were wondrous strange to see.
One was tall and very thin

Quite like a slightly bended pin

All covered o’er by Time’s soft tread
With rust most delicately spread.
Though one could easily surmise

That forty years ago the skies
Beheld a stately graceful belle

Who played croquet and waltzed quite

well.
And as she walked she bent her head
O'er her companion who though red
And rotund had the busy air
Of knowing whether madam's hair
Were all her own or if the maid
Had twenty beaux to one and stayed
Awake at night to figure out
How Mrs. Jones and Mrs. Stout
Could quite afford to get new furs.
Their old ones were as good as hers.
And as she walked she gave her ear
A perky twist so she might hear
The whispered words of her lean friend
Nor miss a single one yet lend
Her eyes to all that happened near
And half to look around for fear
Sone one should hear the spicy bit
Of news and tell another. It
Must surely not be known. Of course
She'll tell her sister but the force
Of all the king’s fine cavalry
And all his men could never be
Enough to make her breathe a word
To anyone. She must have heard
The saw that women cannot keep
A secret. Just how light or deep
Their thoughts were I should like to
know
But never shall.

 

 

 

That teachers preparing candidates
for Harvard had their troubles as far
back as 1725 is made clear in the Harvard Alumni Bulletin by the following
letter, written in that year_......

York July 2d. 1725.

Revd and Dear Sir,

These are to address you in favour of
the bearer, Amos Main, a Young Man
that has been exercising his Powers on
Latin and Greek Tongues these six or
seven Years; but under inexpressible
Disadvantages........ This poor Lad has
seldom come less than two Miles to
School; he has also been continually
harrassed by his envious Brethren at
home. He did on these Accounts remove to Cambridge, where he Spent
about a Year, much to his advantage.
But the last Six Months he has been
again with me. In the Winter he
boarded in the House where I taught,
and the last Quarter the School has
been kept at his Father’s House. I
now at length adventure to offer him
to Examination, in Order to his Admission. If he should be found somewhat Raw; yet I hope you'l wink at it.
He is come to Years of Discretion and
will doubtless by future Diligence
make up for his Present Deficiencies.
His Parents flattered themselves with
the Hopes of his Entering the last Year;
and if they should now be disappointed
they will be for ever discouraged from
making any: other Attempt. And _ it
would cast a Damp on the School that
I fear whether severall other very
hopeful Children will not be prevented
from proceeding in their Learning. |
leave the case with your Wisdom and
Goodness. Wishing you much of the
Presence and Grace of Christ in the
Discharge of the Weighty Trust committed by him to you I subscribe

Your old sincere Friend
& Ready Servant
Jos. Moodey.

Tis strange but so.

—R. E. G.

 

GLEE CLUB NOTES

 

The first performance of this term will
be held on Friday evening, January 27.
An election will be held for the positions
of Secretary and Technician, made
necessary by the resignations of Walter
Ross and Carl Hood who have withdrawn owing to illness and pressure of
work, respectively. In order to take
as little time with the election as possible
nominations must be in by 12 noon,
Thursday, the twenty-sixth.

eV

 

SEE WALLACE

OPTOW ETRIST AND OPTICIAN
Y. M. C. A. BLDG. HALIFAX, N.S

The first rehearsal for the Glee Club
orchestra was a decided success and it is} |
hoped that many more will turn out|§
this Saturday at 2:30 in the Munro

   

 

 
    
 
 
  
 

TUXEDOS

My new price on Tuxedos

Delta Gamma is to start work imm
ediately on a big musical show under the :
s

‘Keltie Holman. considerable comment throughout
the Dominion.
a“ ”
' THE NONCHALANT

SILK LINED
AT MY NEW PRICE

$24.50
Robinson’s Clothes Ltd.

444 Barrington St.
Opp. Roy Building
“Walk Up Stairs and Save Ten"

NEWMAN CLUB MEETING

 

A meeting of the Newman Club will
be held next Sunday afternoon at 3:15
in the Knights of Columbus Hall on
Rev. Abbe C ae

‘as
   
 

— ee

experienced speaker.

 

COLWELL BROTHERS

Limited
453-457 Barrington Street

MEN’S HATS, CLOTHING, FURNISHINGS
AND LUGGAGE

HIGH CLASS GOODS AT MODERATE PRICES

 

  
 

Technical

Offers
ENGINEERING COURSES

in
CIVIL, ELECTRICAL, MECHANICAL AND MINING
To Dalhousie Students with Engineering Diploma
MODERN EQUIPMENT

Instructing Staff with Industrial Experience
Tuition Fee* $75.00 per year. Twenty-five scholarships of $75.00 each

Write or call for Calendar or advice.
F. H. SEXTON, Pres.

 

Oo

For the earnest young man on the threshold of business life, nothing can
give a greater sense of present security, or givea greater certainty of future
progress, than to hold an endowment policy.

Only prudent and forward-looking men insure their lives—but these are
the qualities that impress employers for they bespeak the man who expects
success. And the payment of a good sum in early or middle life will give effect
to all the work that has gone before.

THE SUN LIFE ASSURANCE CO OF CANADA
to W. W. BARRY,

Provincial Manager,
Room 309,
Dennis Building, Halifax

 

Announcing

Monday January 30th,

 

 

 

 

————— — —_

January 20th, 1928

 

“CITY GONE WILD” LOOKS LIKE
THOMAS MEIGHAN’S BEST

      

 

Thomas Meighan in a role slightly
reminiscent of ‘‘The Miracle Man”.
Thomas Meighan in a modern melodrama of life in a big city. Thomas
Meighan as the district attorney who
proposes to end a deadly gang war
only to discover that his fiancee’s father is the ‘‘man behind the gun” in
the underworld. Thomas Meighan in
a strong he-man role. Thomas Meighan as a crusader who goes down iInto the haunts of gangsters in an effort to get his man—and gets him with
bare fists! Thomas Meighan in the
finest role of his career!

That's what we're promised in ‘The
City Gone Wild’ which arrives at the
Majestic Friday and Saturday From
all reports, it shapes up as Meighan’s
best picture to date. James Cruze
directed from an original story by
Chatles and Jules Furthman. Marietta Millner and Louise Brooks are
featured.

CASINO |

MILTON SILLS .

\ with
» | Doris Kenyon

tn
“The Valley of the Giants”’

Peter B. Kyne’s virile story of
the Northwest

     
     
       
   
     
     
    
  

SOCOOCOOO

   

NEXT, MON-TUE-WED.
LON CHANEY

in
“*“Mockery”’

 
         
     
 

A Dramatic romance of the

Russian revolution

 
         
  
 
 

As Usual

The best in Ice Creams, Con
fectionery and Meals, as well!

as courtesy, efficent service and

attractive surroundings are to
be had at

 
 

} TO-DAY AND SATURDAY
i “THE CITY
| GONE WILD” |

with
Thomas Meighan

 
       
     
   
   
   

  

I MON. TUE. WED.
}‘‘THE NOTORIOUS jf
| LADY’’ §

Lewis Stone—Barbara Bedford

The Green Lantern

 
   
 

 

 
   
    
   

STRAND “THE CARROLL

NOW
PLAYERS”

   

    
 
 
 

NOVA SCOTIA
NURSERY

1088to 1090 Barrington St.
—THREE PHONES-—

Cut Flowers, Bouquets and all
Floral Work.

 
 

ORPHEUS

MON. TUE. WED.
Clear the tracks for

“CASEY JONES”

The greatest of all Railroad
Melodramas

     
  
   
 
 

 

BUSTER KEATON

COMING
NEXT THUR. FRI. SAT.

   

SHOE!

College men and _ college
women have shoe styles all
their own—we find English
lasts great favourites’ with
college men. We have
these in

ENGLISH MADE SHOES

Also best Canadian makes
as ‘*Astoria’’ Brand.

 
    
  
  
  

—

 

 

Both men and women students will find our Spring |
Garden Road Branch a }
call

  
 

BUTTONS ON

 
   
 

 

   
   
 

 

 

great convenience, or
at the Main Store—555-559 ff} f
Barrington St. RENTS MENDED
W.L Tuttle | | HOLES DARNED
° ° ut c H That’s the service you get _
) free when you send YOUR
Laundry to Ungar’s.

   
  

VALETERIA

tHE SONG SHOP tte.
for ANYTHING in

  

A new pressing Service:
Your Suit or Overcoat

        
    

MUSIC coh on ae ar tienen
‘ : 1o
22 Spring Garden Rd. for $2.00. : Sa

   

Halifax,

Canada

 

a

NECKTIES cleaned 10c

UNGAR’S

Halifax, N.S.

  
  

Our High Quality Standard |

makes our Low Price

      
 
  
 

 

Barrington St.,

   

 

      

 

Doubly Attractive Sack 428 Har. 127
| ‘ LAUNDERING DYEING
SUITS, OVERCOATS CLEANING VALETERIA

    
 
 
 

FULL DRESS and
TUXEDO, at one

price

MADE-TO-MEASURE
Tip Top Tailors
THE STUDENTS’ TAILORS

TRAMWAY BUILDING
Barrington and Sackville Sts

 

SOAP

For one week beginning January 23rd.

4 Cakes of 10c. soap
for 29c.

Winsom, Coles, Jergms

   
   
  
 

Freeman’s Pharmacy

COR. COBURG aND HENRY

  

PIANOS, VICTROLAS,

Small Musical  Instruments and Victor Records

We invite you to join our

FICTION LENDING LIBRARY

2 cents per day

MeDonald Music Co,

393 Barrington St. Halifax

Novelties

Welcome

 

 
