   
  
  
   
  
   
 
   
  
 
  
   
  
   
   
  
 
  
   
  
 
   
   
   
   
 
 
  
  
  
   
 
   
  
    
 
  
   
  
  
   
   
   
  
    
  
  
 
  
    
   
  
  
 
 
  
  
    
  
   

evening,
| and his boys,

t tions. The scene was laid in the
country home of the bride-to-be,
ith the action taking place in the
oom of the prospective brideoom, who spent the first fifteen
utes looking for his collar but, the next five fighting with his
e, the next five outlining his
eory of perfect happiness, which
was a direct steal from Dorothy Dix,
_ and the last five minutes in a heavy
cli ch (Ed. note, “wrastling”’’).
As the play developed into its
di max, the best man, who closely
zee Mie coubied an undertaker in his tail
ce al , black vest and black tie, and
ae oN iho managed to drive everybody
_ erazy, found the proverbial lost
Sag vedding ring, and after ordering
everybody about, especially Aunt
ae 2 oa sueceeded in having the orstra play, “Here Comes the
Bride”, (Ed. note, we are led to believe that the play takes its name
¥ = 0 oa this), at just the wrong time.
everything being wrong anyay, the scrapping lovers were reted by the aid of Dad, Ma, and
“Ned Sparks” Teddy.
_ The leading role was well taken
John Muallane.-Charlotte Murphy
fh the part of Alice, bride- tope. The comedy was furnished by
‘i Fred Barton as Teddy, and all that,
Way needed to make the perfect Ned
darks was the cigar. Darrell PurBy, Edward Cragg and Phil Walsh
is remaining characters in the cast
ai lid their parts well.
‘ The second part of the program
Por nsisted of a number of feats of
gic, mixed with puns, by Roy
ant. Disappearing handkerchiefs,

 

bottles, which would have
a any revenue officer, held the

Jerry and his Been filled the remainder of the program with de_lightful modern rhythms, “Stormy
Weather” being his most populalr
pemering
| Fran Gardner and Bill Stevens
? Rate the high lights of the evening,
- i a i they captured the audience with
l. <| their messages in song.

 

/ The remainder of the evening was

pans ‘spent in the regular post-Glee Club

‘ _ | Show dance, which too was novel in

~ tf that there were few left to enjoy
el the added entertainment.

Arab Will Lead
_ Against U.N. B.

On Friday night trials for the det tat which will take place at Dalusie in three weeks’ time with the
Piieivarsity of New Brunswick were
; ost in the Munroe Room.

The resolution was, “Resolved that
| Beonomic Unrest of the World will
3 ' _ ne essitate the Acceptance of the
| Pr inciples of Socialism”.

Cogent evidence that interest in
Fie sbating at Dalhousie has revived
Tay in the fact: that no less than
wen students turned out to pareae in these trials. Each speakr was limited to five minutes and
uld take either side of the propoBition

Pp e Mouser Bemett, Curtis and
r fen capably filled the position of
dging the contestants.

essts. Arab anid Webber of the
vi ¢ School, and Andrews of Com
 

ae Metter, Daley, MeLe Grow, Burchell, Fergund Kitz, —

As

" ht in the Gym. The play,
iat have been surnamed “collar button, collar
ton, who has.the collar button?” was far below the standard

of the usual Newman Club presen- |

 

Official Student Publication

NTE nn eee eens eee ee ee ae ee ee NOVA SCOTIA, FEBRUARY 28, 1935

 

slee Club Presents
Varied Programme

Music — Magic — and Marriage

hat would otherwise be a dull and monotonous
pO ince and Fran Gardner, accompanied by Jerry
once again scored a hit with the Glee Club aud
“Here Comes the

 

 
  
   
  
   

MUNRO DAY PLANS

Full details of the Council’s preparations for the
Munro Day celebration will
be carried in next week’s
Gazette, according to a
‘promise given us by Gordon
Thompson, chairman of the
committee in charge.

 

Class Meetings Flop
When Maidens Hop

 

Classes ’36 and ’37 held meetings
on Saturday which marked a new
record for low attendances. ‘There
was a total of about eight of each
class who put in appearance. The
majority were over in the Gym
watching Dalhousie’s fair ones smear
Mt. A’s little ladies. Class ’37 decided that it would hold another meeting Tuesday, feelingth at the lack of
a quorum prevented the nomination
of candidates to the Students’
Council.

Class 86 had no worries and went;memory of George Munro,

about picking two ladies and two

 

 

 

Dalhousie’s Benefactor

ree

\ \ ;
Win enn
AAA VOY
it Ay

> > Ee
eae ate
> vie’

a

eS z
nh 7
CN

uf ast

A

 

GEORGE MUNRO

All Dalhousians on
March 14, will gather to honor the
“The |

Great Benefactor of Dalhousie”.

 

Thursday,)| of Philosophy.

Besides endowing these five chairs

he offered bursaries for yearly com
petition. They were worth $150 and

gentlemen, the Misses Ledingham|Mr. Munro was a native of Pictou /$200 and tenable for two years with

and MacGregor, and Messrs. Stan‘field and Murphy to grace the election ballots. But Miss MacGregor,

County, N. S., and taught for a time
in the Free Church Academy before
leaving for New York where he}

who was absent, declined the honor | Made a fortune as a publisher.

in view of the already overburdening profusion of offices which she
holds.

Beginning in 1879, Mr. Munro
founded no fewer than five chairs,

So Class ’86 had to meet; besides supporting tutors in classics

again on Tuesday to select another|and mathematics and supplying val
candidate.

On Tuesday these classes reassembled. The Juniors deputed Miss Ruth
Sumner, their present female Council representative, to replace Miss
MacGregor on the Class ’36 ticket.
There was some discussion of the
Junior-Senior dance, resulting in a
decision to hold it at the Nova
Scotian, with the Seniors admitted
free, but paying 75 cents for their
supper. This arrangement is to be
submitted to the graduating class
for its opinion.

Class ’87 met for a few moments
and chose the Misses Fran Gardner
and Isabel Fraser, and the Messrs.
Henry Ross and Gordon Thompson
to be their candidates to the Council.

Shirreff Hall Notes

The week- nad was st aBeat by most
Hall girls in sighs and arm-rubbing
and sleeping following the wholesale
inoculation carried out for the prevention of an outbreak of paratyphoid ‘B’,

Del Wallace took a definite turn
for the better last week and is now
rapidly convalescing, although it will
be some little time before she will
be back with us again.

Donny Douglass has been pretty
ill of late, but is now believed to be
on the upgrade. Ida Maynard is also
down at the V..G. for special treatment. Jimmie McNeil is in the Halifax Infirmary recovering . from
appendicitis.

Charlotte Crosby is getting about
again after her confinement due to
a badly sprained ankle.

Ted Crease and Don Saunderson
fell asleep in the reception room on
Friday evening somewhat to the consternation of their hostesses. ‘

Everybody has been busy for sometime now getting all set for the
Delta Gamma which takes place this
evening.

Edith (Cox is out again.

 

;and preparations are under way for the annual elections.

uable bursaries for properly qualified students. In 1879 he endowed
the chair of Physics and later in the
same year the chair of History and
Political Economy. A chair in English Literature followed. It was the
first professorship of English, and
English alone, to be founded in a
Canadian college. In 1883, Mr.
Munro founded the chair of Consti- |

tutional and International Law in ‘in Canada,

 

the result that not only were students of superior ability attracted to
Dalhousie, but secondary education
throughout the province was stimulated and improved.

Altogether this great philanthropist expended $350,000 on Dalhousie.
It was the first large sum given to
any college in Canada, and is especially noteworthy because it went to
the improvement of the staff and
students, and not to the erection of
buildings. Mr. Munro’s wise and
timely munificence set Dalhousie
firmly on her feet, He will be held
in everlasting remembrance as the
first and greatest of our benefactors.
His gifts, at that time unequalled
challenged admiration

the newly organized Law School,'and provoked men of wealth to do
which came into being the same more for our universities and col
year.

Finally he founded the chair | leges.

 

Council Candidates Named

With Students’ Council elections but a week away, the
stage now seems to be all set for this great annual event.
Every student is urged to turn out to vote for those whom he
deems would be the most likely to be energetic and useful

Council members.

All classes and societies have now chosen their candidates,

Six

of the twenty-four candidates have had previous Council experience.- All have held executive offices in organizations somewhere at sometime, and all have been active in student activities in the past. The opportunities for electing an outstand
ing Council seem good.
The candidates are:
Medicine—Hal Taylor,
Trask.
Law—Charlie Manning,
Dentistry—Still unnominated.

Bob MacLellan,

Gerry Lebrun, Carl

George Thompson.

Engineerine—Lou Petrie, Elmer Ball.
Commerce—Rudd Hattie, Maurice Lawrence.

Class ’36—Mary Ledingham.
George Murphy.

Class '37—_Fran’ Gardner,
Thompson.

| Class ’38—Fred Barton,

Isabel Fy raser

Ruth

Sumner, Bob Stanfield.

, Henry Ross,.Gordon

David MacLellan.
Freshman Repres sentative—Milt Musgrave,

John Fisher.

See mentee oe ee eee

NEW CANDIDATES PICKED FOR D.A.A.C.

At a wild session of the
A.C, management committee on
Sunday morning, the previously
chosen candidates for the presidency of the D.A.A.C. were shelved on the grounds that they were
running for the Students’ Counci!
and therefore should not hold exe.
cutive office on the D.A AC.

DA.

EXECUTIVE

6B. Barnhill, Medicine, and Robert

FF, MacLellan, Law, are the new
candidates for the presidency.
The other candidates are as before:

Vice - President: Ted Crease,
Henry Re 18S,

Secretary - Treasurer: Maurice

Dean, Eric Mercer,

|

ee :
es / a
ay gh aay ;
oad ich ee
7

er

at Dalhousie University

 

No. 18

 

 

1, Presents .-—~*«|_~S~«C‘éiadihoasie’s Benefactor = |Warm Meeting of D.A.A.C.

Four New Proposals Passed

A fiery session of the D. A. A. C. was held on Tuesday in
the Gymnasium with a total attendance of about forty. Four

motions were made and carried.

Ernie Richardson moved that in future elections for the
executive officers of the D. A. A. C. there must be at least two
nominees for each office, with the Vice-President and Secretary-Treasurer students at Studley in the year of their office,
and that the President be a man with experience on either the
Students’ Council or the Management Committee of the D. A.

A. C.,

oron similar organizations at other universities.

Lengthy

discussion ensued, the motion being eventually seconded by Ian
MacKeigan, and carried unanimously. The amendment also
included specifications that the Management Committee be
composed of one member representing each of the societies of
Arts and Science, Commerce, Engineering, Medicine, and Dentistry, two members of the faculty of the University, and also
a man to be appointed by the outgoing committee to serve on
the incoming committee who has had experience on either the
Management Committee or the Students’ Council.

 

 

NOTICE

A meeting of the Badmingtoi.
Club will be held in the gymnasium Saturday afternoon at 3.30
for the purpose of electing a

manager for the next year.

 

 

Dal Girls Lose
Close Decision

The Girls’ Debating Team of U.N.
B. defeated a team of Dalhousie
Girls, Thursday night at Fredericton
on the resolution — “Resolved that
the Tudor Age was more beneficial
to the world than the Modern Age.
The argument for the affirmative
was opened by Alice Kean of U. N.
B. who defined the resolution and
pointed out the great contribution of |
the Tudor Age to our Modern Era
in culture education and nation
solidification.

Dalhousie’s

French Revolution.

The second affirmative speaker, the

Rebecca Munro,
Renaissance and

dealt with
the

Bob MacLellan, of Law, moved an
amendment in regard to the submission to the Management Committee of budgets for the various
sports previous to specified dates.
This was discussed and passed, having been seconded by Henry Ross.

Bob MacLellan, D. A. A. C. Seeretary-Treasurer, moved an amendment in regarding to the awarding

of “D’s” for the various sports. The

section read that “Upon a man be|
}

al , Ross and Bob Donahoe cast

argument was intro- two
duced by Grace McIntyre who dealt and Carl Stoddard
with modern progress due to the’ their agreement with
Agricultural and Industrial Revolu- of the motion, which
tions, also the accepted political | after a sHott brush
rights of our Age which have grown’ Secretary and Messrs.
out of the great battlecry of the! Ferguson.

the unanimous approval.
consequent seconded the motion, which carried.

new state of mind which was creat-|
ed. More’s Utopia was credited with executive officers of the D. A. A. C.

originating all modern social re- | be in future restricted from occupy
forms.

Nancy Thorne of Dalhousie con-| pus.

coming entitled and being awarded
his first three felt “D’s” as heretofore provided he shall be awarded a
gold “D” as styled by the Council
of Students.”

This motion aroused the ire of
Messrs. Peters and Ferguson, who
resented the obstacles being raised
to the easy attainment of gold “D’s”.
It was pointed out for their benefit
that a man could still secure a gold

|““D” in one year by playing in three

major sports, or in one major sport
for three years, and so on. Henry
scath| ing criticism in the direction of the
objectors. Ernie Richardson
also expressed
the propriety
was carried
between. the
Peters and
Mr. Richardson suggested that personalities be omitted from
discussion, which met with
Bob Donahoe

Ernie Richardson moved that all

ing other major offices in the camIn answer to a question from

tinued the discussion, stressing the|the floor as to what the major of
great improvement in our modern fices

standard of living. The modern era
has seen great culture advance, in

music, literature and education. |troversy, the motion was seconded
Today, even the humblest citizen has, by Ian MacKeigan and carried.

 

every opportunity to obtain a free |

education.
The final affirmative speaker, |
Frances Crocker, dealt with the

commercial expansion of the Tudor
Period. Modern Science was found
ed in this period with the discovery the co- -operation of the Management

of the microscope, thermometer, etc.

The argument of the negative was ‘its feet again, with a considerable
concluded by Margery Mitten, who degree of success,

discussed the great contributions’

' gratulate

!

that science has made to our age. |

Diseases formerly fatal are today |
controlled by the new knowledge |
which the doctor has” acquired. The |
great advantages of medical science,
in the fields of pathology, bacterio- |
logy’and zoology could not be overestimated, the speaker said.

In rebuttal Miss McIntyre stressed |
the scientific attitude of our Age in
contrast to an Age when all the
benefits of any new invention were
confined to an autocratic King and
his Court and the Nobles.

Concluding the de -bate, Miss Kean
of U. N. B. held that material prosperity must not
real progress.

be confused with
useless if resulting leisure is
used intelligently.

Judges were Mr. W. J. West, Judge
C. D. Richards. and Mrs. A. F. Bate,* i
I all of Fredericton.

not )

Modern machinery is | er selection of candidates

John Fisher was in charge of the
proceedings, entertaining the gathering with a vitriolic and verbose denunciation of the fraternities im
Dalhousie politics, He deplored the
| failure of the students to rise te
' stamp out this hideous monster
which has cast its shadow over the
university spirit, and over the prop
President Likely presented a brief
;report of last week’s party in the
Lower Gym, which appears to have

were, President Thompson
enumerated almost every office that 4
exists. However, after heated con
Before motion of

Bob Donahoe rose

adjournment,
again to cofithe executive on their
work during the present year, after
a statement by the President that
the officials had worked hard with

Committee to put the D.A.A.C. on

 

Class ’38 Meeting

The Freshman Class met on Thurs
day last at noon in Room 8 of the
| Arts Building for the selection of
candidates for the Students’ ¢ vouncil,

resulting in the choice of David Maclellan and Fred Barton.

incured
treasury.

a cost of $33 to the class

 
Pre

eave |

* =

— the twentieth century stage.

agus

ret

a
a

ca BOG
Business Manager
- ¢. D. WALLACE ROWLINGS

‘a el
—~ <—
azette

EDITORIAL STAFF
| Editors
W. A. REID
B. 5827
Sports Editor
BILL DAVIS
B. 4884

Assistant

ARTHUR MEAGHER
B. 2886

__ News Editor

B. 4647

me Sy

—
) . +
TCT? COT
Fi c
ai My .

oF
a.

he

ws

HAS YOUTH A CHANCE?

iat

a

es

: oa A debate was recently held in this University on the sub
ject, “Resolved that, in the present social order old age has an

| i " i i their
- unfair advantage over youth.” The affirmative team won
- ease in the opinion of the judges and have gone to seek further
laurels. , |
The subject itself became quite a topic for controversy at
this institution. Young men and women in the process of pree paring themselves for the trials of the world asked themselves

/ _ and each other what the prospects will be when they are out

on their own.

- Is youth held back by an unreasonable social tradition

__ which prevents them from getting anywhere? This was argued

¥
ae
_

om

“a

a

=

fl
a:
a7

=
i

are

~

ae

a

v

yy the debaters and later by their fellow Dalhousians. It has
: one of the questions of the day with newspapers, maga-gines, and public speakers—as a result of what? Surely, as a
result. of the determination of post-war youth to move to
greater heights, to try its hand where years and experience

have wrought untold havoc?

eee

There’s the point. The youth of today are bent on taking

ae the
the helm. Young men and women righteously feel that
Pe, a the modern age, created by the past two generations,

4

.

—

ig

et
a

pe
a

7.)
iS.

i

3.

has increased to a momentum that calls for “the vim, and the

igor, and the vitality” of young men and women. The older
Beh erAtions have lost control of their Frankenstein, and the
younger people feel that they are entitled to a leading role on

There is no doubt that this is true. We today are amazed

oftentimes when our attention is called to the fact that a cer
in sixty- or seventy-year-old man is still occupying a position
ence Wee wonder at him as we might at a cripple
playing rugby. In pre-war days we had the same attitude, but
it was toward those who were nearing the century mark. We
no longer see business executives appointing new employees or
promoting present ones on the ground of years. It is a day
which finds merit ranked ahead of age, which prefers ability,
power to work, and intelligent understanding, no matter the age

of the man or the woman.

|. every calling of life.

Youth not only has its chance—but it is in demand in
i ; Youth has already become the dominant
factor of the new age, not inventions or improvements. It is
the keynote which all future historians will sound in analyzing

. and reviewing post-war developments of the twentieth century.

If another war comes, the death knell of the traditional
_kotowing to age and worldly-wise experience will be sounded
with a vicious “bang”. If war does not come, it will doubtless
continue its process of gradual evolution, until it is youth that

| is conceded the management of the world.

iF
abe
7.
5

___ this inescapable fact before our eyes—youuth is upsetting the

a

} i
p

\

a is tay
*

ae

a

a

7

ei ; zs loyalty is the blindest of the noble virtues.
oe . WwW

ae

rs
i
ay
—
ea

a)

Way:

a *

f ree

na
a f

oe ie *.

“te

abe ‘

“7

Youth has grown sick of having its ranks riddled with|

awful gaps as a result of this seemingly undying idea that the
wisdom of the elderly powers that be is directed in an unimpeachable fashion, whether it lead to war, or to economic chaos,

| or to both.

We are admittedly in a state of transition, and there it is

band-wagon of old age. Another decade, perhaps, but no
more than two decades, will see youth on top, one of the most
momentous revolutions in all history, outranking the turn from
oppression to liberty, illiteracy to enlightenment, paganism to
Christianity, or Kings to presidents. It will be the second

ae _ great revolution known to posterity, the first being the emer
gence of man from a state of barbarism into a civilized existence. We are now honoured in that our time is that which
marks the usurpation of the great and renowned position of old
age by youth. D. McL.

LOYALTY

Loyalty, we are told, is one of the noblest of the virtues;

it is a veritable basis for good character.
But is it? -Probably it would be more truthful to say that
For, although
en discussed abstractly, loyalty is so wonderful, its outward
evidences are not as satisfying. Loyalty to a friend means
_ telling him white lies to save his feelings instead of frankly
advising him to change his ways. Loyalty to party means
forgetting past indulgences at public expense and forgiving
present leaders their insincerities. Loyalty to one’s college is
often manifested by cheers and songs or an occasional tendollar bill after graduation—the definition we would give loyalty to college is that it should be shown by continued interest,
which would include financial backing, and enough hard work
to get ahead in the world to bring a measure of glory to the

university. | 
Undoubtedly, the blindest loyalty of all is that to country
—‘“my country right or wrong” seems to be the only test and
God help the disloyal. This loyalty, known as “Patriotism”
in some circles, and as “Nationalism” in others has been blamed

_.__ for the present depression. But it goes on, despite all the writ
,

a Because it is loyalty, and blind.

‘
'

734
as
foe

Sev

. Pie students? Because they,

ai °
an
ra — hs

t
a

bk é

A

7 4
al

=e

own little

+
.
2
‘

_ Ings and speeches against it, till one wonders if modern nations
_ will go the way of the old Greek cities. Why does it go on?
And why this saga to an intelligent group of college
being human, are blindly loyal to
Practically every student has his
philosophy wrapped in cotton and tucked away from
arm in the back of his mind, safe from an inquisitive world
—my dogma, right or wrong.

¥

their thoughts and beliefs.

é
~ *

7
r at
sae |
a is

as oe

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

REGULATIONS GOVERNING
VOTING IN COUNCIL
ELECTIONS

(a) No person shall be allowed to
vote whose name is on the attached
list of Special Students in the hands
of the Presiding Officer.

(b) No student marked, in the
Directory of Students compiled by
the University Office, as registered
in King’s College, shall be permitted
to vote unless their names are on
the University lists as having paid
the Dalhousie Council Fee.

(c) A student may exercise one
vote only and that vote shall be
cast in the Faculty of which he or
she is designated a member in the
Directory of Students.

(d) A student taking an affiliated
course for a degree in the Faculty
of Arts and Science AND a degree
in a Professional Faculty, AND
WHO, during the present year, is
enrolled in said professional faculty
shall vote in that professional faculty only—even though he or she
may, this year, be receiving a degree in the Faculty of Arts and
Science.

(e) Students listed as “Pre-Professional” (e.g. Pre-Medical, PreLaw, etc.,) must vote in the Faculty
of Arts and Science.

Something
To Think About

The moving picture industry has
undergone a new revolution. Constant objections and constructive
criticism has resulted in the birth
of a new type of picture—the
direct antithisis to the typical
American mystery thriller or the
gigantic De Mille production.
“David Copperfield” has everything all these other pictures have
and so much more that one is
safe in saying that this precedent
will be followed to such an extent
that the old type of picture will
pass out of existence as completely as silent pictures have
done.

“David Copperfield” is a masterful book; it has been made into a
masterful picture; words can’t
describe it: one can only do justice to it by seeing it and feeling
it.

It is very nice to learn that
Dalhousie’s hockey team is composed of gentlemen. But it is
rather disheartening and insulting
to the name of Dalhousie as a
school to learn that her football
players are, as in inferential innuendo considered, otherwise. But
to complicate matters more, one
is amazed to learn that some of
those men who play hockey also
played football. There is an inconsistency somewhere; it may be
in the game, the players, or possibly the hockey manager.

The personal effects of the late
Serge Stavisky, once the honored
friend of men high in the government were recently sold at auction in Paris. The French public
paid millions of frances into his
financial schemes, and he provided
the nation with its greatest modern scandal. His effects—some
furniture, two pairs of shoes,
clothing and bric-a-brac—brought
$658.00. Where did all the money
go?

—

André Madurois, that noted
French author, has just completed
another biography of another famous Englishman. This time it is
none other than the literary idol
of more thousands, on two sides
of the Atlantic, than ever before
or since bowed the knee to a man
of letters—Dickens.

The vividness and understanding
for which Maurios is famous have
resulted in a perfect portrait of
Dickens, the man and the artist.
We must not forget, too, that the
version we read is a translation
from the French.

Radio debates are over. Ottawa
has won. To every student who
heard this last radio debate the
decision seems unbelievable. Toronto certainly presented a much
better showing than Ottawa—but
there it is.

Without prejudice, another point
about this last debate should be

Gazette
BOOK REVIEW

“FORGET IF YOU CAN”
(By John Erskine)

John Erskine, well known as a
college professor at Columbia University, but better known as a popular novelist, has turned out another
book, which far surpasses any of
his previous works.

The title is “Forget If You Can”,
and the central proposition of the
story is that a man cannot forgive,
forget or otherwise put out of mind
ahy previous amorous experience his
wife may have had. Women, so
theory has it, are willing to let bygones be bygones, but no man—and
especially no right-minded business
man—can outgrow his rankling jealousy of his wife’s shadowy past
lovers, provided he has once been
allowed to suspect their existence.

Mr. Erskine has assembled an
amusing cast of characters to illustrate his thesis. When the story
opens Lattimer Morton, a_ distinguished New York attorney, is just
on the point of concluding a liaison
with Ruth Romain, a notorious and
rather overripe show girl. To the
horror of his sensible son at Harvard, he had thought of marrying
the woman; but, where argument
failed, a lapse of taste over the
matter of choosing a fur coat convinced the father of his error.

In the necessarily delicate negotiations over the return of the coat,
Lattimer (still the father) met and
fell instantly in love with the proprietress of the shop, and as such
stories go, Marguerite, proud of her
business success and thoroughly disillusioned about love, had decided to
devote her life to her business and
have nothing else to do with men.
Lattimer, in a masterful manner,
changes her mind and insists that
She marry him. Marguerite agrees
on one condition, that he never
question her about her past love affairs, or refer to them in any way.

Lattimer consents readily, but the
restriction proved more irksome
than he had imagined, especially so
as they accidentally encountered on
their honeymoon a charming fellow
who had once been Marguerite’s
lover and who, for that matter, still
might be. Lattimer did not know,
and he certainly had not much of
anything upon which to base his
Suspicions, but he could not get the
question out of his head. His broken
promise, their ensuing quarrel, and
Marguerite’s unexpected return to
New York, create a_ rift which
threatens to become permanent, especially so since Ruth Romain appears on the scene again and attempts to win back Lattimer.

But there is a beautiful side to the
story, too; Lattimer’s son, the college boy, has fallen in love with
Kate Mitchell and is engaged to
marry her. Now Kate is Marguerite’s assistant in the shop, and
naturally is an attractive young
woman of good family and even better sense. Though their romance
encounters a few bumps because of
the conflict of Kate’s loyalty to
Marguerite, and Bob’s loyalty to his
father, everything works out satisfactorily in the end.

Though the story has that standard Utopian ending, and is thoroughly trite, Mr. Erskine’s characters have much more substance and
reality than those in most of his
earlier romances, and though the
book has nothing of lasting value in
it, it does prove fairly amusing.
ee estneeennenennnscnes

noticed. There were five judges;

four of those were from Quebec,
the fifth was a professor of the

University of Toronto. Well, there

you are.

Recent developments and rumors
of trouble in England — dissatisfaction with the Nationalist government and cries for a new system of relief—lead one to infer
that things are not running so
smoothly in England as one would
be led to believe. We can only
Say that Ramsay MacDonald has
done a magnificent job so far and
should the government by any
chance be overthrown affairs in
England will be in a sorry state.

Then there is the Delta Gamma
affair which takes place very soon
now which will give girls, and
boys, too, plenty to think about.

es
SS

sss esses

ST ST :

Salish Fantasy

Far up the west coast of Vancouver Island lies a spot of wild enchanting beauty and mysterious
charm, a spot from which the powerful spirit of the Great Manitou
has never been lifted. Trees, like
troops of soldiers with peaked helmets, dark green and dusky brown,
crowd down the long even slopes to
the sea. Black and smoothly gleaming, huge rocks guard a narrow
crescent of shimmering sand. Sculptured by untiring wind and restless
sea, each stands alone, a quaint grotesque image, holding deep in its

mystery of this lonely spot.
after year, huge breakers shatter
their liquid green into sparkling
showers of spray, while their dull
boom echoes gloomily through deep
caves. Beneath the dark edge of
the forest, half-buried in plushy
moss, the Indian paintbrush lends its
scarlet brilliance to the sombre
scene. Festooning the mouths of
echoing caves, pale maidenhair stirs
softly in the chill, damp air. Even
the salty breeze bears the odor of
moss and ferns, sand and rotting
wood. Over all broods the spirit of
watchfulness, of waiting, of hushed
expectancy.

The sunset fades. Long, shivering fingers of clammy mist creep in
from the sea and wind themselves
around the trembling trees, turned
grey and ghostlike in the gathering
gloom, Like everlasting sentinels,
the gleaming black rocks, swathed
in writhing folds of fog, loom up
through the dark. All is quiet save
the scurryings of tiny night animals
and the unceasing pound and break |
of the waves. |
Suddenly a blood-curdling ery!
rends the sound of rushing water.
Then another, and another. From
the surrounding blackness dim figures steal towards the silvery sand.
Wild and clear rises the chant of
the redmen. Their fires glint and

Year

Springtime one

March and April.

starched collars, at

DAL STUDENTS’

Thursday, February 28, 1935 |

POET’S CORNER

CONSOLATION

“Better to have loved and lost than never

To have loved at all,’—so the saying goes

Of days when men would bring @ rose

Or a trophy from some high endeavour

To their lady. She would give her dower

And heart to him who pleased, and then would be
His faithful mistress through Eternity

While those rejected sought another bower.

To-day he brings an orchid or a car,

A jewel or a penthouse or a yacht,

And sometimes, sad to say, the sucker’s caught
And, well, you know just what divorce courts are.

We say, if we evade Cupid’s fetter:
“Better to have loved and lost—much better!”

Naked, bronze figures dance madly,
throwing flickering shadows on the
sand. Deep and throbbing comes
the note of the Indian drums.
Dance on, poor ghosts of departed
warriors, whose day on earth is over
but whose proud spirit reigns for
ever in this quiet corner of the ,
Westland. Here were held the Salish ‘

‘tribal feasts, here were their war

|
|

heart of stone all the secret and/ened drums.

gleam, mirrored on the silent rocks. |

Shane’s Men’s Shop

30 SPRING GARDEN ROAD

songs
brated.

Dance on, for the night is short,
and with the coming dawn you must
return to Shadowland, leaving your
green woods and sparkling streams
once more to the whiteman. Dance,
dance to the notes of your re-awakMay the Great Manitou never deny such access to your
earthly Paradise!

One by one the glowing fires go
black. The dim ghosts of redmen
disappear. No trace of midnight
revelry remains, no blackened embers, no print of naked feet. All is
quiet save the first sleepy twitter of
awakening birds and the listless
wash of the morning tide. In the
east a thin streak of light gives
warning of approaching dawn. The
sky pales, then blushes rosy-red at
the coming of the sun. A new day

sung, their triumphs cele
is born.

Where

in the Evening?

Why, The Green Lantern, of course, with
its

cosy, attractive

“Canterbury Room”.

You'll like it.

THE |
GREEN LANTERN”

Let’s Talk About The

Our Society Brand early Spring Suits and Topcoats have arrived. New patterns in Scotch
Tweeds, fairly heavy for the cool, crisp days of
Come in and look them over
and see at the same time the new Hats and Shirts.

THE SENSATION SHIRT FOR EARLY SPRING

Shado-Strype by Arrow — You can buy it with
attached collar — English tab or

two separate

|

RATE A DISCOUNT OF 10%

'

:

 
  
 
  
 
   
 
   
    
  
 
 
   
    
 
 
   
 
   
 
    
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
   
 
  
 
  
  
  
   
  
   
  
  
  
   
  
  
 
  
   
 
  
  
    
 
    
 
  
   
 
 

' seers the Offeceers
el of Studes for the
it is no light task

are ie etic the Mhen and
nen who are to be the
of your Bhucks, and it is
to see that they are
| well. Picketh not a Mhan
e he is your Frend, but choos: Mhan who has Abeeleety.
th not a Mhan whose mad
s can sway the Mhob, but
eth a Mhan who has sense.
er itis you who do the keek- the clamouring that the
nsel of Studes does not perits duties; choose the ones who
listen to the clamours befored, so you will not have to keek
or _ ‘The day to do your Jhob will
goon a rive; see-eth that you are on
ne d to east your Bhallot, and to
- it for the Bhest, and Mhay the
ones be your choice.
2. And lo, not to be outdone by
e Denizens of Med, who barely
ee hence become well aded in the Rags of the Ceety,
there is one who calleth himself first
1abbit, then Tie-Gher, and now
> Makkessay, and who manor ruineth the chasers of
of Dal. He believeth in Puby, for first he sayeth that he
ing to carry the warriors of
of Dal into nhew phastures in
on and many other towns, and
tteth his fair snoot een the
s of the Ceety. But soon ’tis all

( » yo U

The Beeg Ceety Mhanager
n sayeth that he is going to take
es Puck-chasers around Truroh, in
e prove of becoming famous, as
keekers of the Peeg-skin did
nany -yhears ago; and again he getth much publeeceety. But soon
s all passed. He remindeth the
s of Dal of the bhoy who crymn But still the Gaz-Jett
Ke nary a word.
The Beeg Mhanager, seeing
| his Phipe Dreems fall into Ob
ae
WO) aA

ers that the Studes of Dal, esially the Keekers of the Peegen , are Jhel-ous of hees sheep.
ayeth that the Gaz-Jett is jhealhis “successful” teem, and
ees why they give him so little
2, and they findeth no roome for
snoot. He further sayeth that
» Studes of Dal have no speeret,
but that he has the bhest Hokey

ne
5 oO]

‘|they winneth nhot. And once again

The Gaz-Jett sayeth nhot'

teem that ever chased a puck, and
it ees the fault of the Studes that

he gets hees publeeceety, and thees
thime more than ever before; for
the Rags of the Ceety theenk he is
a beeg shot.

4. Thees Beeg Ceety Tie-Gher
hath gaineth hees ghole; but his
puck chasers couldn’t fihind there’s.
He gaineth his place een the spotlight, while he maketh the children
of Dal a laughing-stock. His false
ace-u-zashuns hath cast aspersions
upon the fair name of Dal.

5. But to all thees story there ees
a Mhoral, and one which the Leeders
of the Lhand of Dhal can very well
heed: “A horse can be led unto the
whater, but he cannot be made to
Dreenk”. The Studes of Dal knoweth what they desireth, and they
careth nhot for the game of Hokey.
Theye are many studees which
must be done, and manee things
transpireth at the Geem, so what
ees there to draw the Studes into
the Fore-um? There ees nhot e’en
a ghood teem of puckchasers. The
Studes of Dal careth not for the
ghame, and yhet they are. having
there ten bhucks partially spent upon something from wheech they get
no possible gain. The Studes should
get their say, and be able to speak
freely, weethout being called dhumb,
speereetless, and jhel-ous, from one
who theenks he ees all, but who in
realeety ees nought. .

6. But nhow the Bhasket-Ballers
are already awaiting the arrival of
the teem from Akadya, For tho
there arrival is not ’til two weeks
hence, yet there shall be a warm
welkom awaiting them. They turneth out to becometh a teem of clean
Bhasketballers. So clean tthat they
mindeth nhot stepping on the faces
of the warriors of Dal, or they mindeth not keeking Beeg Beel and
Lankey Milt in the sheens; and
despiteth all that they cannot taketh
the ghame from the warriors of Dal.
But the Bhasketballers of the Geem
forgiveth and forgetth (perhaps)
and pashuntly awaiteth the time
when they are to get the chance to
step on two fases for one, or per.|haps pol-ightlee step on the toe of
one Akadyan who calleth himself
Makkloud. Instructions have been
passed out to all the Studes
of Med. ’Tis wheespered they’ll be
whanted. And too ’tis said that the
Children of Dal are already making
their dhates for the ghame, so it
iooks as if every-bhody weel be
there early, and all awate the time
pashuntly. "Tis once the Studes of
Dal weel be pass-e-feests.

 

——————

Ss

 

 

JERSEY MILK CHOCOLATE
FINEST ROASTED FILBERTS

 

P

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

- oe °
, Pine Hill on Parade
RAMBLING The “At Home’ is over once more.
Everyone concedes that Pine Hill
; particularly in decoration and in the
GETTING ODE MONEY'S WORTH show presented in the college buildWhile rambling around the cam-|ing. “College Days” of and in Pine
pus yesterday I met Joe College| Hill of the Past, Present and Future
grumbling as usual about something.|were admirably represented under
“What’s wrong with this college any-| the direction of Earle Gordon. The
way ?” said he, “Here we are paying | various idiosyncrasies of the profesmore money to the Council than we|sors were faithfully portrayed and
did six years ago or so; the number|not too undulyenlarged upon by
of students hasn’t changed much.|John Corston, Allan Beveridge,
Yet we seem to be getting less and|Lloyd Marshall and Bill Briggs.
less for our money. This year seems| Charlie Anderson made a splendid
worse than ever. Every organization|/and venerable professor of the old
on the campus is screaming that} school, emulating the earnestness of
they can’t possibly keep going on|Dr. Alexander Murray, in his advowhat they are getting.” cacy of the “faith” of our fathers.
I reminded Joe that gate receipts| This same Dr. Murray was introducfor rugby were much less than in|ed on several occasions to our ears
1927 for instance. This calmed him | with all the respect due to his fame.
somewhat. And he became quiet as
a sleeping babe when I had him com-; The “Two Orphans”, in the perpare the present hockey deficits with|sons of Innes MacLeod and Fraser
the receipts when the Arena would} Nicholson made one of the hits of
be packed with four or five thousand|the evening. Evidence of their poputo watch Dal and Wanderers bump/larity was given in their heartily
each other about. applauded encore, and in the fact
The reason why the basketball|that many of the residents were
team is not given a complete uni-|lamenting their bereft state for
form, why hockey has been cut into| several days afterwards in the now

badly, and why all grants have been|famous words of the above-mentionreduced, particularly as compared|ed pair; “For we have no Mama or
with half a dozen years ago, is be-| home”.
cause the Council hasn’t got as

much money as it then had. You| A word of appreciation must be
can’t get blood out of a stone. The| given to Don Robb for his scheme of
now is to distribute what money ‘decoration in the Arts and Science
there is to the best advantage. We|room. For cosy corners and darkenmust constantly remind ourselves|ed alcoves, this room was running a
that the D.A.A.C. did not have, as| close second to the famous Med room
had the Princeton University Athle-| which has heretofore claimed precetic Association, a surplus of $24,527 | dence in this direction.

for the fiscal year 1933-34.

NATIONAL SCHOLARSHIPS

 

 

 

The theologue’s room was very
finely decorated in Japanese style

During the week of February 10,)and hung with many lanterns. A
a proposal to create Government|solo sung by Bunjiro Mori later in
Scholarships for promising univer-|the evening was very effective and
sity students was brought forward in| much appreciated in its setting.
the Dominion House of Commons.| Many were the sorrowing and disSuch a foundation would be of inesti- | consolate hearts when the latest posmable value. In the words of the|sible trains had left, for “they have
Hon. Chas Stewart who introduced |left an aching void The world can
the resolution, “in this age of scien-| never fill”.
tific advance in all walks of life, in| Condolences are in order for Fraser
which knowledge is the limiting fac-| Nicholson and Innes MacLeod, who
tor in the progress which can be|as orphans are hard to beat, but
achieved, Canada cannot afford to|even they find difficulty in facing the
lose the tremendous asset it possess- grim reality.
es in latent ability for trained leadership of it brightest young people.”| A number of old Pine Hillers re
If there can ever be too many/turned for a while to forget the
scholarships the limit is not nearly|world’s cares with us. Norman
reached yet. The creation of a!Estey and D. K. MacLeod, two of
liberal number of government schol-| ast year’s graduates came to while
arships which would be allotted in a| away the fleeting hours, but they nacareful, “non - political” manner|turally had more than a mere “At
would be a mighty step towards| Home” to attract them.
realizing that equality of opportun-| Howard Kennedy and Art Long
ity to which we often pay lip service| were also down for the occasion.
but which we rarely attain in| Lloyd Layton could not bear to see
Canada. “Carriere ouverte auxX/an opportunity such as this pass and
talents” would be no longer a totally|he too came to join us once more.
empty phrase. Canada would have} We were all glad to see him
progressed a stage towards the Uto-|again and wish him a speedy recoypia where educational facilities}ery. But not too much night life
would be freely available to those| Lloyd, we want to see you back next
who can and should use them, and, | year.
perhaps, where moneyed morons} One important question that canwould be prevented from cluttering|not go unasked, did Don MacLeod
up class-rooms. see the show on Friday night? If so

CRITICISM how did he manage to get into the

. Med. room so soon afterwards?
The student body have given full

bloom to a new attitude which has|many an organization back on its
long been nourished in their breasts.| feet. A vivid example of this overThat new attitude is by no means a|jobbing a student is seen in the
creditable one and the sooner the|change of the Sodales executive in
irons are in the fire and a conclusion} mid year.

reached the better. Why is there so} Too the literary work of our own
much criticism of all things in gener-| Gazette has fallen to a new low
al at Dal and so little constructive | when such headings as “The Council
work (which if done at all is done| Meets — The Members Shoot Off

 

 

even once again, has excelled itself, |

by a few) acconiplished? Can this|Their Mugs” and such pleasant |
be wholly blamed upon a diversity! poetry as in the last issue appear. |

of interests?
Surely not for the interests of Dal| another recruit?

Has the Halifax Daily Star gained |

SHAPE

AHOY

Eye, eye, sir! If you want to

 

get acquainted with a really
cool and satisfying smoke,
just introduce yourself to
Turret Cigarettes.
certainly approve them.
Turrets have the real class
that commands attention
from the most critical judges
of cigarette satisfaction.

You'll

Quality and Mildness

urret

CIGARETTES

SAVE THE

Dal Cubs Tied For
League Leadership

Playing at the “Y” gym on Saturday last, the Intermediates placed
themselves at the top of the league
by a 29-25 win over Y.M.C.A.

During the first period the Dal
team easily controlled the play and
in spite of the greater size of their
opponents, outscored them 14-4. Going into the second half however the
“Y” squad, led by Lloy and
Archibald, forged ahead to cut down
the lead and outscore Dalhousie 2115. Until the last few minutes it
was anybody’s game, but baskets by
Miller and Simmonds put the collegians ahead to win by four. points.

The win resulted in a four-team
deadlock for leadership of the league
since Dal, Wanderers, Y.M.C.A. and
Tech have each lost two games
apiece. Hopes for the city championship seem brighter for Dal since
probably the winning of the next
three games will do the trick. They
will be played at the Cubs’ gymnasium and it will take a good team to
beat them on their own floor.

Evidently they have gained their
stride and are ready to go places.
To prove that, the other day the
Cub’s took on Dalhousie Seniors in
a regular workout, and believe it or
not took the Maritime Champs over
the hurdles. Making the sturdy defense of Messrs. Musgrave and Anderson look foolish the young ones
scored three close-in shots before the
Seniors could wink an eye. Of course
the Senior squad was a little off but
even so it would look mighty good
tosee Senior and Intermediate Championships at Dalhousie this year.

Dal Cubs: Simon, Stewart, 1;
Sullivan, 3; Murphy, Lyall, Lorway,
8; Green, 2; Simmonds, 6; Dean,
Dubilier, Miller, 8.

HALIFAX TAXI CO.
At sor B.7376

Service
Lowest Rate to Students.

 

 

should be the interests of all—and
yet they are not. Why? Perhaps
one reason is that there are two
many college activities falling due
on the on the same occasions, for example: when a Dal Theatre Night
was planned, that same night other
‘Dalhousie functions were on. Can
not this be remedied to a certain extent (in the case of activities concerning all students) by Council
authorization that is to say when a
function taking in the whole college
is planned the Council can at least
recommend that all other affairs be
cancelled? Another seat of discontent and to our minds the root of all
evil is the system here of allowing
one student hold several offices. We
openly advocate the ‘one man—one
job’ system and declare that this
would strike a death blow to the
popularity contests and would put

Perhaps some students do not understand that Dal is a little world
by itself and that her students are
supposed to be one big happy family.
On perusing the Halifax Mail last
week this does not appear to be so—
for here were Dalhousie troubles
well-known to the majority of Dal
students aired to the Halifax public
—and to what advantage ?

We have put our irons in the fire
and we sincerely hope that the student body will do likewise.

Let us rid ourselves of this destructive creature—criticism—let us
rather remedy what is to be remedied and give our leaders our wholehearted support.

Criticism cannot accomplish anything but hard feelings but the confidence of the students injected in
the hands of the various organizations can work miracles.

 

 

Halifax Transfer
~~ B, 7138

 

 

TOBACCONIST

 

Smokers’ Requisites of Every
Description.

A Complete Stock of
CIGARS, CIGARETTES,

TOBACCO & BRIAR PIPES.

21 Spring Garden Road
Halifax

 

G. A McDonald |||MacLeod, Balcom

sr ‘aiid lil a ta

POKER HANDS

 

Student’s Forum-
Editor, Dalhousie Gazette:

Dear Sir,—The time has come, the
feeling seems to be, when officers of
the ‘various classes and societies,
along with the managers of the various sports, should come to some arrangement whereby the times of
meetings and games do not conflict.

Things in this regard have been.

going from bad to worse for some
time, but during the past week it became a little too much for some
people.

On Saturday at noon the girl’s

basketball team was scheduled to .

battle with Mount Allison. As well,
a@-mass meeting of the Arts pet
Science students, and meetings of
Classes *36 and ’37, all important
ones, were due to take place. The
result was that the basketball game
was well attended, Classes ’36 and
*37 each had about half a dozen
members present, and the mass
meeting didn’t even materialize.
Some fun.

Then on Tuesday the mass meeting and repeat class meetings of the

Juniors and Sophomores came off, at ~

noon. Also at that hour a general

meeting of the D.A.A.C. was taking '

place. The result—confusion.

It is admitted that noon on Tuesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays
seems to be the only time for many
meetings and games—but there will
have to be some changes made before long, or conditions will be even
more wretchedly managed.

Thank You,
T. B. Co-ed.

 

BIRKS.-
Silver toiletware —a gift
of quality and lasting
beauty.

Open stock patterns permit purchasing individual
pieces from a few dollars
upwards.

Henry Birks & Sons

Limited
DIAMOND MERCHANTS
Halifax, N. S.

 

   

Limited

DRUGGIST

Halifax

and Bedford

SS ee

 
