~

:
a - ‘vad é
z een

a

~ marks were made about the refusal !

7

=

‘elected Students’

BP 27
Munro Day Plans, Sodales
Receive Study of Council| |

Official Student Publication

HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA, FEBRUARY 7, 1935

 

Nomination Date Set For Election of New Council.

Assuring the Students’ Council
that the committee of which he is
chairman is determined to equal,
and if possible to surpass, the Munro
Day celebrations of past years, Gordon Thompson at a Council meeting
on Tuesday evening presented skeleton plans for Munro Day similar to
last year.

As proposed, the program will begin early on the afternoon of Wednesday, March 18, with various
sporting activities, to be followed
by a tea dance from 5 until 7 o’clock.
From 7.30 to 8 there will be speeches
and introduction of the newlyCouncil, after
which will be a Glee Club show.
Dancing will follow until 12.30. For
non-Dalhousians the charge will be
seventy-five cents a couple.

During discussion on Munro Day
plans the various dignitaries present
were for the most part inattentive.
Mr. Crease was engaged in a game
of “shadow cribbage”’.

Nominations for the annual elections were ordered to be called by a
week previous to March 5th, when
the elections will be held.

SODALES’ REQUESTS.

On Lawyer McEvoy’s motion, his
motion at the last meeting for a six
months’ hoist of the proposed debate with U. N. B. was revoked, and
‘permission was granted the Sodales
Executive to arrange to have a team
from the New Brunswick institution
come here this spring. Pointed re
at the last Council meeting of the
since retired Sodales president, Mr.
Sutherland, to recommend this debate. The about-face decision of the
students’ governing body was due to
the eloquent pleading of Charles
Manning, Sodales’ new chief executive, and C. Bruce Fergusson, secretary, who brought attention to the
interest revived at Dalhousie in debating as a result of the success on
the radio of Messrs. Richardson and
Pink. They also stressed Dalhousie’s
moral obligation to entertain U.N.B.
in accordance with the schedule of
the Maritime Inter-Collegiate Debating Union drawn up in 1930.

Mr. Crease-expressed the view that
it was not seemly for Dalhousie to
start the break-up of the intercollegiate- circuit. Mr. Fisher began to

- object, but, before he could speak,

Mr. McEvoy nudged him with the
hint that it was not in accordance
with the best procedure to remain
seated, pipe in month. After getting
on his feet, the gentleman aired his
views, which Mr. Fergusson persuaded him to alter. Whereupon Mr.
McEvoy moved the Sodales request
be granted, Mr. Fisher seconded the
motion, which was approved.
N. F. C. U. S. DEBATE

Messrs. George Thompson and
Manning then brought up the subject
of N. F. C. U. S. debates. The first
point was to bring a team here from
Western Ontario, the other to appoint a man to team up next November with a man from U. N. B. to
tour New England. Mr. McEvoy
said the matter was no business of
the present Council. Mr. Thompson
showed that in order that the N. F.
C. U. S. might proceed with arrangements immediate action was necessary. He said a moral obligation
might be handed on to the next council to make it as binding as a legal
one. Here Mr. Saunderson wittingly
remarked that the “morally binding”
was quite sufficient. Mr. Gordon
Thompson moved approval, being
seconded by Miss Atherton. Approval having been given, Mr. Crease
then woke up and asked for a rereading of the motion, remarking to
the Gazette reporter that “Saunderson and I are just naturally stupid”.

The D.A.A.C. president then appealed for a grant of $45 to Mr. D.
W. Bent for expenses incurred recently by an operation on his nose,
which was damaged two years ago
when playing football for Dalhousie.
Mr. Thompson said he understood a
bone in the nose had to be chiselled,
and asked Mr. Teasdale for medical
opinion. The latter gentleman said
he knew “nothing about such matters”. Grant was made on motion of
Mr. Saunderson.

$10 FOR BADMINTON
Mr. Eric Murray, badminton manager, sought a grant of $10 in order

that Dalhousie might secure affilia
tion with the Maritime Badminton
Association, in order that Messrs.
Victor Oland, Allan Findlay and Bill
Douglas might play in the forthcoming Maritime Tourney under Dalhousie colours. Asked what benefit
the Throne read in French. lan
Ross expressed his radical feelings
(Continued on Page Four)

‘Colour and Wit Feature
| Sessions of Parliament

| Red gowns, black velvet caps and silk hats provided colour
for the Dalhousie Mock Parliament at its opening last week.
And after the pageantry was over, Dal’s mighty lawyers de
- cided unanimously if present members at Ottawa do not radi
cally change the British North America Act shortly, they’ll

_ have to move out for those who will—all three parties stressed

_ the necessity of amending the Act to suit a new economic policy.
_ The Mock Parliament is expected to be prorogued next week.

  
    
    
  
   
   
  
         
   
   
   
    
 
  
 
  
  
   


ae

he
7 a .

tei

7

Sie

x
a

s
=!
“ae
J

‘a!

\ ee

.

é —

tee rae

The opening of Parliament Thursday found unexpected enthusiasm

’ among other students as well as
_lawyers—a gallery of fifty eds and

co-eds stayed through most of the
proceedings to see the colour and
laugh at the heckling. Opening
night was devoted to the Speech
from the Throne, which was continued over into the second session
Tuesday afternoon.

Promptly at 7.35, Thursday night,

- the members filed into their seats to

hear Clerk George Curtis read the
letter from Phoebe Ethel Macdonald,
secretary to the Governor-General,
commanding the opening of the ses
sion. The Gentleman Usher of the
. Black Rod, which was firmly grasped
____ by George Crouse, then led mem____ bers, with the gallery at their heels,
+ “whe the sanctum of the Senate,

where Speaker V. C. Macdonald,
robed in red and black, ordered them

Ft if?

ae

back to elect a Speaker. This was
done quickly enough—Ronald M.
Fielding, crown prosecutor, being
elected to the chair—and the members filed once more to the Senate
room, where they were received by
the Governor-General, Sidney Earle
Smith—beaver, striped trousers et al
—and who for once was not received
with cheers. The Speech from the
Throne was then read, the members
filed back to their places and the
fun began,

The Liberals spent the rest of the
evening attacking the Government;
the Independents spent the rest of
the evening attacking both other
parties; and the Conservatives spent
the time defending themselves and
heckling at every chance. Leo Landreville was received with the loudest cheers, and chided the Govern
ment for having the Speech from

(Continued on Page Four)

 
 
 

COMMUNISM IS SUBJECT
OF 8.C.M. LEADER’S TALK

“Communism is the result of basic
trends in Canadian economic life,”
said Beverly L. Oaten, the national
secretary of the S.C.M., before a
group of eighty Dal students Tuesday noon.

Mr. Oaten pointed out that technological unemployment, a stupendous indebtedness, and a three billion dollar interest bill. made minor
reforms seem futile to the dispossessed. He added that in addition to these factors there was a
small, committed, vigorous group of
Communists, members of the Communist party, actively focusing discontent, dramatizing situations, and
making it appear that the Marxian
picture of the class struggle was in
Mr. Oaten held that a like danger
was arising on the extreme right in
the growing group of Fascists, determined to fasten the present evils
permanently upon Canada’s population.

Reverting to personal experiences
in California, where he observed
Communist tactics, the lecturer
spoke of the way Communists won

support by granting relief to the |

  
  

WE NEED ANOTHER

weil, WE CAN’T
TAKE ANY MORE
FROM HERE OR THE
DEAN'S ROSEBUSH

 

at Dalhousie University

No. 15

 

2

—-—

AND HIS MATE

FLAY POLITIES

‘wv TAME

MOCK PARLIAMENT

 
 
  
    
       
  
 
 

 

Ff es enviey — 1595
—S_

Chas. Manning Made |
President of Sodales

Charlie Manning, second year law
student, was elected president of
Sodales at the meeting of the Debating Society last Friday. He had a
majority of two votes over Bruce
Fergusson, present secretary of
Sodales.

It was extemporaneous night at
Sedales and some twenty-five students attended, seventeen taking
their turn to come to the chair for
a subject. The resolution that
“Since the Gazette is useless and
never read, it should be abolished”,
was greeted with louder cheers than
that “Maidens, like moths, are always attracted by the glare”.

At the business meeting following,
indignation was expressed that the
executive had seen fit not to recommend the U. N. B. debate

 

dispossessed through direct action.
He also told of the skilful use of
“united, front” efforts to win a platform, and spread the doctrine of the
inevitability of the class conflict.
In closing, Mr. Oaten maintained
(Continued on Page Four)

 

Meds. President

Replies to Mail

The Halifax Herald and Mail received a summary squelching from
Eldon L. Eagles, President of the Students’ Medical Society, over the
week-end, when he wrote a letter condemning that organ for its method
of informing the public about the fuss being made over Materia Medica

by second-year Meds.

On Saturday the Mail made the subject the story of the day in a

| Liberal Leaders Prepare For Final Session (Ghost Train a Success—

Thrills Large Audience

Glee Club’s Ambitious Venture Wins Enthusiastic
Approval of Spectators Last Evening.

Joe Connolly added another link to his chain of directorial
laurels when he presented “The Ghost Train’ to an appreciative
audience last evening. Much of the credit for the success of
the production should go to Hal Taylor, the energetic president
of the Glee Club, and to Warren Beazley, the ingenious stage
manager. All of the parts were sympathetically interpreted,
but perhaps the most realistic characterization was. that of
Saul Hodgkin, played by George Murphy. Mr. Murphy’s story
of the “Ghost Train” was the highlight of the first act.

—

 

, Ruth Skaling as the mad_ Julia
Dr. Lothar Richter, Professor | Price carried off the honors in Act 2.
of German in Dalhousie -Univer- | Julius Forster held the sustaining
sity, will. wive: the aeeond. in ‘his ea during the whole play, as Teddy
series of lectures on “Develop- | Deacon, the “silly ass” of an Engments in Post-war Germany” on lishman.
Friday evening, February 8th. | It must be remembered here that
This lecture, “Explosions and | the role of Miss Bourne, the old
Adjustments”, will be given in the ;maid, was acted by Margaret Kindle,
Chemistry Theatre, the Science due to the illness of Ruth Wiegand.
Building, at Studley, beginning at | Miss Kindle’s performance was exS15 pin. |ceptional, considering the short time
she has been rehearsing.

 

The lecture is free and open to
the public. All the properties and sound ap+
paratus were constructed by the
back-stage crew, and they should

not be forgotten in the. congratula
FRENCH PLAY DATE __/20t be forgotten in the congratal
IS., ANNOUNCED |. iis. ancooss e-the: daye. samen

Providing further opposition to the | Dalhousie student is urged not. te
Dal Theatre Night, L’Alliance Fran- Miss this truly splendid performance.
caise has announced its long awaited ance when it is offered again ‘this
play will be produced on the same | evening. It is worth seeing. All the
evening, February 11. The play, Les | Play requires is a voluntary suspenDeux -Sourds, will be shown, in|Sion of disbelief in the supernatural
French at the Technical College at|during Miss Skaling’s and Mr. Mur8.00 p.m. No admission will be|Phy’s stories. Then it is thrilling.
charged. It is one of the best presentations

L’Alliance Francaise is composed|im the history of the Glee Club, and
of Halifax citizens and Dal students|Should be discussed in future generinterested in the study of the French|@tions as fervently. and religiously
language. They have been prepar-|2S the now time-hallowed “Valiant”,
ing for the play, most of the parts ——<—<—$$< $<.
of which are taken by students, for| Peru will be given by M. Loriet, folsome time. lowing which’ there will -be mmysical

After the play, a short talk on| entertainment.

Dal Defeats McGill to Win

Place in Semi-Finals

 

 

 

 

Canada can become a nation despite her separate provincial governments was the subject debated on Friday
night in the series of debates conducted by the Canadian
Radio Commission. Messrs. Richardson ‘and Pink again
brought honor to Dalhousie by defeating Messrs. Vineberg
and Black of MeGill.

decidedly questionable manner which raised Mr. Eagles’ temperature considerably and caused him to write a letter to the editor, which the Herald
was good enough to publish Monday morning.

We are reliably informed that Dean Burbidge has already cut down
on the course quite a bit. This step would make it appear that the Meds
were perfectly justified in “bucking at their useless studies”.

DEBATING STOCK SHOWS UPWARD TREND.

A revived interest in debating within the past three weeks
is largely owing to the successful efforts of the Dalhousie team
in the Canadian Radio Commission’s intercollegiate debating
series. For some years debating has languished on this campus
and only a faithful few have shown any interest whatsoever
in it. Perhaps the success of the Radio Team will restore it to
its proper place in the sun. With a proposed debate with an
outside university, and an opportunity to send a Dalhousie
man to tour the colleges of the New England states next fall,
debating under its new president can hardly fail to become once
more one of the major students’ activities at Dalhousie.
Messrs. Richardson and Pink are to be congratulated for
their wins over the Universities of New Brunswick and McGill.
They worked under the difficulty of short time for preparation,
and accordingly sacrificed their studies and other activities. To
them this University owes a real debt of gratitude; through
their efforts Dalhousie has advanced to the semi-finals and has
a good chance at the championship of Canada. Such is the
finest of advertising for the “little College by the sea’”’.
Thanks of the students should also be given to the members of the faculty who gave their aid and counsel to the student, debaters. Professors Johnstone and Bennet have been
particularly helpful, and the interest shown by others, including Professors Mercer, Curtis, Young and Dawson, was a strong

 

factor in giving the team confidence to speak effectively

against the opposing debaters.

McGill had the affirmative and
submitted in a rather weak argument that geological division, conflicting economic interests and racial
division prevented Canada from becoming a nation so long as local interests were handled by local goyernments. The provincial governments stand as a continual barrier
before any central government administration.

Mr. Richardson opened the debate
for the negative. He pointed out
that it is for this very reason that
Canada has these divisions that we
need separate provincial governments. “How can a member from
Halifax exercise intelligent judgment on a question of education in
Manitoba?” This was the basis of
Mr. Richardson’s agrument; it is because Canada has these local differences that she needs these local administrative bodies to deal with
them.

Mr. Black, of McGill supported
his colleague’s argument by pointing
out that we need a strong central
government—that only such a govyernment, unhandicapped by separate
provincial legislation, can deal with

——

 

problems of common concern, such
as the newsprint industry, unemployment insurance, and so forth.
As soon as these questions are
raised in the Dominion parliament a
member protests that such a question is of concern only to separate
provincial governments.

I. C. Pink closed the debate for
Dalhousie. He very ably rebutted
the arguments for the affirmative.
He further pointed out not only that
Canada could become a nation, but
that Canada is a nation, recognized
as such the world over. He dealt
with the British North America Act
and agreed that certain amendments
were necessary, but to suggest that
all power be vested in the central

government was ridiculous and a
ridiculous suggestion.
Mr. Vineberg closed the debate

with a very strong rebuttal, but not
Strong enough to take the victory
from Dalhousie.

Dalhousie is now in the semifinals, and many thanks are due Professors Johnstone and Bennett, as
well as Messrs. Pink and Richardson, for the enviable position Dal
now holds in this. debating series.

/

DON’T MISS THE GHOST TRAIN!

 

“> oo eee See ee Ss
 
    
     

DALHOUSIE

BOOK REVIEW

MASTER SANGUINE
(ivor Brown)

Those people who enjoyed “I Comto the Flames”, will be glad to learn
of this new book by the same author.

Written in somewhat the same
style as the former satire, Master

 

> & Gazette

“The Oldest College Paper in America”

   
   
 
 
 
 
   

 

EDITORIAL STAFF

 

  

  
  

Editors Sanguine embodies a special subject
W. A. REID |barely mentioned among many
B.5827 =| others in “I Commit to the Flames”
Sports Editor —the subject of Child-psychology.
BILL DAVIS |For “Master Sanguine” is, in effect,
B. 4884 a tantalizing and mirth provoking
Mieiialaad satire on that highly idealized sub
; Manager SSIS ject.
eee ie ROWLINGS ARTHUR MEAGHER| However, if one reads deeply
ee B. 4647 B. 2886 enough, there is to be found in “Masai eS ter Sanguine” more than a mere
ae ns ridicule of Child-psychology, for the
} Pes THE MOCK PARLIAMENT story traces the path of Sanguine
2 The decision of this year’s Law classes to resume sessions |ftom the beginning of his existence

f i ebt ck Parliament is something worthy of commendation.
| oe che oy years past, interest in it had lagged until last year
resulted i liament at all.

ee tthe Mock Pai aosht is an institution almost as old as the
ss Law School itself. From it have come many of Canada’s leaders
e —all of whom proudly relate that there they received their
political ambitions. Premier Tilley, of New Brunswick, speak
oo

! : ee
ae to the Law School last year, told several amusing stories 0
i Et the arliament of his days and of one youngster, then known
as “Dick” Bennett, who has since brought fame to Dalhousie.

7 , An Macdonald, Gordon Harrington, C. H.
eenon: . . tin aed many other present and past members
of the non-Mock parliaments have taken their part in Dalhousie’s sessions. It has been a kindergarten of Canadian
a es a historian’s point of view, it would have been
shameful to have let the institution die ; from the present

_ gtudent’s point of view, they would have missed the most practical part of their training, (for have not all lawyers a duty to
rs enter politics?) ; and from Canada’s point of view, if Dalhousie
failed her, who would guide her destiny? Probably the best
___-yeagon why the Mock Parliament should never be allowed to
pass away is that the students want it. Enthusiasm ran high
3 during the past week, not only at the Law School but among
the Arts, Science, Commerce and usually scornful Med students
who kept the gallery occupied throughout the sessions.
ae Gredit for the revival of the parliament must go to Dean
----~ -‘Maedonald, whose advice to keep it modelled after present ac—__ tivities at Ottawa resulted in general brushing up of party
policies, and to Horace Hanson, Roy Lawrence and John Fisher,
a the students who were largely responsible for the reawakening.
_-—s- Rurther thanks for the success of the parliament is owed
aus to the members of the faculty, to Ronald Fielding, crown
| prosecutor, Sidney Smith, President of the University of
= Laaniteba, ‘and to the anonymous gentleman at Ottawa, sus---—— peeted to be the youngster who received his early parliamen_ tary traiaing here and whom Premier Tilley called Dick”, who
gent bound copies of Hansard to provide material for debate.

 

  

 

 

ee

aes: THAT USELESS B. A. AGAIN

7 Sc Arts dePa The great question concerning the value of your

so gree is, “Have you succeeded in gaining your aim?” Though
it may be heresy to say so, yet we answer in the negative. The
e play is not worth the candle. Why? Did you not leave home
Ae with high spirits, great ambitions and an eager desire for

earning? Let us assume so. And will you not return still unat and physically weaker, with a degree which, by itself,
will not give you a position as assistant teacher in a backwoods school? You have staked high and you have lost. Here

>. is the reason:

ry: a When you entered as a Freshman, you bought (we hope)
a. a too-expensive loose-leaf note-book, in which you jotted down
2 ' the lectures you attended. Your own judgment, your critical

wers, your mind (mental processes), your brain, except in
the case “Of mathematics, was rarely appealed to. Now, as a
Senior, you ufind yourself an automaton, so expert at reporting
lectures that you can fill ten pages without being conscious of
a single sentence you have written. These notes are rarely
read, thought of, or referred to until the close of the term,
when the bi-annual cramming exercises begin. In examinations,
_ the memory is the only faculty appealed to, and those with
«poor memories receive the fate of chickens before roasting. If
-——sryou:_ succeed in obtaining your degree, you leave college with
your originality and individuality almost completely lost. |
The Arts work, as a rule, is simply memory gymnastics.
But the present age does not need men who can name the year
and day on which an insignificant Greek battle was fought.
ee: Any encyclopaedia can give us the facts—a brief course in
se Library technique would enable anyone to have the essential
knowledge of most Arts subjects, if not in his memory, then at
i _ his command, leaving the brain free for creative work. What
cf we want today are men of judgment and inventiveness. _
a _. It is an established fact that many of those who just
eS scraped through examinations, but kept their minds uncrippled,
____ have made greater names in the world than those who won
7 bursaries and honors and emerged from the University without
personality—just a poor dictionary. There is an eternity of
difference between knowledge and ability; theory and practise.
| Still, you’ve had many pleasant days and nights in your
four years at Dalhousie, and it will be with a feeling of regret
P that you leave it forever, but regret solely because you had not

Ac?

» ‘
ite,

i, v ¥
Pore fi
eat

fa,

or |,
ieee
cy 2
Fy

'
~
*

a _ devoted more of your time to each other, and less to your
_ books; widened your sympathies instead of cramping your
Interests.

#

ey Turn, then, you new students, before it is too late. Leave
| __ Arts to a past age—unless you intend to enter one of the “proot - fessions”. Even here, Science or Commerce is more helpful.

| —— Leave Arts to the past, look to the new, to Science, to Com- —s merce; to Journalism, to Aviation, to Music. The world needs
trained men. (This is not an advt. for the I. C.S.) We are
___ living in an age of revolution, not candid evolution. Television
| -_-_—_—_will need thousands of men in a few years; even greater dis| -——s« eoveries await you in the field of Science, and it will give us the
_ __ greatest pleasure to write about them. If you go on as you are,
_ When you graduate you will find that while you have been
| stumbling over Latin phrases, the earth has advanced with tre_ mendous velocity, and that it will take you another four years
to get back to the living, th.>ing world again.

»

7

5

ee
ees
>

 

 
  
 

 

to the height of his fame. Had the
story continued, the author might

have produced something approach
ing another Anthony Adverse, however far that course of procedure
might have been from his mind; but
unfortunately (or fortunately, if you
will) the author apparently became
weary at the sight of the long road
ahead, so he chooses a convenient
place and stops. Not, however, before he has produced a story well
worth reading, if only for its wit.

If you have ever doubted the wisdom of some of the teachings of
Child-psychology, or if you have
been but vaguely aware of its importance,—even if you have never
heard of it, by all means read
“Master Sanguine. You won’t learn
anything new about the subject, but
it is excellent humour — its subject
matter cannot be taken too seriously. If the author was planning to
present a serious satire on the subject of Child-psychology, then he has
perfectly defeated his own ends. We
like to think that such was not his
intention. So when you read “Master
Sanguine” be prepared to enjoy its
wit, and revel in its nonsense, and
not like the hero himself, to believe
everything you are told.

MEDICINE STUDENTS
EXPLAIN MEETING

On Friday evening last the Munro
Room was the scene of one of the
most enjoyable meetings in the history of the Student Medical Society.
The event was momentous, for on
that occasion the staff were present
at the invitation of the students,
and it was hoped by this means to introduce discussion of mutual benefit.

Four four years Dean Grant has
given his warm support to the idea,
and to him must go the credit for its
eventual achievement. We would
like to thank him for the way in
which he co-operated with the officers of the society to ensure a large
attendance on the part of the
faculty.

The students were urged to make
suggestions, arising out of their experience, which would help to ensure
the maximum of benefit from the
various courses.

Opening the meeting and welcoming the faculty, Mr. Eagles then
asked President Stanley to say a
few words, after which he threw the
meeting open for discussion from
the floor. Many and varied were
the suggestions received and we feel
that every man who spoke did so
with the conviction that it was his
duty to express an honest opinion
and not “let down” the sponsors of
the occasion.

If some of the speakers at times
overstepped the bounds of propriety,
considering the faculty were present
as guests, it is certain that in the
intensity of the moment they were
led into statements which, framed
in a slightly different way or spoken |
in a slightly different tone, would
not have been fraught with such
profound implications. We cannot
criticize their motive; it could only
be the furtherance of the aim of
Dalhousie to graduate doctors, second to none in quality in Canada.
Rather must we attribute it to lack |
of oratorical training which characterizes most medical men.

During the evening refreshments |

 

 

 

were served, and at 11 p.m. the|
meeting adjourned. Everyone felt
that. it was just this spirit of co-op- |
eration and and friendly discussion |
which, reviewed in memory, “twenty |
and thirty and forty years on”,
would do much to promote in the.
hearts of the Alumni and Alumnae |
of this School, a warmth of feeling |
for their Alma Mater which would
inevitably be translated into an ac
 

 

GAZETTE

RAMBLING

“The Moving Finger writes, and
having writ, Moves on.”
—Omar Khayyam.

 

THIS DAY AND AGE OR
“SWEET ADELINE”

Perhaps one of the most widely
discussed topics of conversation in
reference to university life is that
of drinking. The collegian is made
“the butt of many a joke and cartoon (not carton) in this respect.
There is no doubt but that college
men and women do indulge in drinking in a mild form today, and there
is no disgrace to hide that fact. The
pertinent question now is not one of
not drinking but one of drinking in
moderation. To the Utopian, who
might surmise a perfect world,
drinking might not have its place,
but it has had its place from time
immemorial. It is a hopeless task
to put an end to it altogether, but
it is indeed part and parcel of an
education to be tolerant in all things
—even as regards drinking.

To those who shudder and are
horrified at such thoughts we advise
a small dose of liberal-mindedness
on the subject. If the student is going to have a drink now and then
he is going to have it regardless of
university dictum.

By drinking is not meant just
sitting down ’midst bottles and
bottles with the sole purpose of
getting drunk. This is the extreme
which should in some at present inconceivable way be cured—and this,
too, is the way in which the large
majority of people who are not fully
cognizant of the situation regard
the affair.

Some of the world’s most famous
universities train their athletes on
beer, and why not? It is not injurious but to the contrary beneficial to
their health. Why is it that people
do persist in bringing to the fore the
most absurd and really fantastic attitudes pertaining to the question at
hand? True, some very sordid situations occur as the direct result of
drinking parties, but isn’t it right
here that someone—perhaps the university itself—has slipped? The
parties to the affair have either
missed or not been taught the real
meaning of tolerance.

Perhaps our old-fashioned friend
may suggest that all this may be so,
but just look around. Wine, women
and dancing seem to form a combine, and it is here wherein the fault
lies. How can the young college
boy and girl be taught tolerance in
this respect? If we could answer
this problem we would be far, far
away from here now—however, we
leave that to the heads of the universities to solve. Everyone can
help to some degree by taking a
broader and saner outlook on the
situation, for this old world of ours
is far from perfect. Moderation is
the keynote to better and more sober
days.

CAUTION DEPOSITS

We have often wondered what is
done with the confiscated part of our
caution deposits. (We don’t mean
the caution deposits signed over to
their class by the graduates of last
year.) A few inquiries elicited some
information. It seems that a goodly
share is apportioned for twigs and
branches broken on shrubs on the
campus; some is deducted for damages from short-cuts across the
lawns; and some $25.00 is taken to
pay for student use of the gymnasium phone! The university authorities are probably quite justified in
making this charge under the present circumstances,

But it should not be paid through
caution deposits. Either telephone
service should be provided by the
university in the same way as lavatories and drinking-fountains are

|supplied, or the cost should be paid
\by the Students’ Council.

The best
solution would doubtless be the installation by the Council of a pay
station telephone. Then if the
basketball manager wishes to make
fifty calls per day he will either dig
into his own pocket or budget for
such calls. At present it merely
means that basketball gets fully ten
cents or so per day more from the
students than would appear from a
glance at the Council accounts. A
pay telephone installed by the Council, while it would inconvenience
some gymnasium grafters, would
permit a more just state of affairs.

tive interest in and furtherance of
the work of this University for
those who follow where today we
tread.

i a

February 7, 1935

POET’S CORNER

THE CONQUEROR.

The star caught in that silken mesh of cloud
Is like your spirit fettered in my heart:
The soul that held itself aloof, apart
From all the world and haughtily unbowed
Until I saw you there and fiercely vowed
Your wildest limbs to tame to serve my will,
And stormed your barriers of caste until
You knelt with burning head, no longer proud.

 

 

What cared I for your name, your noble birth?

I scarred you with my passion’s searing fire,
Triumphant, dragged you by your captive hair—

Thou fool!

Thy cloud is bound eternally to Earth,

And inaccessibly beyond desire
Thy captured star still gleams unfettered there!

 

 

LOUSE OR BUTTERFLY

We are familiar with the delicate
and charming poetry of the Scottish
poet, Robert Burns, and we have all
enjoyed the subtle irony and humor
found in his vernacular poems.

‘To a Louse’ is a fine example of
Burn’s humorous trait.

 

produced by the severe contrast of
a lowly louse on the finest silk and
lace hat of a lady who is unaware
of the impropriety, leads Burns to
say:
“O wad some Power the giftie
gie us
To see ourselves as ithers see
us!”

It is obvious that Burns intended
this passage to apply to ourselves
whether we be at church with both
silk hat and louse, at the office, on
the street, in the home, in the classroom or at sports. Wherever the
place, whatever the situation, beware
the louse on your hat! The white lie,
the stupid alibi, the sneer or the act
of selfishness are merely little lice on
the silk and lace hat of our egotism,
while

“The winks an’ finger-ends, I
dread,
Are notice takin!

On the other hand, leaving aside
the humorous point of our unnoticed
lice, what is the nature of the insect
that lies behind the act of kindness
which is never appreciated? There
is the gentle word of encouragement
given to the one who has failed, but
who, ruled by jealousy and defeat,
shuns and hates the helping one as
a meddler. There is the natural
blunderer who tries to do his share
in smoothing out the twists of his
fellows’ path, but who succeeds only
in losing himself in its windings.
Again, there is the unselfish one
who gives his last mite to the needy,
and consequently does without a silk
hat, placing himself open to the ridicule of his fellows.

; Sought I long,

All these—the unseen meanings
behind the deeds—known only to the
one who has tried to spread the bit
of sunshine about his fellows’ head,
only to have it lost in the shadow of
unappreciation. This meaning that
has sprung and grown from sunshine

| —not a louse, but a butterfly, living

gloriously and enjoyed for a worried

The almost! day, only to die in the dawn of hapabsurd and yet pathetic situation, pier times,

and slowly sink into the
loneliness of forgetfulness. Well we
might say:
“O wad they were the giftie gi’en
To see us as we would be seen!”

DISCOVERY

I’'d sought for you in little hidden
places,

In dusky dreams of scenes remote
from men,

And hoped upon some windless night
to find you

With all sweet rain-washed flowers
banked behind you,

Far from all familiar things and
faces—

 

despairingly — and
then—

Not far from out another world you
grew,

Nor wild, imperious, with the goblet
high,

No madding, stirring voice, exotic
name,

Elusive charm or parted lips aflame,

One brief, heart-burning hour to
love, then die,

Tho’ souls should live through memories we knew—

Not this! But quietly throughout the
years

Of my long seeking you grew in my
life.

And in each tossing storm and stress

and strife

You stood beside me, sharing all my
tears.

And, fool I was, I never saw—but yet
you knew

That when my love should come, it
would be only you.

 

Shane’s

Annual

February Shirt Sale

Your chance to lay in a stock of good quality

_ Shirts at a great saving

 

ARROW — FORSYTHE — TOOKE — LEWIS

All the best makes with full sized bodies and perfect
fitting collars. These shirts come in collar attached

and separate collar styles—regular value to $2.50.

Sale Price $] 39 3 for $ 4.00

COME EARLY BEFORE THEY ARE PICKED OVER

Shane’s Men's Shop

30 SPRING GARDEN ROAD

 

 

 

 
  

billi
 
   
  
  
   
   
    
 

cee was one of the
es of the playing so far, the
tants so named being the chief
‘icipators, although each obtained
e Sather doubtful assistance from
stators and commentators on the

a no as a person that MacVicar,
that although they had begun playae ing at seven o’clock on Saturday
“i e _ Svening, and were playing for one
_ hundred points, that the table would
es as usual be closed at twelve in due
_ observance of the Sabbath, and that
_ consequently if they did not move
ee they would be forced to draw
re _ stumps and wait for more favourable
_ weather, at the very least until MonSey, thus making a two day’s match
of it

7

. ’ 7 Se Mgrs tee or
ry - er ee ie ee oe ee ’ x
ie eae ay a 2 Mo.  k we} re. rey A
eet SSP es, fe |
ee ST oa fens
an bh = a aT) = 7
: ea | ach ees oe em a
i r Pg mT a ae he
. es te t
es mys f
BR a a og! PS: : 2
ae ar Lae > =
rer 2 i os a
| f ‘ pt i ; /
a ae 7 es Se fae 5 ; E
ae £4 i
. —
a
i BA —_—
mt aS, es, ;
4 a Pe d ? Gi
. a tiliivia. .
H | a
hee A
: a
‘ a
—
a th io TY
u P
mw a
. ‘St
zs.
\ : %
ri ;
J
- _—
i
—as
i
'
ie
}
:
sg
1
sr a
?
~ | .
rs
tak ©
‘a
ii a
2
-[
atl ws
fi
i.
ee
—
be
a ~
; =|
ye SS 3
ie
é i Je.
(fame bin!
=. .
t . 7
'g i S
rs
~ .
Fe:
all
i f
- :
ae “
4 a
us
re

hal
Re
i
aay:

j rH
i i

naam
cw

#.

 

AaB One of the old residents, Howe
Jones was visiting for a few days

-_ Jast week in the Residence, and en_____ joyed renewing old friendships.

 

yee ® be
a 4,

We hear that “Pat” Patton got into difficulties in the lab. this week.

_ It seems that he was maliciously and
—s against his will detained and com_____pelled to go whither he desired not
It must be hard lines to be so handsome that they just won’t leave you
alone. Better luck next time, Pat!

 

Don MacLeod was recently overheard in the observation that he
“likes them big”. To whom or to

_ what this may refer might leave us
_ sadly guessing were we not so sure
of Don’s celibate tendencies.

 

Even Paynter cannot escape the
_ scourge. He was one of several who
- spent rather a long week-end far
from these haunts of peace and quiet
and contemplative study.

ar,
Medical Notes

For the first time in many years,
faculty and students joined in a
friendly meeting last Friday night

in order to discuss the course, with
_ @ view to improvement. The get
together was an unqualified success,
and the refreshments certainly
helped.

 

 

DO YOU KNOW THAT—

1
ge
x
he os
5
f
Cy wia
: :
ras
te :
nd
=

. _ Wilmur is going to be a Medical
vi Missionary ?
es Medicine is leading the Interfac-_-ulty Basketball League?
E _ Mrs. Asby is receiving serious
«competition from Ruth and Del?
Ry

Five medical students are mar_ ried?

 

Psychiatry is the latest worry of
| the fourth year students. The final
_--~—s e@xamination will be held on Feb. 16.
_ his is the second final for them in
aS many weeks, causing many locks
: to be torn out by the roots, and
_ some have none to spare!

| GAUVIN
‘ GENTZEL

= 4
»

ae any ee

a

Photographers to

DALHOUSIE
UNIVERSITY

   
      
    
    
   
     

 

Special Rates to

s TUDENTS
24 Hour Finishing
Service

See Our Pictorial
Work for Gifts

| 18 Spring Gardren Rd
_ Phone B. 6992

a
; ee — Sti a "

I a lon Parade

nnn UEEEEEEEEEeeeenl

 

NE ee eT OS, meen

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

THE FOURTH BOOK! POETRY REVIEW

OF BUNK

CHAPTER 15

1. And now it has come to pass
that the mighty Denizens of Med
sore unto themselves because the
Gaz gives them very leetle Pub-leeseety, made a mighty bid for Fame.
They held Rev-o-lush-on-haree Meetings at which they put unto scorn
their inseegneefecant Profs. and
waxed El-oh-Quent that there Studees were much too hard. They kryd
and kryd until there syghs were
heard by the Rags of the Beeg City,
and there krys were put into HedLhines. The Meds had got there long
sought Pub-lees-eety. But ’twas not
enuf for them. They then feigned
Ang-her. So then their Pres Eagels
Eyes wrote unto the Ceety Rags and
denied all. He spouteth that the
Meds had not turned Reds—but they
turneth yellow. The Rags sayeth
that they were sorrie but they were
not to blame, for it was in the GazJett that they readeth the Nhews;
they accuze the Gaz of Lies.

2. But lo it was not the GazJet that telleth not the Truth. The
Gaz. with its nobel Editors reporteth
Naught but what is true. The Nobel Meds to shield themselves, as
brave Mhen do, careth naught upon
whom the blam is laid so long as
they free the Mhinds of their Profs
—and cleareth their Paths of Plucks.
The Mheds will not care rather than
bear the brunt of the Mightee Ax.

3. It will be remembered by all
the Frosh that in the Distant Past,
long before the Xmas Xms, King
Karl’s men kryeth from thee Pulpeet, that all Frosh shall bend each
day and touch their toz ten times,
and Steerleing, he who bosseth the
Geem was to be the leetle child that
leadeth. But lo, the Frosh are green
no more. They have tired beinding
long before now, and at this date
many who readeth of the rebellyus
Meds, refuseth. Fooleesh Frosh who
disobeyeth the Kommand of the Supreme Beeng! ‘Tis remoured that
they were halled lightly o’er the Kols
and now when they cannot sit they
bend.

4. The Pullers of Teeth and Makers of Breedges are a quiet Tribe,
and seldom doth the Kronicler of
Bune veeset their Relms. But a
Moral may bee found in many of
there Lessons. It was not too many
daze past when one of there Tribesmen, deeskovered that Kuriosity almost keeled the Kat. His learned
Prof was speeking and the Stude
was deeligently leestening. . . then
the stude foundeth in hees Bhench a
Whole into which hees Feenger
glided easily. But lo, though the
Feenger—the long slender Feenger
went into the Whole easily, the
Stude foundeth much to his Deesmay
that it would not return. Despite
the Trap, the Stude leestened to the
Lektur.. He thot it would ne’er kom
to an Ende. When it deed and when
all hees Mates rose to leave, Veektor
followed not. He kud move not.
Hees Krys for ade were heard by
hees Mates who ruseth to help heem.
But the Teeth Hallers, as always,
kud do naught. They kalleth all
from the mightee Kugel to the lettle
Feegman; all runneth with sope and
whater—but the Feenger bugeth not
an eench. Even the Meds kome upon the scene, for they smelleth Flesh
and they awaiteth there chance to
Kut. But ’twas for the Noble Mak
to save the day. He kometh not with
sope and whater (he looks after the
Lande of Forrest, so he is wize in
the waze of the Whorld); he karried
weeth heem a cheezler and a sawe
and cutteth not the Feenger as the
Mheds wud do, but he saweth the
Bhench and saveth the Bhone. ’Twas
Mak-Klowd’s day of Veektor-ee.

5. And now it has kum to pass
that at last the Glee Kloob has prepareth for the Studes the long awaied Goest Trane. To-nite weel be the
day. All have awated pashuntly.
Wee weesh the Aktors all the luk—
and the Kronicler of Bune will bee!
there to report unto the Studes a.
True Akkount of all that transpires,
unless he transpireth first.

 

 

Halifax Transfer
47138

 

Having received several poems
from Mr. Percy B. S. Shilly, the
Laureate of Squeedunk, and having
been requested to review and criticize the same, I now remove my
coat and shoes, don the old smoking

"| jacket and go to work.

Mr. Shilly’s first poem begin with
an invitation to the world to read
his modest work. I quote the opening verse :—

“Come saints and sinners — sinners
mostly—
All who dwell upon the earth;
Come all ye everlasting grinners,
Read the poems I’ve given birth.”

The Reviewer hesitates to criticize
sharply, yet this is decidedly unpromising. It would suit the public
taste much better if the last two
words of the first line had been
omitted. The element of truth, unknown in poetry, is calculated to influence an adverse reception.

Again, it would have been better
to have said, “Buy my book” rather
than “Read the poems” in the last
line. Poetical works, when fashionably bound, are considered as nice
ornaments; they are seldom read.

Mr, Shilly’s next poem is entitled,
“Lines to a Critic’. The Reviewer
has nothing to say about personal
things.

Then comes one of the most
charming sonnets it has been the
Reviewer’s privilege to read. We
quote in full:—

TIMIDITY

If all the pens that ever poets held
Should merge with mine so that I
could reveal
The song that fills my heart—
But this ordeal
Would make you wish my death-bell
had been knelled
The day before your flashing eyes
beheld
My quite enraptured stare:
So ethereal
You seemed—lI felt my fervid blood
congeal
For fear the lovely vision be dispelled:
This image from my dreams, this
ghost, unreal—
But no! You smiled! A flood of rapture welled
In my loud-thumping heart—
But I’ve withheld
Expression of my passion empyreal
For fear that some day from your
home I’d reel
By your enraged father’s foot propelled.

This is apparently the expression
of a heart-searing passion experienced in the callow years of the
poet’s calf-love days. Such tender
feeling, yet what delightful restraint
of sentiment! Mr. Shilly is still unmarried. This may interest the two
feminine readers of this column.

And now for a few words of advice. Should there be a demand for
an edition of your work—this depends on the proposed bindings advertised—it is suggested that you
arrange the order of your poems so
that as many as possible are placed
in dark corners where their privacy
will not be intruded upon, and above
all, do not cut the leaves. You will
thus escape criticism.

A man once wrote,

“So long it seems to pause on
thy bald awful head.”

I forget the author’s name and the
circumstances under which he wrote,
but I believe he referred to a fly on
a patriarchal noddle. Remember
that age should be respected. Do
not follow such bad examples.

Do not rise at 11.30 a.m. and be
gin an address to some tall mountain,

“Rise mighty mount in grandeur
rise!”

The mount rose long before you
did, and moreover, most mountains
are high enough for all practical
purposes.

Again, if you must address mountains, it is better to use familiar
language, language that has been

‘used before and will be used again.

You might begin:—

“Hast thou a charm to stay
the morning star?”

If it does not answer this civil
question, give up the conversation

 

Something
To Think About

 

Canadian Radio Commission. Last
year Dalhousie was defeated by
McGill in a similar series of debates.

 

Do you know that in the past two
years the Red Army has almost
doubled in size? They now have an
army of 940,000; Japan has an army
of 225,000. Not only has the Russian army increased in size but army
supplies have been raised accordingly. Meanwhile Japan appears to
have taken a material interest in
China desiring to remodel her army,
withdraw her from the League of
Nations, and to tie China to Japan
by a loan for railroad construction
and other purposes. It would appear
that China might become a vast supply warehouse for the Japanese in
case of war between Japan and
Russia.

 

George M. Wrong, well-known historian has just completed a new
“history book’, “Canada and America’s Revolution”. Most students are
acquainted with at least one of Mr.
Wrong’s books, the one that has been
on the high school curriculum at
least in Nova Scotia for the past few
years. The book attempts to give an
insight of the influence which the
American War of Independence has
had on Canadian History.

 

Here’s one for the radio debaters.
Secretary Dern of the U. S. A. War
Department. “From the experience
of this nation, as well as others, the
War Department is forced to the
conclusion that in the event of war
the major portion of our war supplies must be produced by private
industry. It might prove suicidal to
try to depend on government-owned
plants alone.”

 

Ireland is the latest convert to the
New Deal dogma. In many respects
the new policies to be pursued by de
Valera are much akin to the Roosevelt policies in the United States.
The State will set up codes of industry and regulate not only the hours
and conditions of employment but
also the ages and types of workers
to be utilized in certain industries.

 

Rejection of the World Court by
the United States Senate may not
prove such a victory as Americans
now suppose. Two people played an
important part in preventing the U.
S. A. from submitting to the jurisdiction of an international court, the
Rev. Chas. E. Coughlin and Senator
Huey Long. Whether or not their

work is to be praised remains to be
seen,

 

“Within the Gates” has been so
successful on the New York stage
that it has been booked for a return
engagement.

OBSERVER

We hear that the Medical students
are eagerly anticipating another delightful social evening as the guests
of the Faculty.

 

 

This is a standard Geology 1 story.
At the end of Field-work hike, Prof.
Douglas beamed at his class and
said:

“Well now, shall we take this road
back?”

To which A. C. wearily replied,

“We might as well, we’ve most of
it anyway.”

Was that gneiss, Alex?

 

“Observer” learns Dr. Dafoe, of
quintuplet fame, claims relationship
with Dapper Jack Oldfield and Lou
Morrison.

 

and go and gossip with the donkeys
in the valley. Blood is thicker than
water, and you will be happy.

Above all, dear Mr. Shilly, do not
tamper with a mountain while it is
smoking, or you will exclaim fervently,

“I wonder what I was begun for
If I am so soon to be done for?”

Next week we will review Mr.

Shilly’s “Rosalyn” and “To a Chicken”.

———
—

Dalhousie students brought honor
to their Alma Mater on Friday night
by defeating McGill in the series of
radio debates being conducted by the

 

WATCH YOUR STEP !

TURRE?

Tu

 

    

‘Shirreff Hall Notes

A lengthy sick-list is the principal
topic of the day at the Hall.

Del Wallace is in the V. G. Hospital for observation. She has been
laid up for several days.

 

Fran Drummie will soon be back
from the Halifax Infirmary where
she is recovering after the removal
of her tonsils.

 

Charlotte Crosby is in the Infirmary with a very bad cold.

 

Fran Howe, sick for some time,
went home last week.

 

Helen Belyea has a bad cold.

 

Jean Lindsay is reported much
better but is still confined to her
room,

 

Edith
week as did Ruth Crandall.

 

Dibby Ballen was home for the
week-end,

 

Jamie Hopkirk was also home for
the week-end.

Co-eds Pick Team
To Debate U.N. B.

Grace McIntyre, leader, Marjorie
Mitton, and Nancy Thorne were the
three women students chosen at recently-held trials to represent Dalhousie in a debate at the University
of New Brunswick this month.
Judges were Mrs. Wilson Smith,
Prof. Curtis, and Prof. Dawson. The
subject of the debate will be ‘“Resolved that the Tudor Period was
more beneficial to the world than
the Modern Age”.

Five co-eds turned out for the
trials, making excellent speeches, the
judges said. Amelia Levine and
Marjorie Mitton supported the af
 

BIRKS.-
For those who seek a
Valentine tribute, Birks’
stock abounds in suggestions.

Henry Birks & Sons

Limited
DIAMOND MERCHANTS

Halifax, N. S.

 

Nelson arrived back last

 

Ask out loud for Turrets
and see that you get
Turrets—the satisfying
cigarette that never
leaves the spotlight of
public favour.
agree that Turrets are
an encore turn.

You’ll

Quality and Mildness

rret

CIGARETTES
SAVE THE POKER HANDS

Imperial Tobacco Company of Canada, Limited.

 

| firmative, emphasizing the great

contributions which that period had
made to literature and culture, as
well as the adventurous spirit of the
age.

Nancy Thorne, Grace McIntyre
and Bernice Herzenburg laid stress
upon the great advances in science,
medicine and industry in the Modern
Age and the improved status which
women have achieved.

Student’s Special

SUITS or TOPCOATS
perfectly dry cleaned
and pressed

$1.25

Sponged and Pressed, 45c.
Called for and delivered.

Telephone Lorne 2323.

oe 9 @ &
Cousins’ Limited
Dry Cleaners - Dyers - Tailors
“None better—anywhere”

       
       
     
        

Where
in the Evening?

Why, The Green Lantern, of course, with
its cosy, attractive

“Canterbury Room”,

You'll like it.

THE
GREEN LANTERN

 

HALIFAX TAXI CO.
At xour B.7376

Service
Lowest Rate to Students.

 

“Let the Laundry do it”
81-85 West St. Garrick St.

Halifax Steam Laundry
Limited
Tel. L. 2300, L. 2309, L. 1618
Established 1877.

MacLeod, Balcom

Limited

DRUGGIST

Halifax and Bedford

oe ae gO ice

 
     
    
   
       
    

| fe Play Tech Team
F tidy Night at Forum

The Dalhousie hockey team swings into action again on

Friday night when they take on the Nova Scotia “Tech” outfit

in a return match. The Tech boys will be out to avenge the
defeat handed them by the Tigers in the opening game of the
season, but the Tigers, smarting under the licking by St.
Mary’s, have been practising hard and feel confident of winning

the Friday night engagement.

Coach Jack Buckley has made}
several changes in the line-up. Russ
Bryant, one of last year’s stars,
along with Doug Bent and Graham,
will form Dal’s second line, while
the fast-travelling combination of
Cohn, Stanfield and Mullane will
start the game.

Cappy Cooke, one of the mainstays of the team for the past several years, has been forced to retire,
by pressure of studies.

It will be interesting to note the
result of shifting Bent from the defence to the forward line. Doug,
always a hard checker, has shown
an inclination to carry the puck and
he will have an opportunity to show
what a good defence man can do
when shifted up front.

It is not known whether or not
Johnny Godwin will be on the line
up for the next game. A _ nice

 

LAW TRIMS FRESHMEN TEAM

Playing the entire game with only
five men, the Law hockey team
pulled the iron man stunt by beating the Frosh, 2 to 1, in a regularly
scheduled game. For unknown reasons, five members of the Law team
failed to put in an appearance, and
as a result they were forced to take
the ice one man short and had no
substitutes.

Law played a strictly defensive
game, sending only one or two men
up the ice at a time, and capitalized
on the breaks.

Shortly after the game got under
way Hal Connor, ex-senior team
man, was right through, only to lose
a rolling puck. Hinchey opened the
scoring for Law; __ stick-handling
through the entire team, he pulled
the goal-tender to one side before
slapping the puck into the open net.

skater, Godwin showed a scoring!The Frosh came back strong and a

punch by tallying for Dal in their
opening game, and it would be going
back to old Dalhousie methods if he

_ were to be kept on the bench be
cause of another player’s past reputation.

Pat Patton, who showed up quite
well in the Saint’s game, will line up
with Jim Crosby and hard-bumping
Johnny Carroll, on the Dal defence.

Capt. Vic Kyte will again be between the posts, and can be depended on to do his part in winning an
_ other victory for Dal.

At present Manager Tiger Mackasey is negotiating for several exhibition games, to fill up open date
in the league schedule. It is quite
possible a game will be arranged
with St. Joseph’s College of New
Brunswick. St. Joseph’s have an exceptionally strong line-up with such
stars as Duke Campbell, former
Moncton Hawk player, and Hugh
O’Leary, who starred with the Saint
John Beavers, forming a steadying
influeunce for the less experienced
players. A game with one of the
Sydney Commercial League teams is
also under consideration, the possibility being that the “Telephone”
team, which has at present a number of ex-Dal players, including
Kenzie McNeil and Hughie Martin,
will see fit to have the Tigers visit
Sydney.

 

minute later Patton beat McLellan
on a hard shot.

Just before the period ended Henley gave Hinchey a perfect pass in
front of the Frosh net, but Mike
overskated the puck.

In the second period Frosh forced
the play, but their best efforts were
turned aside by a strong Law defence. Half way through the period
Ross broke clear for Law; forced
into the corner, he passed to Henley,
who made no mistake and once more
the red light flicked behind Carlos,
the Frosh goalie. This ended the
scoring for the game, for while the
Frosh put on steam, the heavy ice
prevented fast play and Law were
able to hold them for the remainder
of the period.

Law — Goal, McLellan; defence,
Connor, Ross; forwards, Hinchey and
Henley.

Frosh—Goal, Carlos; defence, Lipton, Plumber; forwards, McMahon,
Paton, Renouf,

 

INTERFACULTY HOCKEY
SCHEDULE

Feb. 5—Law vs. Freshmen.

Feb. 7—Medicine vs. Eng. & Dent.

Feb. 12—Law vs. Commerce.

Feb. 14—Meds vs. Arts & Science.

Feb. 19—Freshmen vs. Commerce.

Feb. 21—Arts & Science ys. Eng. &
Dentistry.

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

SPORT REVIEW

The Tigers will finally get underway in the City Basketball
League on Saturday when they meet the Y. M. C. A. hoopsters
at the “Y.” Most of the team are recovering frm injuries more
or less serious, and in addition they will be without the services
of Mit Musgrave, star running-guard, who will be attending a
fraternity convention in Montreal. However, it is thought that
Sam Fairstein will stick with the team for this game, and perhaps Chuck Lorway, star centre of the Cubs, will also see
action. Oscar Serlin is recovering from his knee injury and is
expected to be in condition for the game.

The Cubs, by virtue of their victory over the Halifax
Academy, are now leading the league, something unique for a
Dalhousie Intermediate team. They meet Wanderers, to whom
they lost their first game by a single point, on Friday at the
Studley Gym. The same week-end will see also some crucial
matches in this league, but the Cubs are favoured to retain
their leadership.

Interfaculty Basketball is producing some keen competition. From looking over the matches to date the Med team is
a strong favorite to take the title. In fact, this team, composed for the most part of old Senior and Intermediate players,
would be a strong Intermediate team.

The Ping Pong Tournament is nearing the final rounds
and many exciting matches are in prospect. Gilbert Lehv, Med
student, is favored to win the championship, but much competition is expected from Leo Green and Don Bauld.

What the well-dressed man will wear may be a fad nowadays, but we think that the limit was reached when three
prominent members of the Dalhousie Cubs turned up for a

February 7, 1935

 

   
  

     
  

FLIRTATION
WALK
with

DICK POWELL
RUBY KEELER

CASINO

Wednesday, Thurs., Friday

“EVENSONG”
with
EVELYN LAYE

    
  
 

   
  
   
  
  

    
  
  

Starting Friday

Remember Monday is Dal Night

        
     
   

Coming Soon
GEORGE ARLISS
in
“THE IRON DUKE”

 

Mt. A. vs. Dal Tigers-And
Big Dance Friday, Feb. 15

The highly-rated Mt. Allison basketballers will play a return game with Dalhousie at the Studley Gym Friday the 15th.
Definite plans are completed for a big dance immediately following the meeting of the old rivals. Arrangements are on
foot to have Jerry Naugler and his popular orchestra perform
to make it a truly successful students’ night at Studley.

TIGERS vs. Y. M. C. A.

 

The game should prove to be all
that one could wish for, with the

league game at the Y. M. C.

A. Saturday night in tuxedos.

This, however, did not seem to affect their playing ability.

Interfaculty League

ARTS & SCIENCE, 8; LAW, 5.
The Studley players took another

victory to keep them well up in the |
‘boys from Pine Hill.

League standing by a close victory
over a hard-fighting Law team. It
was a seven-inning rally for three
runs that earned Arts and Science

the victory. Two each at the end of | Close guarding was

the first, the winners added three |
more in the second. By the close
of the fifth inning Law had tied the
score at five all. The sixth went
scoreless, then came the fatal
seventh for the Lawyers, when they
could not offset the three-run lead
gained by Arts and Science.

Arts and Science—E. Stewart, 1b;
B. Fergusson, ¢c; H. Gaum, p; K.
Kranz, p; A. Mackles, ss; W. Horowitz, 2b; R. Homans,:lf; N. Preiss,
R. Dickie, rf.

Law—A. Thurlow, lf; J. Godwin,
1b; D. Ross, p; F. Bentley, c; M.

Hinchey, 3b; D.- Harvey, 2b; G.
Thompson,ss; B. MacGillivray, cf;
R. Batt, rf.

MEDS DEFEAT COM.-ENG.

Medicine came up a notch in the
League Standing ladder by a 27—13
win over Commerce. Changing their
line-up from their last game, Meds
found it easier going with Carl
Stoddard in the box and Bob Maclellan behind the plate. Lou Petrie,
fresh from a _ victory over Frosh,
found the Meds a much stronger outfit. Each team was playing only
seven players.

Meds—R. Macelellan, c.;
dard, p.; I. Epstein, 1b.;
stein, 2b.; K. Garten, s.s
Cr -s Sey Sonate. et.

Coma: -Eng.—T. Crease, c.; L
Petrie,*p.; D. Bauld, 1b.; W. Sutherland, 2b.; J. Proctor, s.s.; M. Lawrence, 3b.; R. Harrison, lf. 3b.; R. Harrison, Lf.

|MUNRO DAY PLANS—

(Continued from Page One)

C. StodS. Fairoy Harris,

Dalhousie would derive from the $10
Mr. Murray ‘informed the council

birds”. Mr. McEvoy moved approval
Mr. Crease seconding.

SMOKING IN THE GYM

The much talked-about question of
smoking in the Gymnasium was
brought up when the president informed the council of the receipt of
a letter from the Senate Gymnasium
Committee seeking a fine of ten dollars from the Glee Club, as five
members of it were seen smoking on
the stage. As no names were given
in the communication the matter was
deferred until the names were given
by the Committee.

On the whole the meeting was conducted in a seemly fashion, although
the President found it necessary to
eall for silence from the two lady
members. Mr. Gordon Thompson
was slightly out of order when he!
formally apologized to the meeting
for using the courtesy titles of “Mr.”
and “Miss” before the names of his
fellow councillors. He also requestjed Mr. McEvoy to apply a “little

nn ni ii eee OO

‘| Goodwin, 4; T. Crease

 

 

 

DENTISTS, 23; THEOLOGY, 16.

The Dentists continue as _ highliners for a play-off position by adding a third win, this time over the
A seven point
lead in the first period proved the

winner, as both teams broke even

with six apiece in the second half.
noticable by
‘both teams in the final half. Theology players were nearly all in the
scoring column, while Paul Goldman
with 9 and Tokesh and Lipschitz had

/6 apiece for Dentistry. The winners

now have three victories and one
loss to their credit.

Dentistry—P. Goldman, 9; B. Lipschitz, ; J. T. Tokesh, 6; L. Miller,
T. Rogers, 2; L. Simon, W. Scott.

Theology—G. MacKenzie, S. MacDonald, 5; D. McLeod, 4; Gordon, 2;
L. Mitchell, G. Thompson, 3; D.
Robb, H. Watts, 2.

 

 

WIN OVER FROSH

 

COMM.-ENG.

Commerce-Engineers climbed out
of a cellar position in the League by
a win over the lowly Freshmen,
34—28. As the score indicates, it
was no easy vistory. The first period
gave the winners a seven point lead,
the score ending 17—10. Putting on
more opposition, the Frosh held
them to even scoring in the second,
coming out with a point margin.
Don Saunderson again turned in a
highly creditable game at forward
for Comm.-Eng. and placed himself
well up in individual scoring for
the League with 17 points alone to
his credit. Winters for the Frosh
had 18 to his name, outscoring Doug
Lyall, his big-scoring team-mate.

Comm.-Eng.—M. Lawrence, 3; B.
, t; Low Petrie, 3; Don Saunderson, 17; Len
Kitz.

Frosh—V. Koretsky, 1; ,Winters
13; M. Fiedelbaum, M. Lipton, 2;
Goldberg, S. Vair, D. Lyall, 9; M.

 

reason” to a matter under discussion

that free literature would be receiv-| When the latter asked a question.
ed from the M.B.A. “telling all about | Mr. McEvoy objected. Messrs. Crease

and Saunderson for the most part
were very well-behaved, indulging
in the occasional pleasantry.

Several times references were
made to the story carried by the
Gazette two weeks ago on the last
council meeting. Several stated that
the “first they knew” about several
things was when they read_ the
Gazette. In view of this apparent
success, the staff has decided to celebrate shortly.

COMMUNISM IS
SUBJECT—

(Continued from Page 1)

 

that only persons who were integrated about a religious conviction
would be effective in social reconstruction, and made a plea that students seek economic intelligence
among their fellow students.

Mr. Oaten was also the special
speaker at the supper meeting of the
S. C. M., held at the Green Lantern
on Monday night.

outstanding teams of the Maritimes
performing. Dal made a successful
start to the season with a 24—18
victory over Mt. A. at the New
Brunswick College. The Sackville
boys are, however, counting on wiping out the defeat.

To defray the expenses of the
visitors and the orchestra a nominal
fee of 25c per student is to be asked,
with 35¢c for non-college people.

Badminton Gains
In Popularity

Badminton at Dalhousie
acquiring the aspect of a major
sport. The spread of popularity in
the game during the past three
years has been phenomenal and
every day a large number of the
students get the required relaxation
from their studies by engaging in:a
few friendly sets of badminton.

It may be said that the- game is
flourishing at Dal despite, rather
than because of the interest shown
by those in charge, since. it . can

is fast

hardly be denied that the clamour, |

raised last season, that mixed
matched. in the wide-open spaces of
the gymnasium should be duly chaperoned, and that participants of the
game were to be dressed in formal
flannels, was somewhat of a setback
to interest in the game itself. The
game is only now overcoming the
impression created at that time that
badminton was-a joke, only to be
played by “little men” and children
who had not reached-an age of understanding or wisdom.

The game is one of the few in
which the co-ed has.an equal opportunity with the male student. of upholding the glory of the college,
since in the sports of which the
girls have their own teams, they
usually hold a place which is only
of a secondary interest to the men’s
senior team. A strange fact is that
the. girls have not: lived up. to
woman’s past record of beating man
at his own game when given an even
break, and the sport phrase, “weak
sisters’, could be aptly used in discussing the Dalhousie team’s showing in the City. League.

At present the girls’ tournament
is being held at the Gym, and the
interest the co-eds are displaying
assures “Spec” Murray, the manager
of the Badminton team that if there
has been any dormant material
around he will have a chance to look
it over, with a view toward improving his team, before the inter-collegiate matches take place.

EE IEEE EEEEEEEEEEEEEEEE
st i

 

ROM THE

WINNERS *°oM tt

For 60 years the REACH Trade
Mark on Sporting Goods has
been a mark of perfection. No
matter what your favorite sport
may be we can supply you with
equipment that will help you
play the game with the best
that’s in you.

CRAGG BROS. CO,

Limited.

Hardware & Sporting Goods.
HALIFAX, N. S.

  

    
 
       
        
      
   
   

|

 

 

Our own Dalhousie Tigers, Maritime Senior Basketball Champions, it
is announced by Manager Bob Maclellan, will play their first City
League game on Saturday night at
the Halifax “Y” Gym. It is rumored that the “Y” team, which lost out
to their Wanderers in their opening
game, have made some changes in
their line-up which may cause Dal
trouble. The College team will be
without the services of tall Milt
Musgrave in the opening game, as
he is to be in Montreal over the
week-end.

Coaches Stirling and Jim McDonald have released a probable line-up
which looks most formidable: Forwards—Doug Crease, Don. Bauld,
Ted Crease, Ernie Richardson; centres—Bill Gladstone, Chuck Larway;
Guards—Charlie Anderson and Oscar Serlin.

COLOR AND WIT—
(Continued from Page 1)

and claimed for his Independent

party the right to be the official Op
position as the largest party on the

left side of the house. Ted Byrne

 

‘and Mae Leonard spoke as loudly

as possible, out of order, whenever
they disagreed with anyone’s opinions, which was whenever the speaker was a Liberal or Government
supporter; and always John Fisher,
opera hat on the back of his head,
in keeping with traditional ceremony, sparred with Roy Lawrence
in embarrassing speakers. The only
bill presented during the first night
was one to provide four o’clock tea
for students.

The second session on Tuesday afternoon was not as well attended,
but all parties showed more fight.
Contentions soon arose over the bills
and resolutions submitted, and
Spec’ Murray’s question, “Is the
Government studying any proposals
for a more humane method of killing
lobsters?” remained unanswered by
Hal Connor, Minister of Fisheries.
A Royal Commission under Chief
Justice Sir. John McEvoy was ap
|Pointed to investigate into charges

that the Liberals had subsidized a
cartoon in the Dalhousie Gazette,
which was referred to im the charges
as “that despicable rag”.

The second. session-was adjourned
after the Budget had been laid before the House by the Minister of
Finance, John Fisher. It featured
an allotment of $50,000 to study the
question of what the Lunenburg
fishermen do when they are not
fishing.

The date for the final meeting has
not been settled, but is’ expected to
be set for some day next week,

 

 

FRASER BROS.
TAXI

25c. Rate

On all Student call.
B-6070

 


 
