 

\

 

*
rt

ee

*

‘. :

Bs 1
5 SS" 5097
VOL. LXV.

_ Freshmen Glee Club Show
Is Favorably Received

Bill Stevens, big freshman, nervously stepped up to the
front of the stage at Friday night’s Glee Club to steal the show.

very good attempt indeed seems to
‘be the opinion of all, including that
-of the freshmen.

-directed by George Murphy took up
‘the first part of the program.

a cas
7 =) } My Head.”

Ruth Wiegand, who very creditably
‘took the part of a managing mamma.

‘portraying Lancelot, the misunder
‘twenty.

His tenor voice, breaking at first from obvious stage fright,
captured the audience and brought him fully as much applause

as was given Fran Gardner when she made her first appearance
Meanwhile, congratulations go to Hal Taylor in finding
him and for his first show.

here.

That the Freshman show was a

The one-act faree “Rendezvous”,

The play itself was flimsy stuff,
but the clever acting of the Freshmen put it over very well.

Particularly worthy of notice was

Len Goldberg was outstanding in

stood son, in the throes of puppy
love, whose family simply couldn’t
realize that he was grown up at

Others members of the cast were
Betty Carten, Audrey Balcom, Elwyn Hughes, David McLellan and
Fred Barton.

The play was followed by a colorfuly gypsy dance very gracefully
done by Margot McManus, It has
‘been suggested, however, that the
‘gypsy costumes be turned inside out
at the next Glee Club Show since
we have all seen them a great many

‘pee e

  
 

“Laura MacNeill, in top hat and
cane, sang “My Hat’s on the Side of

Bill Stevens, who has a really good
voice, sang two very sentimental
songs. We should like to see this
young man have a chance at something better soon.

Then came a toe dance by Lou
Morrison, with colored lights shining effectively on a most attractive

- e¢ostume.

A very mixed chorus sang “Kentucky Babe’’ well indeed, considering
the awkwardness of their number.

In the way of variety a reading
by Evelyn Embree was most heartily received by the audience.

Darrel Purtill, as a very senti
mental gentleman — from Georgia, |

and John Mullane, dressed as a very
coy lady, sang and danced their way
through “Pardon My Southern Accent.”

The freshmen seemed determined
to end their performance with
bang. This was accompanied by a
full chorus, singing “Ten Yards to
Go”, with Phil Sargeant, Ronald
Heisler, Walter Murphy and Corky
Koretsky as cheer leaders.

Sigma Theta Pi
Becomes International

On November first and second, the

_ members of the local sorority Sigma

4%

Theta Pi were installed into the in
ternational fraternity Pi Beta Phi.
This fraternity, which is the first
national fraternity for college women, was started in 1867 at Monmouth College in Illinois. It has
now eighty chapter, of which’ four
are in Canada—one in Manitoba,
two in Ontario, and one in Nova
Scotia.

Charters were granted at the convention held in June at Yellowstone

_ Park to a sorority in Western Col
lege, London, Ontario and to Sigma

Theta Pi, Dalhousie University.
The officers who initiated the

group were Miss Amy Onken, Grand

_ President, Mrs. Cassady, Province
President, Mrs. Scott. Province Vice_ President, Miss Elizabeth Armstrong
r from Toronto University,

Miss
Margaret Asnip from Maine, and
Miss Dorothy Hey from Boston.

party leadership.

 

|niversary this week. Records show

  

Something
To Think About

The people of 47 of the American
States, the one exception being
Maine go to the polls this Tuesday
in a nation-wide election. The five
regular parties in the running are
Republican, Democrat, Socialist, Law
Preservation and Communist, each
with a full set of State candidates.

Stephen Zweeg, the author of
“Marie Antoinette” has just finished
“Erasmus of Rotterdam”, The book
gives a fine description of the Remissance, and shoud prove interesting to the general reader, but particularly so to students of English.

Close inspection reveals that Mr.
Stevens has put Mr. Bennett ‘‘on the
spot.” But it is not yet certain
whether he has made himself an
Ishmael or a serious rival for the

Radio City celebrates its first an
that more than 750,000 visitors from
all parts of the world have visited
this radio scropolis during its first.
year.

The will of the late Judge Crowe
reveals what a sincere patron and
true friend Dalhousie has lost in the
death of one of her sons. ‘There is
no doubt that this man will long be
remembered in the annals of this
school, not only for his worldly contributions, but for the personal interest and time which he unselfishly
gave for her benefit.

Little Boy Blue may have been
“fast asleep”, but he was probably
faster awake.

Medical Society Notes

 

The medical Society had a rare

privilege in having Dr. T. C. Routley
address its meeting in the Munro
Room on November 5th. Seldom
have the members heard a more inspiring presentation of a practical
set of ideals for the Medical student
and Practitioner.

His elaboration upon Sir William
Osler’s “ten points” gives the Medical student a working philosophy.
Among his closing remarks was an
admonition that mightw ell be passed on to those who were not fortunate enough to hear him—‘Never let
your ideals become attainable.”

Following the address by Dr.
Routley a short business meeting
was held. Carl Stoddard was elected as manager of Medicine’s Softball
Team. It was also decided at this
meeting that the Medical Society
would hold its formal dance before
Christmas; probable date being Nov.|

28th. More will be forthcoming con- |.

cerning the dance, but it is not too
early to remind the members of the
Society that the Dance must have
the support of every member.
Medicine has won two football
games by default. One last Saturday against the Arts and Science
team, the other on the following
Monday, Nov. 15th against the Engineers—Commerce team. This is

 

   
     
 
   
  
 

 

 

HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA, NOVEMBER 8, 1934

ARMISTICE DAY

This is the Day that marks release
Unto a world torn with the strife;

That ushered in the glorious peace,
The larger and the nobler life;

That marks the dawn of a new plan,
The end of error and of hate—
When man shall keep with brother man

The law of love inviolate.

May memory of those who died
Rest heavily on us today;
Good-will and love be multiplied
Till all shall know and own their sway.
Let every battle-flag be furled,
And men unlearn the art to fight,
While every patriot in the world
Becomes a true cosmopolite.

May barriers of creed and race,

Blind passion’s rule, and pride of birth

3

Now yield their long-established place,
And reason guide the sons of earth.
Till by the mighty power of thought
From out a savage, trammeled past
A better order shall be wrought—
A future free and rich and vast.

This is the Day that marks release

From those long
That ushered in the

years of weary strife;
glorious Peace,

The newer and the nobler life.

 

Dalhousie Mourns

Dalhousie’s Union Jack has been

flying at half mast a good deal of the

time for the past six months—struck
down by Death which has been deal
ing heavy blows at people connected

with the university.

At least four men, well known
throughout Nova Scotia and the
Maritimes and intimately connected
with Dalhousie have passed away,
three of them since beginning of the
college year.

The latest loss to the University
was that of I. C. Stewart, member
of the board of governors. As editor of the Maritime Merchant, Mr.
Stewart was extremely well known
and influential in Eastern Canada.
During his life, he did much towards
the betterment of the City of Halifax and Dalhousie always received
a great deal of attention from him.

Judge Walter Crowe of the County
Court of Cape Breton, a graduate of
the law school, died last week, but
he will long be remembered by students of his alma mater. His generous bequest of books to the law
library in addition to hundreds of
books of general interest which he
also left to the college will be well
thumbed before’ long by his successors at this university.

The death of, Dr. Wilson Smith,

head of the Education departmen’
here, came as a heavy loss. to his
students last wetk and his cheerful
countenance will be missed on the
campus by all students.

And back in July when students
were in the midst of vacation frivolities, still another loss was noted.
That was the death of Dr. Donald
Sutherland McIntosh, retired head
of the Geological Department. He
died at the age of 73 after teach
ing at Dalhousie from 1902 until |

three years ago. A native of Cape
Breton, he revealed a rare vein cf
Scottish sentiment upon his death,
To his native province he left a strip
of land in the North of Cape Breton and showing the great love of <
highlander for the heather country
he asked that there should be erected

on that land a building similar in|
‘decidedly unsatisfactory turn of af-|‘esign to the “lone -sheiling”

made

fairs. Is it not odd, that the people|f@meous in Scottish literature.

who were doing the most “talking” Premier Angus L.

Macdonald of

Anarchy in Sophmores

Amid threatening sounds of an
archy, class 37 met. in Room 8, Arts|
Building, Tuesday. Originally meant

to be a meeting, it turned into one
of those informal discussions which
go so hard on tempers and fists almost flew acouple of times.

When President Gordon Thompson
entered and took his place of honor,
some of the Political Science students decided they wanted to impeach the beaming class-head and
started a small movement to down
the president, which, however, didn’t
get very far.

Discussions of a class party started a bigger row than that. What
to do—an informal dance, a baby
party, a hard times affair, masquerade, etc., and what not? For threequarters of an hour, nothing could
be arranged until some sort of a
compromise was reached. Definite
details of the dance have not yet
been arranged.

Other parts of the session such as
the secretary’s minutes and the
| reasurer’s report passed off O. K.

Political Debate
| Set For Nov. 15

| Party polities will bé the theme of
'discussion at the next meeting of
Sodales in the Munro Room, a week
from this Thursday, at 8 p.m. It
will be lawyer’s night, as the Liberals, championed by Roy Laurence,
known around the Law School as
| Lord Laurence of Margaree and
| Fraser Bentley will uphold the reso‘lution “that this house deplores the
policies of the Bennett Government.”
|The Conservatives who will take the
|negative are Horace Hanson and
Bill Davis.

The debate, as announced before,
will be run under parliamentary
‘tules and any student will be given
the opportunity to express himself
after the main speakers have threshed out the subject. The original plan
of having outside speakers join with
Dal students has been postponed for
‘the present.
prea
of deep affection for the two Scotlands, the Old and the New.
| While at Dalhousie, Dr. McIntosh

 

concerning the proper functioning of Nova Scotia was deeply moved by’ was known and beloved by his stuInterfaculty sport could not even put the gift.

iy team upon the field for their inter-!

faculty games.

“It is.an appealing and a magnificent gesture,” he said, “expressive

 

dents as a quiet instructor interest
ed entirely in his home, his books |

| and his works.
;

 

 

at Dalhousie University

 

No. 6

 

Ten Dalhousians Attending
Model League of Nations

 

F. K. Stewart

Receives Award

Awarded this year’s I. O. D. E.
scholarship, Mr. F. K. Stewart, ’34
graduate with honours in Philosophy, is receiving congratulations
from his friends at Dalhousie

Coming here in 1932, Mr. Stewart
won the George H. Campbell entrance scholarship and for the next
two years held the North British
Society Bursary. During the time
he spent here, Mr. Stewart was
known as one of the cleverest students on the campus and current
oponion today is that the award
was well won. At present, he is
principal of the Sherbrooke High
School. é

Not confining all his time to
studies, Mr. Stewart was a former
Literary Editor and columnist on
the Gazette. His Caricatures, with
Reverence for None, skits on the
professors, caused many a chuckle
amongst the students and professors
alike.

Amongst his other accomplishments, Mr. Stewart was one of Dalhousies’ leading socialites, his fraternity pin being the secret ambition of every girl at Shirreff Hall.

 

Dr. H, H. Stevens and |

His Commentators

I have read with much interest
and not without some enlightment
the comment re Hon. H. H. Stevens
in the last issue of the Gazette, but
find that I cannot agree with the
writer in certain statements. He
says that “Honest Harry’s” action
places him in a “minority of one”
in the Cabinet. I question the correctness of this.

“Speaking legally Mr. Stevens was
wrong,” says the writer, whom I
take to be one of those “Law men”.
If our friend knows the law as well
as he appears to know Hansard perhaps he could supply us with the
sub-section and section which shows
Mr. Stevens to be wrong. He probably thought better of his own words
when later he apparently apologizes
by saying, “There are certain traditions and principles that muste be
adhered to.”

Traditions and principles are not
laws, and the breaking of traditions
and principles have been of cardinal
importance ever since man first
began to make some progress. I don’t
think any Canadian law condemns
the ex-commissioner’s procedure.
Clarence Darrow knew his “stuff”
when he said the trouble with the
law is lawyers.

Another statement to which I take
exception is the one regarding “personal desires for popularity and
publicity”. Clearly the author of
such an insinuation does not know
Dr. Stevens personally and even if
he did I doubt if he could speak with
any degree of knowledge of the gentleman’s desires.

I recommend my friend’s admitting that Stevens was motivated by
his own enthusiasm to do the right
thing. Our “Father of Technical
School Education” is a man who has
always been motivated by enthusiasm to do the right thing for the

working classes, regardless of the
cost to himself, and as he is still a/

young man it is to be hoped that
“before many moons” he will occupy a more important position in
our government than he has in the
past. Bennett is undoubtedly doomed politically, and Mr. Kine gave hic
party’s chances a bad blow by pick
 

Representing some of the most
important countries of the world,
more than 10 Dalhousie students
were in Wolfville today attending
the preliminary session of the Model
Assembly of the League of Nations
of 1984 at Acadia, Friday and Saturday.

Arguments, pro and con, of some
of the most startling world problems
of today will be set forth by
“representatives” of the various
countries in true Geneva style. Including Acadia and Dalhousie, the
colleges sending representatives include Kings, Mount Allison and University of New Brunswick.

Such topics as the re-entry of
Germany into the league, the request of the Soviet Union for
admission, the withdrawal of Canada
from the League, Party politics, the
failure to achieve a European settlement, German agression will all
be supported and opposed by certain
countries and followed by a general
discussion by all members.

Special talks, a banquet, entertainment and other details have been arranged by Acadia officials. While
there the delegates will have an opportunity of hearing a recital by
Signor Szigeti in Acadia’s University
Hall.

At 8 o’clock tonight, there will be
a public meeting and address by Mr.

T. W. L. MacDermot, Secretary of

the League of Nations Society of
Canada. The official opening takes
place early Friday Morning and the
session lasts until Saturday Noon
when the closing of the Assembly
takes place,

Dalhousie’s committee in charge of
arrangements here includes Bruce
Ferguson, Chairman; Phillis Burns,
and Wilfred Burchell,

 

 

Glee Club

The Glee Club executive announces its plans forth e remainder of
the college year. The next presentation, which will take the form of two
or three one act plays in competition
for the dramatic shield, is scheduled
for the last week in November. This
will be the final Glee Club Nite before Christmas.

The New eYar will be opened for
Glee Club around the middle of
January with the most ambitious
production for some time, the mystery drama “The Ghost Train”.
This play is known to most of the
students having been used by both
Stage and screen artists in Halifax
within the last few years. The production of this three act play presents many problems both for actor
and stage mechanic, and any students interested in any department
of the work are requested to make
themselves known as soon as possible. The first meeting for the selection of the east and stage crew will
be held in the Munro Room in the
Forrest Building on Friday, November 9th, at 7.30 p.m.

Following “The Ghost Train”,
there will be two productions before
the end of the year. The first of
these has not yet been definitely decided upon but the second will take
the form of a musical show of some
description to be presented on
Munro Day.

The Glee Club is endeavouring to
present its program to the students
early in the year so that as many
as possible may find their way clear
to help in any and every manner
they can. Those in -office feel that
they are doing everything possible
to make fhis year a Glee Club suc
.cess; the final decision rests with

ing faults in Mr. Steven’s program. | the students themselves.

 
    
   
 
 
     
  

wa y

  
         
       
         
       
        
      
     
          
     
       
 
     
    
    
   
       
      

     

“ ‘
on LE
C7 aK

‘ a Pie Tae ae ete ts “The Movi Finger writes, and
d 1869. “The Oldest College Serial ~ Peal edamaaa
<i a” coat ied bh 4 1 ¥ 3 ’ ,

‘Paper in America”
5 ne : —Omar Khayyam.

 

/ EDITORIAL STAFF
DITOR! | GOWNS

: ee 8 Editors: Again that hardy annual, the

H. SUTHERLAND | UF. ee question of gowns for students,

Ps 'B. 5833 as ° raises its weary head. Many chaps,

a “4 News Editor inspired by the ideal of shady cloist
ae ee ARTHUR MERKEL ers and quadrangles, across which

Pee | Pe B. 5108 fiit mantled figures, permanently

bat eek eS a i support the idea. Let’s examine the

uiterary Editor ee ee sag sya proposal and settle the question once

AL REID B. 4884 and for all, if we can. If the sug
. B. 5827 UE : , , gestion merits approval, let’s don

ATF od Business Manager Assistant the collegiate robes; if not, banish
©. D, WALLACE ROWLINGS ARTHUR MEAGHER |the idea.

 
 

Gowns would inform the freshman
that he has arrived at an institution
where the student supposedly casts
aside the frivolities of childhood, and
that here dignity and high seriousness reign. An ever more convincing argument is that of utility. All
male students (we cannot speak for
the female) know that agonizing
feeling experienced when one arises
after an hour’s lecture on a warm
day from one of the Arts Building’s
varnished benches. One hears a terrifying ripping sound as if parts of
his flannels were suddenly in absentia. Gowns would remove this peril.
Another point—Dalhousie is probably one of the best-dressed colleges
in America; too much emphasis is
put on proper attire. Gowns might
bring about a desirable modification
of this custom and would even the
way of many a student who finds it
too expensive to be a fashion-plate.
Surely if these points in favour of
gowns are not outweighed by those
against should we not press for their
adoption ?

Any extra expense in buying
gowns is surely made up by saving
in clothes. The foolishness and inconvenience of carrying gowns on
city streets is pointed out. Why
couldn’t a sort of gown-checking
room in some convenient place such
as the Arts Building basement in
= a Te o charge of somebody paid by a small

out. of th _COULSE, |ievy on each gown-holder be estabyaar Qeoeen was not lished, and this objection be thus.
hb : ‘ bode als Sndd Me!) bi ty j

~~

_---s CANADIAN UNIVERSITY STUDENT PRESS

ss Recently, the editor of the Varsity, undergraduate paper of
‘the University of Toronto, was asked to resign because, in the
opinion of the Students’ Administrative Council, he had gone
-——-— gutside college life in his editorials — he had entered Ontario
a polities and denounced convincingly the open-bar method of
-__—- gelling beer. The editorial, which cleverly pointed out some
evils of the system, was merely the opinion of a thinking
student, one who looked under the surface. Yet because he ex____- pressed it publically, he was dismissed. It is little wonder that
las is staff threatened to resign with him if any other editor is
appointed to his place.

The situation at Toronto is analagous to that at McGill two
‘s ago where the editor of the Daily was discharged after
me, ting a truthful story of student’s becoming tipsy while in_—s- specting a local brewery. At that time, student officials felt
the story should have been suppressed. . ;

_ —s«STt is a queerly working mind that thus censors a University
A r ae paper. A university and its students is really a little world in
’ ye

  

   

 

  

   
 

  

        
   

     
    

  

  

         
    
    
         
     
           
     
    
       
     
    
    

w.
’ itself—it should be far enough from the rest of the world that
it may see and judge freely, without hampering connections,
__--—s*University students, one woulld think, would be citizens who
watch carefully the world moving before them, thinking and
_ forming opinions about it. Why then, should not a university
% student be allowed to print his opinion on any topic and to circu‘ Tate it to his fellows? ;
_ If his opinion be false, the paper is open to receive denials.
_ "here is no better way to solve any problem than that of free
discussion. In England, where the universities seem endlessly
) graduate men whose opinions are startling and revealing, it
sustomary that the student’s journals be free to discuss any
utter. It is known, for instance, that Mr. Churchill once
ue fo. the editor of Isis, an undergraduate

 

    

  

 

   

  

     
  
 
 

    
 
    
 
  

  

suit, of
surmounted?

Surely then, taking all points into
consideration, we must agree that
the adoption of gowns would be
definitely beneficial. Let’s wake the
Student’s Council from its usual

lethargy and do something about it.

  
    

    
  
   

 

i fr a ke irk on 7 i # a Be aa

eed to be freed from the belief

1 only to record debates and Glee Club shows

scU ) questions except year books, college spirit and

Probably, if they were thus freed, there would also

a complement to wider discussion, the chuckle that
m wisecrack, but from wit.

      
     
      
 
      
     
  
       
    
      
    
         
     
     
 

   
  

  

   
 

 

 

 

COLLEGE PROFESSORS

Turning to a dictionary we find
the word “professor” defined as “fone
who professes, or publicly teaches,
any branch of learning.” Just what
is the function of these maligned
personages in the life of a student.
There is no doubt but that when a
youth, fresh in the ways and methods
of higher learning, enters college he
needs counsel and friendship to help
him out of his bewilderment.

The personality of a teacher, his
power to inspire, and the example he
sets have more effect upon his students than he may ever realize.
However, remember that one must
not expect too much from any teacher—we ourselves must be the workers. “Once the door swings open
there is an equal ‘push’ ad ‘pull’
between professor and pupil.” The
period of transition from home to
college is bound to be filled with
mistakes but as one eminent doctor
said “The mistakes that make us
men are better than the accuracies
that keep us children.”

If students only would take the
friendly attitude, get acquainted with
and profit through the experiences
of their professors a great deal
would be accomplished. These college professors are, funny though it
may seem, peculiarly human—just
like you and me.

_ CO-EDUCATION

3 Is Co-Education a failure? Should we lift Shirreff Hall off
__ the Dalhousie Campus and place it across the North-West Arm?
Such questions will bristle with importance during the Inter
Class debate to-day. But regardless of what the august debe baters may decide, the issue is generally agreed upon that Co
Education is highly infeasible and detrimental to any real
_ progress by either sex in education, mentally or morally.

_ Looking at the issue from a purely educational and intellectual standpoint, it becomes plain that both sexes should have

_ the same opportunities, the same facilities for a broad basic
_ education. But these facilities should be separate and apart.
ey For, besides undergoing the same educational course as male
_ Students, the women should have other and separate training
_ in accordance with their particular needs. For in spite of

 
 
 
 

 

 
 

      
 
     
     
  
   
   
   
  
   
   

 
  

   

 
  

be - women’s so-called emancipation she is still the same creature
Ts ae y che panpl oem spiritually, morally, and still in a large measure
| Yoeationally,
et In practice Co-Edueation is a failure. Universities were
originally built for men, and the invasion of women into higher
as . - educational circles and particularly into the very precincts of
ee: the male University students, is greatly disliked by many. The
‘Ua eis, eect of the presence of women in University life is most
ee i as clearly seen in the discussion groups—the Seminars. Here the
|. discussion is inclined to be light and trivial compared to the
_ discussion groups composed entirely of males. In theory CoEducation may be partly accepted, but in practice we believe it
is a dismal failure.

 

_-—s«s FOREIGN POLICY ASSOCIATION EXPANDS
ene fo: STUDENT ACTIVITIES

College and university students of Canada will be inter
  
   
    
  
   
   
   
 
     
      

 

   

eed in the plans of the Foreign Policy Association of the
 U eet for extending its facilities to the academic world GAMENESS
_ during the coming season. . jeans
Ks those who have Rostand’s immortal character,

Dee. 2 participated in the study of internaA _ tional relations are aware, the F. P. A. is an eeaaieation whose
. purpose it is to make available to the public accurate, impartial
iat _ and timely information regarding world problems. Organized
ak in 1918, with national headquarters in New York, it now has
* _ branches in 17 cities and its more than ten thousand members
: are distributed throughout 48 states and 28 foreign countries.
met According to the Association’s new plan, a special member__ Ship for the academic year will be open to all regularly ac____ ¢redited full-time students at one-fifth the regular dues, Pubepee also to be available forclass-room use at special
‘ates, and study outlines have been prepared by the Associan's research staff for the use of debating groups and student
anizations interested in foreign problems.

Cyrano de Bergeroc, sums up the
French quality of gameness: “There
is no joy in fighting unless the odds
make success impossible.” It is indeed a wonderful thing, this quality
of gameness — its presence can do
more to make a university admired
and respected than any other characteristic. What matters it if in
athletics a team goes down to overwhelming defeat as long as every
man on that team gave his best.
Too many people think only of
winning — their views will soon

  

iL
ou

          
  
   

of ia

as se

er

Se a ot
ees ras <= 7, > a 2 E
ot PS Py ee ee
s- poe A Ph
‘ .) .

an
fs i

= > Pad: .

: 13S

et

4

 

- Doubltless when the first year
students bid farewell to their homes
to enroll at Dalhousie they were told
from every side by fathers, elders
and friends that their chance had
come. Perhaps great futures were
predicted for them and it was mentioned that we are living in a profoundly changing society. How
strikingly true and how applicable
is this change to the present day
college student that the Freshmen
found already rooted here.

In short, there is a new undergraduate in college (though some
movie directors and novelists have
not been informed of it yet). He is
unlike his predecessors in his pholosophy of life and manner of living.
Hard economic pressure has made
him more deeply concerned with the
issues of the day. How different
from his pre-war friends. Much of
this is due to the fact that most of
us who are now in our late “teens”
were probably busy making mud pies
when our play was rudely interrupted by the news of Armistice that
seemed to throw our respective towns
into such joyful pandemonium. The
significant fact about this is, that we
were born and have lived in a postwar world. Then again there is another important biographical fact
about us and that is we were just
leaving high school as the world,
stunned by financial reverses plunged into its present economic and
social morass. At first we did not
pay much attention to this depression but soon for the first time in
our lives through domestic shakeups
we were forced to feel the pinch of
financial embarrassment. The new
undergraduate then is a product of
these two periods. What student in
History has lived in such consequential years?

Still one might ask, Why should
this change our college life? The
answer is obviously that the former
sense of increasing wealth and dependence on parental income is no
longer present. Economic pressure
then has forced us to curtail our
activities. But again there are other
factors and principally it is this
dreadful feeling of insecurity, this
challenge to old orders, this economic upheaval that has forced us to
find a way out for themselves. In
short our eyes are now focused beyond the college gates. The lack of
assistance has made the future of
society no remote theoretical thing
for us. Our own future in a strange
unprecedented intimacy is involved
in the wordl’s present state.

Those of us who have completed
three or four years of College life
have even on our campus observed
this swift sequence of events, and
the decline of many established
customs. For example, the depression has made the traditional rah
rah, tuxedo crazed college life seem
silly and somewhat callous. Many
Fraternities under financial pressure
and dwindling pledge prospects have
closed their doors. Deluxe hotel
dances are more than a match for
slim pockets. Initiation has been
abolished and the present undergraduate regards the traditional folderol
of Packard roadsters and raccoon
coats as so much tinsel. An increasing number have enrolled in Political
science and economics, Study groups,
extra mural lectures and political
activity have invaded our campus.
Politics and economic doctrines have
replaced the heated discussions about
Women at the luncheon table rendezvous. Likewise the library at
times is filled to capacity while
students indulge in a perusal of current periodicals. Yes, there has been
a change, but not only is it confined
to the more material things because
students are beginning to question
some of the established orders.
Would Sodales in 1912 have approved
the motion that Dalhousie should
not take up arms for her country?

 

change. Nor is this quality confined to the sporting world. Literary
men—Sir Thomas More, Sir Walter
Seott, Robert Louis Stevenson, Mark
Twain—had the pluck and gameness
to overcome great tribulations.

Gameness is a trait of all nations
—it is the man who faces great odds
with a courageous smile on his lips
that gains the applause of the world
be he white, yellow or black.

 

 

    
  

November 8, 1934

POET’S CORNER

ASHES

When splendid wood is quite consumed
The ashes left are white and fine:
There is no fire, no light relumed

To glimmer through the dark, and shine
As when a noble love has burned

With blinding sweet ecstatic fire

Unto the end. Before inurned,

The ashes resting on the pyre

Give such a mad, amazing glow

That fills the air and night above
With mystic light, but this, I know,
Can never be the end—of love.

When I have watched your body burn,
Then turned away with bended head,
The ashes gathered in the urn

Will tell the world that you are dead.
Not dead! But living, burning still
With all the fierceness of a flame!

So I shall wait, alone, until

I hear the summons of my name.

The gentle fingers of my mind

Will take my mem’ries, one by one,
And turn them over, seek to find

The thread from which they all were spun. |
And, finding, follow through the years |
When the great sweeping flame of ours
Burned steadily, and quell the fears
That interrupt my pensive hours.

— ee

Just as from a dream awaking,

One night, I’ll hear a distant ery,

See a scarlet flame that’s making

A blazing path across the sky.

Beyond the Earth, and out in Space
Another star will gleam and glow . |
As brightly as the smiling face | |
That once I knew—and I shall go,
Leave all my little plans behind,
All my vain seeking after Truth,
And fly into the dark to find

The far Land of Immortal Youth.
High and ever mounting higher
Over Life’s encumbering bars,
Speeding like a tongue of fire,
Passing ranks of gaping stars j.
Above the Earth so dead and cold s—(‘isSS
Till we, who shared each fond delight, — eae
Link amorous fingers as of old,

And smile, and pass into the night. ’

 

 

The Conservatory |

Invites Interest |MacLeod, Balcom
Limited

DRUGGIST

Mrs. E. W. Cruickshanks of the |
Halifax Conservatory of Music, in- |
vites any Dalhousie students who
would like to try for a part in an
operetta to be presented to the public next March, to turn out for rehearsals commencing Wednesday,
November 14th. Any one uiveresved)
may call Mrs. Cruickshanks at Arm- |
dale House.

Halifax and Bedford

 

   
    
 
      
   
     
     
    

 

FORMAL EVENING WEAR

“THE STUDENTS’ CLOTHES SHOP”

PASSES ALCNG

  

-aScoopin I uxedo

A good quality cloth, beautifully tailored

  

Complete with Silk Vest
The Three Pieces tor

$22.50

Accessories to match include Dress Shirts,

Scarves, Ties, Hats, Braces and Gloves.

Shane's Men’s Shop

Thirty Spring Garden Road

DISCOUNT OF TEN PER CENT. ON ALL REGULAR LINES

 

  
ee ae

Fi !

  
  
 
  
  
 
 
   
  

- H i hte
4 ate. a eel i ’
PNY eng ey VN Ccan\anl
Pa Ak os : we
rN ey aoe we
Lite . pr a

 
 

ea ye
2 ble

 
 

ere i ht * ’
iy % ae ase ,* a
6 ‘ ; 4

 

ONE NIGHT

Light, fleecy clouds drifted lazily
/across the full, round face of the
August moon. The breathless air
was delicately scented with the faint,
tantalizing odor of wild roses which
grew in profusion on the bank ‘sloping upward from the silver beach.
The Atlantic was quiet save for the
regular, muffled whisper of the
waves breaking gently upon the
sand. A girl and a boy strolled
hand in hand along the shore, laughing at their own efforts to find secure

   

 

   
 

_ | STUDENTS
- See Our Pictorial
Work for Gifts

r

 
          
   

| 18 Spring Gardren Rd
op Paeene BR: 6992

  
  

STEREOTYPES
OF STUDENTS

      

THE DENTAL STUDENT
st. At the flower of unclean is the
- Dent—he is bound to go far, for he
has the “pull”. Each day from early
morn till late at night he stands in
the clinic just ‘hoping and waiting
for patients to walk in’so he can get
in his daily tooth pulling or tooth
filling. And what -ptide he takes in
a ‘keeping account of each individual
© *tooth that is pulled. In some seclud. -ed spot in his room he keeps his own
ypersonal account of his victims—
and smiles to ‘himself as he thinks
ss “that at some future date he will get
 gpaid for such easy work,

 

  

      
   

  

- mesils the dent is still brushing his
teeth. He almost thinks he is some
Cher 7 day going to get paid for this—and
x that ‘is why he practices. But he explains the reason for these long
brushes is that an old broom never
sweeps clean unless one forces it to
—and that’s what he is doing.

The main ambition of a dent is to
- ——_ proteet his fingers—those long skill
ed fingers! He wouldn’t think of
ms playing too much football or basketa ball for fear he might injure those
ae long bones of his. His important

or other forms of cards—and he extremely hates to play with any perwho bangs his hands on the table—
that reminds him of the injury that
one might to do to his fingers or
perhaps its his table..

The Dent is always a popular chap
Be and he is always showing his friends
BL where to find a good dentist. His

 
   
      

pastime is playing solitaire or bridge:

footing in the shifting sand.

“Where are we going ?” she asked.
“You'll see,” he laughed, “It’s a

secret.”

Soon they come to a rock ‘covered
point and the lights of ‘the cottage
they had recently left disappeared,

hidden by the overhanging ‘bank.
“There,” he said, pointing to a

natural seat in the rocks, “Behold

my den. This is where I come when

I want to growl so no one can hear

me. It’s really comfortable when
you get settled. Shall we squat?”

“T’d love to,” she smiled.

So down they clambered into the
rocky nook and leaned against the
smooth back of the seat. Distant
lighthouses flickered and winked
their message across the water,
looking like fireflies dancing between
the golden moon-path and the sky.
An ominous bank of cloud crept
slowly across the sky ‘behind them
but this was lost in fhe magical
charm of the summer night.

“Like it?” he asked.

“Uh-huh.” She gave a delicious

  
    

on the back.”

 
 

“Sorry, Mother Nature didn’t supply any cushions, but this a fairly
good substitute,” he said, and placed
his arm between her shoulders and
the annoying boulder..““That better ?”’

‘For answer, she curled up inside
his arm, turned her face to ‘his, and

       
 
       
       
 

smiled, “What do you think?”

 
 
  

Then, after a long minute of silence, while he was looking across
ater and she watched the

  
  
  
  

  

.

  

  
  
   
  
 

 
    
 

SP ss Ch NU A és Je} le M ne AF ,
seyetre, = shoe changin expressions of his face. —
h hi nd that}. Dreaming again? Rupert, I don’t;
et Yes civics Ree | Know if you are quite like I am*or
eee rctee yi: a % gine the dent | Not, but I think you are. Don’t you}
Be id se oe — i ee over get tired of just imaging roML | isu a-br - hing ‘hits: Se a | aRench ond trying to portray it in
the others are even finished their

words? I know that I often grow
weary of seeking for beautiful things
to paint. Everything loses its charm
unless we can get away from it for
a while. You know, there is a lot
of truth in the saying that ‘Absence
makes the heart grow fonder—”

“For something else,’ he finished. Then, seriously, “You’re quite
right, Madeleine. I often get sick
of dream voyages and long to experience the many things I imagine.
But so many factors militate against
their realization. In our dreams we
always forget conventions, families
and public opinion. But the chief
)reason for their non-fulfilment is
either that we laugh at love or never
get the time or opportunity to satisfy our longings. We go on, day by
day, saying, ‘Perhaps, to-morrow,
something will come along.’ But tomorrow never comes.”

“Yes, but don’t you think that
those who laugh at love are like

  
 
 
 
  
 

little wiggle of her shoulders and
softly sighed. “But it is a little hard

 

‘they even showeth up the Soph, who
them.

hand from the far lande of Bue
‘popularity can be based upon two children who sing in the dark—they
grounds—firstly, that he has a swell | are really afraid? But this is topersonality and secondly that he’s| night, and here is both the time and
well advertised and sure knows how/|the opportunity. Let’s forget that
to take advantage of “brush your/I’m an artist looking for beautiful
teeth twice each day; see your den-| Scenes and that you’re a poet searchtist twice each year.” By his rates|ing for striking expressions and be
anyone would think that he was pay- | just ordinary human beings for a
ing for the ordeal himself. change. Let’s stop living in dreams.
This is real, Rupert, real!”

“Well, Madeleine, I’ve almost for
 
     
   
  
   
  
    

 

 

 
 

 
    
   
   
 
   

I know my business — BUT
I need your head in it.

Haircuts 25c.

| BERT BOWLBY
_ 445 BARRINGTON STREET

   
 
 
   

 
 

gotten how—it’s so long since I’ve
held a woman in my arms—but I’ve,
I’ve often dreamed. of a moment such
as this ever since I met you, and
now— It is real, isn’t it? God! you
are desirable—”

 

 
    

      

 

 

  

  
  

(Over Buckley’s)
FROM THE

a WINNERS START
| had ce ae the REACH arate
i a : on Sporti G is )

| been a eae of perfection. No
_ | matter what your favorite sport

FRASER BROS.
TAXI

       
      
        
 

   

_ | may be we can supply you with
| equipment that will’ help ‘yo
Je ee Ee air tee ee 25c. Rate

  
      

t 1a’ s in you.
hk ke On all Student call.

B-6070

 
 
 
  
   
   

 


nf me | ™

we
= wa , Qeerres . ai
ea es ail at Lh ile “ey.
oe Bee, tah
ee | ee

DALHOUSI

“THE FOURTH BOOK OF

CHAPTER 6

1. It has so come to pass that
‘each and every year there cometh
‘unto the Lande of Law new Kheepers of the Bhuks. Some are Gud
‘and others are Bad, and sometimes
the Studes of the Law wax their
wrath at the learned Lhib-rare-yans.
‘The youngest and most unruly of
these is one David Goliathe of the
‘lan of Rhed-monde; he believeth in
showing his power and making the
Studes await him, for each Night
he cometh into the Lhibrary ten
minutes tardy, and always desireth
to leavest at least fifteen minutes
early. He is the Master of his own
Domaine, and his one joy in life is
to be the Boss.

2. Then the Lande of Law boasts
of a second man who always driveth
unto the School, and who believeth
well that to pick up a prof each day
is to keep the Plucks away. This
Sentinal is the early man of his
group, but there is much reason in
his madness, for he takes unto himself all the Bhuks that are needed,
and so leaves the Cup-Board bare
for the other seconde year men, who
even go so far as to do away with
the car of the Learned Queeler in
the hope that next time he will spare
the Bhuks.

3. But lo, fortunately for the
Studes of Law there is a third Lhibrare-yan—a learned Man of Ye olde
School. This Man, who is known to
the Studes as Makkevoi, neither
cometh late to show who is boss or

E GAZETTE

BUNK

STUDENT’S FORUM

 

Should Dal Have
a Year Book

Editor, Dalhousie Gazette:

 

Dear Sir,—Thereis a question whi

Sir,—There is a question which
this year, more than ever before
seems to be on the lips of every
student, and that is whether this
year Dalhousie is going to have a
Year Book. It is a question in which
every student should be given a
chance to air his views, and may |
suggest that each week one of your
columns be put to the use of the
Student for discussing the pro and
con of this matter.

Last year the Council decided that
there was to be no Year Book, their
main reason being that it*was too
expensive. Perhaps if they examined their own budget, they would soon
realize the reason they have nothing
left to spend for the benefit of the
graduate. All other Colleges seem
to be able to afford Year Books, and
in many places the Books are given
free to the graduate. These colleges
of which I am writing are no larger
than Dalhousie, and the Student’s
Council fee is anything is less.

early, to swipe the Bhoke—he is al- These Colleges also have winning

Ways just on time.
all Bhuks with a smile, and never
minds getting up from his work to
help a more unfortunate Stude. His
work is his Life and he careth for
no man—yea not even the Privy
Council. He is truly great and well
deserveth the title he has—Makkevoi
the Sere.

4, Once again it came to pass
that the Frosh took the Lhimelite in
the Lande of Dal. This time it was
they who putteth on a show for their
elder Soph, and for the rest of the
Children of Dal. They worked hard
and long, and they tried very hard
to please. Success was theirs when

just’ a short while ago entertaineth

5. The Frosh putteth on the first
Playe of the Seazon in which there
were many Stars. Ruth of Weeg
Nose-Arys, made a very fat and
olde Mother, but always did her bit,
while the Young Weedow made
friends among the awdyentz, as the
young Gold-bhurge who seemeth always to move his Hands—tried to
make her Frend-Shipe.

6. It even came to pass that the
Frosh too could play music and sing |
and dance, which brought back to
the Studes memories of ye olden
One Man whom we shall henceforth
surname Beel the Small, (for he is
as tall as Beel of the Bhasketball
Floor or Mit the Mus-Ghrave, and
as wide as one famous Hurbee.),
sang Passing by Windows in an
Olde Fashioned Towne to the delight
of the Studes, who liketh Good Music
at times, but who rarely like the
Frosh. Yet the Studes liketh the
voice of Beel the Small so greatly
that they clappeth and clappeth that
he sing some more; then Peekard
Bazely with his lighting effects helped Lu Morrysohn’s famous Tose be-.
come popular with the Children of
Dal . . Other Frosh did their parts
very well, and the evening was
named enjoyable by all, which is
rarely heard at Glee Cloob these
days. 7

  

esis seeemrsciessecaeione
His burning eyes met hers and
saw in them a challenge. Pulses
leaped and breathing quickened as
slowly his lips sought hers, found
and clung to them for a passionate,
rapturous kiss.
Slowly a surprised expression
came on her face. Her eyes opened.
“Rupert,” she whispered, “It’s, it’s
raining!”
“Oh, damn!
to run.”

Come on, we'll have

 

And that, dear readers, is the stuff
that dreams are made of — plus a
quite usual ending.

Our thought for the week: ‘A
man is not complete until he is married—it finishes him!’

Erotically yours,
: DIXIE DOTT.

*
Hig

He passeth out |

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   

i football teams and basketball teams
as well as all other inter-faculty
sports, and still they find sufficient!
funds for a Year Book; what is
wrong with Dalhousie?

Last year immediately after de
too expensive, the Council managed
to find enough money to support the
Basketball team in the Maritime
Finals, and surely that was just as
expensive as the Year Book would
have been. I am not begrudging
the money spent on the basketball
team, but still if it can be found for
them, why can’t it be found for the
Year Book.

A Year Book has enumerable advantages, especially for the Graduate. It is his real souvenir of his
college days. The diploma is the
grand finale of years of hard work,
The Year Book should be made the
grand finale to years of enjoyment.
Without a Year Book something very
substantial is lacking. The’ Council
and others decry the lack of College
spirit at Dal, and yet they kill one
of the most vital factors that is
necessary for that spirit.

The graduates of last year left the
university without a Year Book, and
it is a known fact that many of them
are sorry for it. The same thing
will happen again this year, and
every other year to follow unless the
students and graduates have a few
words to say as to how their ten
dollars should be spent.

Yours truly,
GRADUATE.

 

To the Editor of The Gazette:

Dear Sir,—A rather paradoxical
state of affairs existing in the
Gymnasium has roused the ire of
the | ady students considerably, and
in the general opinion, very justifiably.

A regulation was laid down last
year specifying that the girls were
not to wear shorts when playing
Badminton.

With this dread dictum hanging
over them, the girls find it hard indeed when they enter the Gym to
see men students clad in nothing
but the flimiest of shorts as they
practice basketball. These men,
running all over the floor with perspiration pouring down their chests
and backs, present nothing but a
disgusting sight to the co-eds. Were
the Gymn for men alone, there
could be no objection, but as the
girls have the use of it, too, it is a
rather indecent conflict of conditions.

The Dalhousie women students
have all been brought up in respectable homes, and it is certainly
hard for them to face almost complete nudity, aside altogether from
the question of whether they
should or should not wear shorts.

A condition such as this calls for
immediate action. The ordinary decencies of convention might at least
be complied with.

“OBSERVER”,

 
     
 

 

SAGGIN’
WHEELS...

 

Quality

urret

You can’t blame him for
airing his grievance. But
wait ‘till he lights up a
Turret Cigarette—that will
help to steer him to real
contentment however
“flat” the outlook may
be. Turret’s smooth, satisfying goodness does carry
a man home to genuine
smoking enjoyment.

and Mildness

 

CIGARETTES
SAVE THE POKER HANDS

Imperial Tobacco Company of Canada, Limited

THE N. F. C. U. S.

(An Editorial in the Dalhousie
Gazette )

The recent decision of the Council |

of the Students to continue Dal
eiding that a Year Book would be | housie’s membership in the National |

 

| Perey Davies, M.P., is pre-eminent

whom the Secretary-Treasurer, Mr.
>
has built the Federation into a serviceable institution in student life.
The N.F.C.U.S. is surely destined to
go on from strength to strength. It
is a thing much too important to be
wrecked by sectional. constitutions

Federation of Canadian University | and petty economies.

Students is one which
| eral approval. In these days of |
‘unbalanced budgets the N-E'.C\ U.S. |
in company with other federal or- |
ganizations, is under fire. The
argument is an old one—that the
benefits of membership do not warrant the cost. The argument is
easily urged, for the cost is as tangible as a cold cash payment can be,
while the resultant benefits and
privileges are apparent only to those
who take trouble to enquire into the
matter. Yet the advantages of memberships are very real,and certainly
under the modified levy system introduced this year yield a goodly
return of the Dalhousie investment
therein.

The mere circumstance that some
fifty other countries maintain national student federations would lead one
to believe that the central organizations serve a useful purpose. This
was a leading argument put forward
when, perhaps none too early in the
day, the N.F.C.U.S. was established
in 1926. The Canadian Federation
has been hampered from the first by
the great geographical distances ly- |
ing between the member universities. Yet the very circumstance of
distance, leading as it does to a
certain provincialism in outlook,
creates a very real need for a national organization among Canadian
students. If the national as opposed
to the sectional outlook is work anything at all it should be fostered
particularly among the various stu
 

deserves gen-|

 

Students’ Directory

The Students Directory has at last
made its appearance on the campus.
The sponsors of such are to be commended because there is no pamphlet of more useful purpose than a
list of all societies and addresses of
students. ese

The book is given free of charge
to all Dalhousie and King’s College
students. To accomplish this entailed extensive canvassing of advertisers it is hoped that the students
will extend every courtesy to the
advertisers who have made the publication of his book possible. Many
of them have given space without
any reciprocation from the students.

‘Such charitable gestures cannot be

expected continue unless the students
do their part.

BIRKS.-
New arrivals in handbags for Milady are
arresting in style, material, and color.

Evening bags, too
—timely gifts.

dent bodies.

During the seven years of its existence the N.F.C.U.S. has not been
found wanting in attending to its
business. Its machinery has been
gradually improved upon the scope
of its activities constantly extended.
In particular the enlightened contribution of certain individuals, among

Henry Birks & Sons

Limited

DIAMOND MERCHANTS
Halifax, N. S.,

 

The
Canterbury Room

Halifax Transfer
~~“ B. 7138

 

While students were at

Student’s Special

SUITS or TOPCOATS
perfectly dry cleaned
and pressed

$1.25

Sponged and Pressed, 45c.
Called for and delivered.

Telephone Lorne 2323.

e 9 ° &
Cousins’ Limited
Dry Cleaners - Dyers - Tailors
“None better—anywhere”

home during the summer
The Green Lantern made

     
      

a decided change in decorating The Canterbury
Room.

 
      

Cosy and very

   

nice,

The Green Lantern

      

 
   
       

2 ee

al

    
 
   
     
  
     

efi .
L -“ 7 ’ ‘
ait ; ’
, re , .
csi mle Ts
- ~ — — = ———
~ ens let Mt nS
14

 

- Misfortun ad Peaalt , Kicks By Don Ross and Doug Crease
Be), Rob’ Dal of Victory. — Doug Bent’s Try Is Only Score for
, mea the Tigers. —

ret, nce again injuries forced the college team to change its
| a dees with Carl Stoddard, half, and lanky Webster, forward,

_

ans): first Senior game; Neil Ferguson again saw action as forward,

es Victory To Wanderers

     
 
  
 
   
   
  
  
  
  
 
   
 
 
  
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 

: i
aed i. b

LAG
a £ J y
a res
i ee
{ ’ oe a
Te i
: a c>7

inn. 3
[Me, i

“Mies 7S, ¥
, oP ata? ?
ed .
a a
a <
i ae Go
ae '
Ma > sh
a) a ti 7
ne
wee
i ‘onlin |
es
i a at *

i 2
aie”

r
®

 
  
  
  
   
  
 

} k
at)
at.
Pies <i
<a
ee Fee
f 7 a
A tee a

de

  

 
  

ne

- _+ By ati

ae |
yr L

ae
f
i f
# ' = S: d vY d
ut 4

oe, son’s

George Thompson, playing outside
half for Dal, turned in a spectacular

‘game, as his sure tackles stopped

many a possible try and his runs
nearly resulted in tries.

The Dal scrum, working well,
heeled the ‘ball out many a time,
only to have the Reds follow up
fast before the ball made any great
headway on the line. Penalties

were numerous, with each team get
ting an even number of the twentysix handed out. It was on one of
these that the Wanderers first
scored early in the first half on a
kick by Duffus. Smarting under the
score, the Tigers came back with a
stronger determination to score,
with Jim Crosby and Jack Buckley
making gains. The Reds, forced to

- defend, were successful in staving

off the Tigers.

Disputed Try By Wanderers.

Later in the game, Rainnie, hefty
Redman, eluded several tacklers on
_a nice bit of running, gave the winmers another try which was converted, to put them in a big lead.
Undaunted, the Tigers fought back,
not discouraged by their belief that
the try was made after the runner
had gone over the touch line before
scoring.
_ The University team’s efforts were
rewarded when George Thompson’s
dribble went over the goal line and
reliable Doug Bent, forward, fell on
the ball for their only score, which
went unconverted. This score by the
blonde forward placed him in tie
-position with Doug Crease at twelve
‘points for season scoring honors of
Tigers. If fortune was with

 
 

a. Ae

   
 

*

the rest
by

* rs

 

effort.

It was by no means any easy vic
tory for the winners. Credit for the
victory went to Reds’ backfield,
whereas it was the stiff playing of
the forwards that won in the team’s
previous meeting at Studley. Don
Ross, big forward of the University
squad, received a bad kick in the
face during the game, but fortunately was able to continue play. With

i
lj

 

*MARIT

 

   
   
    
  
  
   
  
   
  
     
  
   
  
   
  
   
       
  
  
  
    
 
 
  
   
 
  
   

 

ne | creditable game. He was moved up
",|to the three-quarter line from full
“| back position being replaced by Hal
Connor. New faces on the Cubs
line-up included speedy Mike Hin
jians_as Don Ross’ and

 

  
  

|monds and Thompson.

 

Renown.
CASHMERE SOCKS

You'll have little trouble in buying
Patterns you like

There are so many different
designs and colours, Whether
you prefer them striking or
subdued, or in-between, you'll
find, not one, but a number in
Renown. Small novelties, cross
checks, large and split diamonds,
motifs in a variety of tones to
go along with new Fall
clothes. Wool cashmere with
cotton patterns and splicings.
Sizes 10 to 1114.

_ while Henry Ross, having recovered from an early-season ini : jury, saw duty on the three-quarter line.

one league game left, the Collegians
are favored to win over the United
Services at Studley on Saturday,
and an Intermediate victory is also
being looked for over the Services’
seconds.

Dal Line-up: Fullback, J. Worrell;
three-quarters, J. Crosby, J. Buckley, H. Ross, G. Thompson; halves,
H. Flynn, D. Crease, D. Bauld; forwards, D. Ross, D. Bent, R. Barnstead, N. Ferguson, E. Ball, M.
Lawrence, G. Tanton (Capt.)

Place Kick Gives Reds
Victory Over Cubs

Wanderers repeated their 8—0
victory over the Cubs at Studley in
first encounter, to down their opponents by a similar score at Redland
Saturday. The game saw the first
half go scoreless as each team fought
hard to get into the scoring area.
Hal Conner, former Senior Tiger of
the past few seasons, got back into
his first city league game at his
familiar full-back position. His
kicking marked the play in both sessions of the game,

It was Chuck Lorway who nearly
scored for the Cubs in the initial
period. Awarded a free kick in front
of the posts Lorway chose tod dropkick but the ball went astray.

The Cubs forwards were slightly
stronger than the Reds but their line
was unable to carry the ball into
scoring area.

Gosse who has been playing heady
ball all season turned in his usual

chey of inter-faculty fame, Sim
The lone score of the game came
in the second period on a penalty
kick by Beazley of the Reds for three
points which tally the Cubs were unable to off-set.

Dal Cubs: fullback: H. Connor;
three-quarters, L. Simmonds, H. Gosse, H. Magonet, McKinnon; halves:
C, Miller, M. Hinchey, Thompson;
forwards: Victor, Beeber, B. Armstrong, Fraser, Stephenson, C. Lorway, McKenzie.

 

 

clock effects, circle

pair BOC

Eaton’—Msain Floor.

————_——————

Se eet rpeSreet ee. 
on the injured list. Don Bauld, replacing Stoddard, played his

a
ee er Ce erro — TTT CS“ eReRee
ee
ee
.

Loe

DALHOU SIE GAZETTE ~

“SPORT REVIEW

Dalhousie’s tiger-striped football fifteen passed ingloriously
out of the 1934 title race last Saturday at the Wanderers’
grounds as they took an 8—3 lacing from the Reds. Thus ends
Dal’s worst season in many years. The final game with United
Services this Saturday has no effect on the league race except
that many think that the Bengals will drop the match and
finish in last place.

   

Dal lost the Wanderers’ game through two _ slip-ups
by Doug Crease and Don Ross, as they each missed easy penalty
shots.

The refereeing in the City League has reached the stage
where something must be done if the English game is to be
preserved. Fletcher Smith, an old Dalhousian, in his efforts
to be unbiased in Dal’s favor, gave his old school a flagrantly
raw deal. A few table talks from Mac would help Fletcher a
great deal.

A statement in the columns of this rag last week as much
as blamed Coach McCarthy for the weakness of the team.
Coach McCarthy is to be commended for even putting a team
on the field last Saturday, jinxed as he was. Injury upon injury has wrecked a good football machine until eleven men
are out with hurts and the Cubs moved up to fill the gaps,
leaving only three of the original second team. The missing
include Carl Stoddard, Bud Peters, Webster, Don Ross, Henry
Ross, Simon Webber, Bob MacLellan, Ted Crease, Percy Sheppard, and Irving Krebs.

Manager Eddie Arab of the boxing team tells me that the
Intercollegiate Tournament is slated for U.N. B. this year.
Dal should lift the title with such mitt-slingers as Eddie himee Boyd MecGillvray, Vic Kyte, Hymie Magonet, and others
on deck,

In our best gate-crashing manner we managed to crash
the inner sanctum where Manager Art Ross and Coach Frank
Patrick breakfasted on Friday last and in the course of conversation learned that the big ice moguls of the Boston Bruins
played football against Dalhousie around 1903.

Charlie Anderson, veteran star guard on every Dalhousie
cage squad for the past several years, says that he is through
as a player. “Parson” captained the Maritime Champs last
year and is confining his activity to coaching the girls this
year. The “Parse” will be missed.

It is rumored that Hank Davidson will return to the basketball wars after a two year lay off.

_ Will the members of this year’s football team receive gold
D’s? If so, the “D” will further decrease in value if possible.
There is a move under way to clean up, standardize, and raise
the qualifications for “D” awards, and it’s about time.

Dal American Football
Team Cop City League

Playing their final league game of the season the Dalhousie
American Football team won the undisputed championship of
the Halifax City American Football League, by blanking the
Ardmore Rangers with a score of 39—0. This made the
third win for the Dal Team, with one tied game played with
St. Mary’s. Their superiority over the competing teams is
shown by the fact that during the whole season not one point
has been scored against them.

D. A. A. C.

Minutes of Meeting of Management Committee of the D.A.A.C.—
Murray Homestead, Sunday, November 4th, 1934. President G. C.
Thompson was in the chair. The
minutes of the previous meeting
were approved as read. Discussions
on further items of the basketball
budget was deferred. It was decidedto visit the Property Manager of
the D.A.A.C., Mr. Payne, in order to
inspect the equipment in his care.
Votes of ¢ensure were passed on
Messrs. Proctor and MacLellan’ for
failing to be present to give their
report re the expense and quality
of training table meals, as well as
on Mr. Ferguson for not being there
to present his protest re Law-Arts
game. Dean MacDonald, Prof. Bell
and Mr. Hinchey were also censured
for not attending the meeting.

Moved by Mr. Eagles, seconded by
rM. Richardsont hat the secretary
report the minutes of the Management Committee to the Gazette.

Mr. F. X. Mackasey was appointed
manager of the Dalhousie hockey
team. Mr. W. E. Stirling was ap
 

 

Big Bill Gladstone scored the first
six points of the game against the
Ardmores when he received a forward pass from Cy Miller inside the
Ardmore twenty yard line and crossed the Rangers goal line. In the
same quarter Abe Mandelston,
coach of Dal eleven, scored the second touchdown and one of his teammates successfully kicked for the extra point.

Throughout the second and third
periods the Tigers launched attack
after attack, succeeding in keeping
the ball in Ardmore territory most
of the time. Nineteen points were
scored in these periods. Miller,
Mandelstan and Kroutz getting the
tallies.

The final period saw the Bengals
completely in charge of the pigskin,
while the Ardmores had their troubles in trying to keep the score as
low as possible. In the opening
minutes Ken Schwartz scored the
final Dal touchdowns with Miller
getting the extra point.

 

 

STATISTICS
Dal Ards
a iveue Wwestaeiaseuad 2 15 ]

 

First Downs

Completed F dP i.
pointed coach of the basketball team. a ‘ Pee et f :

It was recommended to he Council | , es dx tercopaa “ne : :
of Students that their Secretary be | tumbles ae or eee : ;

 

at his home for three hours each
day. )
Mover by Mr. Richardson, second- | Line-up:

ed by Mr. Eagles that Mr. Green! Dalhousie: Green, right end; Alpresenta full report of his budget | lyn, right tackle; Rosenburg, right
and of the manner in which ping- | guard; Glorioso, centre; Becker, left
pong is handled at Dalhousie now.| guard; DuBilier, left tackle; GladMoved the meeting adjourn.—| stone, left end; Shandalov, quarterCarried. back; Mandelstan, left half-back;
R. W. MACLELLAN, Miller, right l-back; Kroutz, full
Secretary-Treasurer. back.

Yards lost on Penalties... .10 10

‘November 8, 1934 —

A Message To Chilice Men

Whether buying a life insurance policy as a provision for the future, or contemplating the selling
of life insurance as a profession, you would do
well to consider the outstanding sixty-four record

of The Mutual Life of Canada. Communicate

with our nearest Branch Manager or our Home

Office.

 

Mutual Life Assurance Company
OF CANADA

HOME OFFICE — WATERLOO, ONTARIO
Established 1869

 

 

 

Interfaculty Football League

With the regular league schedule over, the play-offs between the first three teams will be staged this week. Points
ind the Lawyers in first place with Medicine trailing by a single
soint while the Commerce-Engineer team being the sole survi
vor from Studley.

All the league was not as smooth
as was hoped as the Undergraduate
boys saw fit to forfeit their last three
games to teams, Law and Medicine,
from the Forrest Building. It is to
be regretted that the undergraduates
could not find time to support their
managers and put in an appearance for their games. If anyone
could more justly raise that plea it
is the Professional School Teams.
On two occassions did Medicine
take time to appear on the field
only to find opponent’s missing,
while the Lawyers found the same
condition on one occasion. Possibly the other teams realized that
their games would not affect the
League standing, at least they have a
right to their own opinion. It is felt,
however, that the play-offs will result in a renewed interest at least,
on the part of the survivors.

The league, even to date has well

shown its worth in its contribution
of players both to the Cubs and
Tigers line-ups, as many recruits
were taken from the various teams.
Medicine and Law are favored to
compete in the finals, the Lawyers
being defending champions.

 

 

 

House League

The Basketball House Leagus
opened to an unusually early start
this year and already each of the
eight teams have played two games.
As a result of these opening frays;
Bauld’s Mugwumps and the sturdy
Pansies led by Leo Simmonds are
tied for leadership with two wins
apiece.

Thursday, November 1
Mugwumps—19 Greasepans—11

Maintaining an early lead, the
Mugwumps won their first game
with Bauld and MacKinnon getting
major honors with 7 points each.
Doug Crease was high-scorer for
the losers with 5 points.

 

Baskethangers, 21 Wallflowers, 10

Baskethangers easily defeated
Gladstone’s Wallflowers who lacked
scoring punch. eGorgeSi mon netted
four baskets to get 8 points for the
winners.

 

Pansies—14 Grapenuts—8
Although Ted Crease scored &

8 points for the Pansies this game ||!

EVERY DAY IS
BARGAIN DAY

AT

TIP
TOP TAILORS

ONE PRICE ONLY

523.50

MADE TO MEASURE
SUITS, OVERCOATS, FULL
DRESS AND TUXEDO.

422 BARRINGTON ST.

 

ended in a low score. The airtight
defense of the winners accounts for
the low score of the Grapenuts.

 

Guttersnipes—19 Nutmegs—1l1
During the first half the teams
could only score 8 points each.

Opening the second period with a
rush the Guttersnipes outscored their
opponents 16 to 8 as Musgrave accounted for four baskets.

        
     
      
      
     

All Dalhousie Students
Cordially Invited.
BIG

Nine until One

COLLEGIATE DANCE
at the

“COLLEGE INN”

Quinpool Road
Near Arm Bridge

This FRIDAY Night
Ladies 25c. Gents 35c .
Street Cars stop right at the door

G. A. McDonald

Tobacconist

Smokers’ Requisites of Every
Description.

A Complete Stock of

CIGARS, CIGARETTES,
TOBACCO and BRIAR PIPES.

21 Spring Gard. Rd. Halifax

 

CASINO

Wednesday, Thursday and
Friday, Nov. 7, 8, 9

365
Nights in Hollywood
365 Laughs with
JAMES DUNN

ALICE FAYNE
MITCHELL & DAVANTE

Starting Saturday

“DEATH ON THE
DIAMOND”

 

 

 

 

Mrs. Wiggs
of the
Cabbage Patch

with W. C. Fields, Zazu
Pitts, Pauline Lord, Evelyn Venable, Kent Taylor.

It’s Open House at the
Wigeg’s Shanty
Friday, Sat., Monday

 


 
