   
 
  
    
     

a
San
f 7,

iat
wy
S Se
ty
.. ‘.

i

; ae}

ye

 

of the Children of Dal, which had

“while Leetle Beth the Quiet was
also present. And in a far corner


struggle.

    
 

7 ? . ’ vi yea) , at ‘01 . : there were fewer
ree ier this when The
ee niet : 3eggars ask you for their own

money back;
and they shall do as they

h Ky Pie
i ~
: ¥

thought of the honour they had).

‘ Leaders of the

“VOL. LXV.

THE FOURTH
BOOK OF BUNK

 

1. And so it came to pass the
Counsel of Studes met in conference
to decide the fate of the Ten Bhuks

been put in their handes for care.
All the Mhen and Womhen of Wisdom were there, including Teazedhale the Lord; Makkevoy, who often
desireth to be Lord, and who often
speaketh in place of the Lord;
Feescher of Stove Fame, who too
talketh more than many others;

of the room there could be seen a
number of frightened Studes who
had to plead with the learned Counsel to aid the Children of Dal by
granting help to their Societies. The
lord of the Counsel noticed, among
others, Spee the Spot, who should
have been only seen and not heard,
but on this occasion was heard too
much. Whallings, the Add getter,
was also there, and he could be
noticed to shake down to his boot
laces as he awaited the Fate of the
-Yette.
as Teazedhale the lord shouteth
the meeting to order—but it was
well nigh impossible, for some of
the members fell to arguing they
would stop for no one. Finally, however, Rankeene the Scribe shut them
and he proceeded to read the

u
Mietea, after which started the
strug The lord Teazedhale re-|

all present that there was

   

 
  

jt is now in our handes
are bid.
(A chuckle could be heard from
the Members of the Counsel as they

3. First to rise was Whallings
the Add-getter, who pleaded for the
Gaz-Yette, pleaded so that the Editors could make a better paper for
the Studes. But each time that
Whallings would ask for a thing
Feesher would treat the Counsel to
‘another of those Feescher speaches’,
and he would say “No”, the GazYette needs it not, give it to some
worthy cause — like teaching the
children to speak like “I”. And
Teazedhale too had some excuse—
for had’ not the Gaz-Yette last week
panned the Med, and he could take
it not; and then too if the money Is
granted perhaps the Studes would
like the Gaz-Yette too much, and
then it would be more powerful
than the learned Counsel _ itself.
Even Spec the Spot of the Murray
Clan—he who had no Buz to talk,
talked alowde, and sputtered: “I
never received anything from the
Gaz and I wrote C.O.T.C. notes for
a whole year, that is, real Literature, and I even stooped to read
proof. Nobody else has done more,
and yet they have all reaped rich
prizes, while I was forced out in
the cold. Give nothing to the Rag,
give it to the C.0.T.C. or to Badminton.” Rankeene hardly spoke,
but he could be seen rubbing his
hands and whispering to himself
that his five hundred Bhucks are as
safe as if they were in my jeens
now. The Profs get a cut in their
salary while mine gets raised. I
must be a valuable asset. Now
perhaps I shall buy myself a new
Char, or perhaps I shall buy two.
Ah the rich shall remain so, and
the Phur who work on the Rag
should walk down to Makkurdy’s
Print—why should the Phur ride?

8. Others then arose and asked
for large sums, and they were grant
7 ed with no argument. The learned
- Counsel had raged all wrath on the

Little Whallings, and they had
‘shown who was Boss. But the
Gaz bear their

- losses with a smile, for they got no
_ (CONTINUED ON PAGE SIX)

ht hundred Bhucks less to spend]

 

Official Student Publication

Prof. Stewart
Gives Advice

Before an attentive assembly of
freshmen and freshettes gathered in
Room 3 of the Arts Building, Dr.
H. L. Stewart, head of the Department of Philosophy, gave welcome
enlightenment to these newcomers
to Dalhousie on the appropriate
question of “Why Go to College?”
Thursday last.

Dr. Stewart started in a_ semihumorous vein, but quickly became
very serious about the subject, stating that the all-important reason
for entering college was for sharpening of the intellectual powers in
order to be equipped to face the
problems of life. Many think- that
young people go to college either
for the pursuit of pleasure, or for
a professional training. The real
reason is that students come for the
development of their mental faculties,

He greatly regretted several
things which he had and had not
done during his college career, and
deplored the cramming at present
rampant among college students.

Dr. Stewart interspersed his advice with some anecdotes which
greatly appealed to the students,
who heartily applauded him at the
conclusion of his speech. Gordon
Thompson was the Chairman.

Something
To Think About

Registration in the University of

 

 

     
     

‘Western Ontario has increased 200

this year; good authority suggests
that registration at Mt. Allison and
Aeadia has gone up this year also.

Registration at Dalhousie’ has
‘dropped 80. What is wrong with
Dalhousie?

 

{

Sean O’Casey the upstart dramatist who changed his profession from
plumber to noted playwright, is now
in New York directing his play,
“Within the Gates”. Several of his
plays are to be found in the Dalhousie Book Club and are worthy of
the attention of every student.

 

The old woman who lived in the
shoe at least could boast that her
sole was her own.

 

Maybe the forthcoming budget
will be able to explain why the
“Gazette’ Association should be cut
approximately $300.00, which is certainly more than 20%.

 

There are unfortunately serious
signs of trouble in the Saar Valley
before and after the coming plebiscite of Jan. 13, 1935. Geneva has
been informed that 16,000 Germans
residing in the Saar are receiving
military training in Germany to
equip them to act at the plebiscite.
The Saar Commission has ordered
the German front to cease its operations. Meanwhile the Nazi leader
is leaving no stone unturned in his
determination to win the territory
for Germany. It looks like one
European volcano is about to erupt.

Shirreff Hall Notes

The first meeting of the Shirreff
Hall Self Governing Association for
this term was held on Monday at
1.30 o’clock.

Several matters of importance
were decided, including the choice
of two new members for the House
Committee. Betty Miller now represents the Junior Class, in place of
May Burgess, who is not back this
year, and Kay Finlayson of Ottawa
was chosen Freshette representative.

By the way, boys, the Shireff Hall
dance is coming off on November
14th.


 

  

  

ALHOUSIE

a

 

 

 

HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA, OCTOBER 25, 1934

 

OLLEGE LIFE |

| COLLEGE LIFE

Engineering Notes

The first meeting of the Engineering Society was held on Oct.
12, in room 51 with President Bent
in the chair. After the presentation
of the financal statement by E. B.
Smith, secretary-treasurer of the
Society, an election was held for
the purpose of selecting a football
manager, Walter Wood being the
lucky one. It was decided to accept the Commerce Society’s offer
of having one football team to represent both societies.

Prospects of a trip for third
year engineers were discussed;
auong trips discussed were a tour
of the Dockyards, the new sheds at
Pier B, or a journey to Liverpool
to look over the Mersey Pulp and
Paper Company’s plant.

There being no further business,
the meeting was adjourned.

Professor Speaks

COMPULSORY ATHLETICS
To the Editor:

Dear Sir,—Don’t you think that
the comparison you draw in your
editorial of October 18 between
“compulsory gum chewing” and
compulsory physical training is a
trifle far-fetched? Might it not be

|the part of wisdom to wait and see

how far the new regime is really
felt to be compulsory by the freshmen and freshettes ?

In almost every issue of the
“Gazette” somebody has something
to say about “lack of Dalhousie
spirit”. If the improved turn-out
for the Track and Field Day last
Thursday are any indication that
this intangible Dalhousie spirit is
about to rise from the grave, let
us be patient and give those a fair
chance who are striving to revive it.

Incidentally, you might have mentioned that this so-called ‘“compulsory” scheme of athletics and physical training has been approved by
the combined Senate and Students’
Gymnasium Committees.

“The farcical aspect of the matter
is its enforcement,” you say. Well,

Sorority Notes

Last week was Sorority rushing
week at Dalhousie, and sophomores
on the campus have been swept off
their frisky feet.

The Sigma Thetas started things
with a tea at Merle Purtill’s on Sunday afternoon. They also entertained their rushees at a dance on
Friday evening.

Kappa Beta Phi held a tea on
Tuesday afternoon at the home of
Kathleen Black. Their evening affair took the form of o dance at
Ashburn on Thursday night.

The members of the Alpha Gamma
Delta fraternity had two evening
parties, a formal dance at Ashburn
on Monday, and a progressive dinner party on Wednesday night.

Law Society
Hold Meeting

On Monday, Oct. 22nd, the Law
Society of Dalhousie met for the
purpose of finalizing plans for the
Annual Law Dance. The motion of
Don Ross that the dance be held
under the auspices of the society,
which constituted a revocation of
the decision of the previous meeting that no dance be held, was carried unanimously.

It was further decided that the
dance be held on Noy. 8th at the
Nova Scotian Hotel, with Jerry
Naugler’s orchestra in attendance.
The prices will be as in former
years, $3.00 per couple, including
supper for those outside the society,
and $2.00 for paid-up members of
the society. Arrangements for the
dance are in the hands of a social
committee composed of Roland MacIntyre and Ted Byrne.

Frosh Show
Date Close

Wednesday, October 30, has been

it is liable to become a farce if the| picked out as the evening on which
“Gazette” is determined to condemn|the Freshmen of Dalhousie will enthe scheme before it has been tried|tertain their senior brethren for a
[few hours at the Gymnasium. An

out.
C. H. MERCER,
Chairman Senate Gymnasium Com.
October 19, 1934,

Senior Class Meeting

Class ’85 held their first meeting
of the term on Tuesday at twelve
o’clock in Room 2, Arts Building.

Milton Murgrave, who so skilfully °
guided the destinies of the Juniors

last year, presided again.

The minutes of the Spring meeting were read by Edith Nelson, the
Secretary.

On hearing the report of the
Treasurer, Hal Johnson, it was
found that the Seniors have some
thirty smackers in the Bank. Nice
going, after the financial difficulties
of last year.

Some time was lost in searching
for one dollar which had mysteriously disappeared from the books.
Whispered accusations of grand larceny stole about the room.

However, before feeling became
too acute, the suave and tactful officers of the class had diverted the
attention of the members by suggesting a Class party, to be held in
conjunction with the Juniors, during the week of November 19th.

Further business included the election of two debaters to represent
the Senior Class in the Bennett
Shield Competition. Florence Keniston and Eddie Arab were chosen.

The meeting closed with an appeal by the President for contributions to Community Chest.

   

enjoyable program has been arranged by Joseph Connolly and his associates, and everyone is guaranteed
at least one laugh a minute.

The Frosh have been practising
hard for the past few weeks, and
are now in their final stretch.
Special lighting effects, and plenty
of pep will feature the show, and a
bumper house is expected to be
present.

At eight o’clock, Wednesday evening, October 30. See you there.

Meeting of The
Dental Society

At a meeting of the Dental Society
held last week, Jake Cohen, Senior
Dental student, was elected as the
representative of Dentistry to the
Students’ Council, in place of Lloyd
Layton, who has not returned this
year.

The following were then elected
as officers of the Dental Society:

Kenneth Cougle, President.

Louis Figman, Vice-President.

Albert Sloane, Secretary-Treas.

 

 

NOTICE
DELTA GAMMA TEA DANCE
Delta Gamma will hold its
Annual Tea Dance at Shireff
Hall November 3. The proceeds
will go toward the Community

Chest. It is hoped that the
girls will respond as generously as in previous years.

GAZETTE

at Dalhousie University

 

 

No. 4

English Debating Team

Defeats

Dalhousie Duo

An unusually large audience gathered in the Gymnasium
last Tuesday evening to witness what proved to be one of the
most interesting debates presented in many years at Dalhousie.
The great interest taken proves beyond all doubt that debating
ranks on a par with any other university activity. Mr. Dougall
Maegillivray presided as chairman and in his inimitable manner introduced the speakers of the respective teams.

Medical Society Notes

On Monday evening, Oct. 15, at
the Public Health Centre, Medical
Students and others were shown
several motion picture films, under
the auspices of the Dalhousie Medical Society. These films were:

1.—“The Science and Art of Obstetrics”, by J. B. DeLee, of Chicago.
This film was demonstrated by Dr.
Kirk Maclellan.

.—‘Appendectomy”’.

3.—‘Colle’s fracture”.

These last two films were commented upon by Dr. Arnold Noble.

On Thursday evening, Oct. 18, the
Medical Society held a Smoker in
the Public Health Centre. A short
business meeting preceded. Among
other things decided upon by this
meeting there was passed a motion,
whereby members of the Society be
presented with membership tickets.
These tickets must be presented by
the owner, before he is admitted to
any meeting or lecture held under
the auspices of the Society. Students
from other faculties will be rigidly
excluded. .

Dr. Grant, Dean of the Faculty of
Medicine, was thce first speaker of
the evening. He gave the Society
many useful suggestions and the assurance of his support.

Dr. Jack Merritt, a graduate member of the Society, and one of its
past presidents, interpreted various
sections of the Constitution. He
also told present members how the
Society was carried on in past years
and of some of the benefits obtained
by the Society for the students.

Dr. Ralph Smith gave a very interesting summary of the progress
of Pathology to its place as the
King of Sciences. He emphasized
its fundamental importance to Medical Students, graduate and undergraduate,

Professor Bean, the closing speaker, voiced his support of the Society
and gave assurance of his help to
the members with their problems.

A vote of thanks was passed to
the speakers for their attendance
and part in a very successful evening. .

On a motion the meeting adjourned and the members wended their
way homeward, full of apples and
cigarette smoke.

 

The Medical Society has as its
members practically all students of
the first four years in Medicine.
Everything is pointing towards a
very successful year for the Society.

 

Congratulations to Medicine’s
Track Team on winning the Interfaculty Track Meet!

Now, you footballers! Let’s see
some action from you, too!

Medicine played a scoreless tie
against Law Saturday, with eleven
players. We want a full team out
for the next game—rain or shine!

 

“Prez” Wigmore can sure take it!
His defiance of the elements last
Saturday afternoon was. admirable.
Still—who would do otherwise in
like circumstances ?

Second year Medicine has, however, a member who can’t take it.
Ask Alee about the cigar that “got
him down”, at the fights the other
night.

 

We are glad to see Irving Krebs

ihas now

Mr. Crighton, leader of the affirmative, heartily thanked Haligonians for the warm welcome accorded them. He based his argument on two grounds: first, that
Fascism was both the result and
cause of international anarchy; and
secondly that it denied the “greatest
benefit of mankind,” namely liberty.
He then went on and sketched briefly the history of Fascism and pointed how it grew out of the chaos
which the Great War left behind. It
grown to the extent, he
submitted, that the policy of Facism
is the direct antithisis of internationalism and of the League of Nations.

Dugall Sutherland opened the debate for Dalhousie, welcoming the
visitors to our shores and wishing
them a pleasant journey throughout
Canada. After he had rebutted
several of Mr. Crighton’s arguments, he set out many reasons why
Fascism should be supported, the
principal ones being that Fascism
stood for authority, strength, unity
and responsibility. He did not suggest that Fascism was an ideal state
of government, but that it is applicable in certain countries and can be
very beneficially adopted where circumstances admit.

Mr. Jackson saw in Fascism the
set-back of Democracy, just when
Democracy was beginning to take
effect. He pointed out very clearly
that the dictators effectively silenced
the poor man by denouncing the
rich, but still gave the rich many
privileges so that he might be able
to have the use of his capital. The
result of this has been practically
complete capitalistic monopoly,which
means of course the crushing of the
poor. He showed where salaries,
railway carriage, and many other
means of prosperity had decreased
immensely, while the national
deficit is increasing yearly. And
still Mussolini announces an _ increased expenditure on armaments,
urging as his excuse the fact that
“war is a necessity to a great
nation.”

Harrison Cleveland was the final
speaker for Dalhousie. He enlarged
the principles expounded by his colleague. He attempted to prove that
Hitlerism must be distinguished
from Fascism, and that in order to
argue the basic principles or benefits of Fascism one must resort ta
the teachings of its founder, II Duce,
which in fact are the only true
forms of Fascism today. Mr. Cleveland then pointed out that Italy
was a staunch supporter of the
League of Nations, and that Mussolini’s acts are friendly and in the
interests of peace.

The leader of the affirmative then
in a brief but destructive rebuttal
pointed out the fallacies in the arguments of his opponents, and
closed with the words, “we do not
ask you to vote for the motion, we
dare you to vote against it.”

An audience vote was taken, and
the result of the ballot gave the
visitors a victory.
eta de oe A

The next meeting of the Medical
Society will probably be on Nov. 5th,
when the members will be addressed’
by Dr. Routley, Secretary to the
Canadian Medical Association. He
has as a subject for his address, a
topic packed full of interest for

back at work again, after his illness. every Medical Student. Don’t miss it!

 
    
    
   

   
 

Founded 1869. “The Oldest College Paper in America”

PORTAL STAFF

 

errors F. E. GOUDGE
J. R. A. Ye "RB. 6295
are ts pe ; News Editor
i a ARTHUR MERKEL
Eos B. 5108
F Literary Editor Sports Editor
ao B. 5827 B. 4384
Pe | Business Manager Assistant
ee 3 ARTHUR MEAGHER
_ ©. D, WALLACE, ROWLINGS ey

 

 

ce THE IMPERIAL DEBATE

| ent of importance which occurred this week was the
pe ‘pir Penkte in tvhich British Debaters met the Dalhousie
ee team of Cleveland and Sutherland in a matching of argumen. tative skill. This visit of the British debate team was made
possible through the action of the N. F. C. U. 8. (National Federation of Canadian University Students). The Federation deserves unlimited praise for the good work it has been doing
along such lines since its inauguration. It has been directly responsible for a closer association of feeling between British
and Canadian University Life as well as a clearer and greater
understanding among Colleges in Canada, all of which is highly
desirable. :
An exchange of ideas means a broadening of one’s outlook
5 on life, ultimately leading to greater understanding and
| achievement away from home. It is only through comparing
our system with that of our neighbours, by exchanging views
| and methods, that we allow for an elimination of the weaknesses of our systems and for the development of strength
already existing. The Federation has arranged for many exchange scholarships throughout Canada, thereby giving an
ay opportunity to students to discover from first hand how the
Seniors, Juniors and Sophomores differ from those of other
Universities, always a subject for speculation.
There is a lamentable tendency among student bodies to
regard their University as being at the zenith of educational
achievement. We do not mean to infer that a belief and trust
in the traditions and attainment of one’s University is not to
be admired, but when there is an intolerance of other systems
—sOr': a Warped narrow-mindedness, that is to be deplored| The
N. F. C. U.S. is doing its utmost to break down this tendency
_ toward a one university-track mind and substitute an interUniversity spirit with a common interest and understanding.
The British Colleges can no doubt teach us much, as many of
our educational centers have already been modelled along their
_  -jines. The N. F. C. U.S. is fulfilling its place admirably in
arranging for such an event as the Imperial Debate.

wis

 

2” ON THE PURCHASE OF BOOKS

eae There is a quiet, pleasant feeling in anyone who has just
: purchased a book. The emotion is not easy to describe; it is
caused partly in anticipation of reading the book, partly in
mere pride, for some people enjoy buying books though they
have no intention of ever reading them, and perhaps another
cause is mere desire to show and boast of one’s collection. But
whatever its cause, there is definitely a feeling which, once
felt, sets one to buying books more and more. /

, The feeling is not always found in buying an ordinary
book (though here it has become perverted) as when it is only
sensed on the purchase of a rare old volume, a first edition, a
book autographed by a now dead author, or a finely bound
leather and gold gem as is the pride of the French experts. But
people who buy books for these reasons alone do not buy really
for the pleasant feeling—it has become a passion with them.
The truly proportionate buyer is the one who seeks for what
the book contains, the author’s text. (He will not, however,
refuse a beautiful old copy or a first edition in preference to a
cheaper publication, as by Everyman’s; he merely refuses to
pay out a large sum for the pleasure of getting it when for the
same amount he can obtain others).

The book shop is the happy hunting ground of the buyer,
for there is all the difference imaginable in buying a book after
F turning it over and perusing it, and in ordering it from a catalogue. Anticipation of feeling is almost as delicious as the
| feeling itself, and to go into a shop, with shelves piled high, is

itself a pleasure. Book-buying is a serious business, and for
that reason there should be a sortwf reverent silence in every
good book shop. Book shops hidden away in a corner of a great
department store lack this essential feature. Though the books
may be sold cheaply, bookish atmosphere is lacking. It is impossible to appreciate an old volume, to scan over it, when elseae where on the floor a cash register is ringing, or elevator doors

bang. For complete atmosphere, no shop is better than the
second-hand dealer’s. His books have all been loved by some| one previously (though the love has apparently died), and this
| alone is a recommendation. Second-hand shops have a pe| culiarly musty smell, and generally some curious old volumes.
| Prices are low and one comes out with three or four for the
|
|

Tit

as. price one would pay for a new book. And dealers in second
i: hand shops are somewhat very excellent fellows, much more
human and less efficient than clerks in ordinary shops. These

. are the things that make atmosphere.

| The final pleasure of buying a book is Signing one’s name

Sy on the flyleaf; afterwards, the pleasure is wholly in owning.

ae | LITERARY SUPPLEMENT

A college publication such as the Dalhousie “Gazette” must
serve a dual purpose—first as a medium for conveying news to
the students and secondly as a means of encouraging attempts
along literary lines in whatever shape or form it may be. In
an effort to unearth and stimulate contributions of a literary

nature the “Gazette” will publish a Literary Supplement, just
ss a8: Soon as contributions accumulate sufficiently to warrant it.
es We hope this will serve to il'ustrate the fact that the “Gazette”

 

is not merely a newspaper.

DALHOUSIE

   

GAZETTE

SACRIFICE

A Short, Short Story.

calmly preparing man at the other
end of the ring. He know that thousands of disappointed lovers could
only dream of such an opportunity,
to get their successful rival in a

“The Moving Finger writes, and,
having writ, Moves on.”
—Omar Khayyam.

 

ATHLETICS AND BRAWN

Buddy knew he should hate the | lights.

The brief instructions were over.
The fighters tossed off their robes,
their powerful shoulders glistened
in the blinding glare of the are
A moment of silence and
then the shattering gong—Round 1.

The champion stepped out swiftly,
his opponent advanced slowly but
well guarded. They circled, looking
for openings. Suddenly the champ

October 25, 1934

Are We Educated?

There is very little doubt about it
—Dal is a swell college. Our athletes
are good; our college spirit is good;
our co-eds leave nothing to be desired. The one defect is that the
graduates, as a group, arenot educated.

As, however, this is the case in

 

 

 

Lincoln Steffens records in his
“Autobiography” the advice given
him by some Oxford and Cambridge
graduates who had been exiled to
California by lung troubles. They
had developed muscles and lungs
unneeded and impossible to maintain
in the sedentary occupations into
which their scholarship put them.
“Keep out of college athletics,” they
advised. “Don’t work up any more
brawn than you can use every day
afterward.” The truth of this advice physiologically is perhaps unquestionable, and the extent is applicable, even if true, to Dalhousians
is probably slight. We fear that the
number of our  fellow-students
threatened now in the future with
the fate of these Englishmen is
only too small. The great danger
of too much concentration on athletics is not this, but the missing of
opportunities for full development.
Sport has its place on the college
menu, but don’t be too greedy in
partaking of it.

WE WANT SOMETHING MORE
ORIGINAL

We would like to quote the following, which seems to us excellent,
from Steffens’ “Autobiography”. (It
is in the Library):

“Nothing is done. Everything in
the world remains to be done or
to be done over. The greatest picture is not yet painted, the greatest
play isn’t written (not even by
Shakespeare), the greatest poem is
unsung. There isn’t in all the world

a perfect railroad, nor a good gov
ernment, nor a sound law. Physics,
mathematics, and especially the
most advanced and exact of the sciences, are being fundamentally revised. Chemistry is just becoming
a science; psychology, economics
and sociology are awaiting a Darwin, whose work in turn is awaiting
an Einstein. If the rah-rah boys in
our colleges could be told this, they
might not all be such specialists in
football, petting parties, and unearned degrees. They are not told
it, however; they are told to learn
what is known. There is nothing
philosophically speaking.”

IDEALS

It appears inevitable that man,
whether individually or collectively,
should find himself unable to live
without ideals, be they high or low,
vague or clear.

Consciously or unconsciously he
works toward some end; and when
at last he find® it almost close at
hand, it glides into the distance
again, as unattainable as ever. For
success of the highest character,
these ideals must be lofty, pure and
persistently followed through apparent failure or apparent success.
There is no place like college for
ideals and visions and it is through
such ideals and imaginations that
one keeps a high standard of character.

Love of college and of country
necessarily follow this high standard
of character. “Act, act in the living
present!”—for as Emerson says:
“That you are stands over you the
while and thunders so that I can not
hear what you say to the contrary.”

AUTUMN RAMBLING

Don’t you feel it too at this time
of year, the beautiful Indian-summer—that almost unconquerable desire to go to the woods—to escape
books, befogging lectures, and futile
problems, and get back to the real
things,—cooking a nice juicy steak
under the open sky after a long,
rambling walk through blazing red,
yellow, and russet foliage with the
erisp crackling of autumn leaves
underfoot for accompaniment. There
is no tonic like that of the fresh air.
So if you have never undergone this
delightful experience, whistle to
your dog, put some food in your
pocket, and get going to the swish,
swish, swish of those leaves. And

how you can dig into the work on
returning!

BE PREPARED
How can one prepare himself for
college? We advance three funda
  
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
   
  
  

ring and know they could joyfully
smash him into temporary oblivion.
And to get paid for it at that! Yet
Buddy also knew that he must make
a sacrifice for the man he _ should
hate. He had an undefinable but
nevertheless compelling urge that
his own success must be tossed aside
in order that his opponent should
step into his shoes. It was with an
irritated movement that he slowly
rubbed his shoes over the rosin. At
the moment of his big fight and this
other battle between his reason and
emotion had to arise to irritate and
confuse him. Pop Warner was worried at his protege’s behaviour. He
kept the seconds continually moving
around his charge so that the challenger could not note the lack of
confidence in the champ.

The announcer had entered the
ring and with his short, thick, upraised arms was bidding silence,
And still Buddy had not settled the
turmoil within him.

“T can easily knock him out,” Buddy
mused, “but then Jean, what will become of her? Jean, for whom, I
always promised I would do any
thing. Jean the wife of a secondrate prize fighter, all by my doing.
Yet she turned me down for him, so
why shouldn’t I finish him?”

The deep intonations of the annnouncer lugubriously resounded
through the dense haze of the arena.

“Ladies and gentlemen, the final
fight tonight is for the welterweight
championship of the world.” The
announcer paused to gasp for breath.
His emphatically accented final ‘d”
had re-echoed back to the ring from
the dim outline of the packed rush
seats, barely perceptible as a faraway mountain in afog. Before he
took a deep breath and continued:
“In this corner, Buddy Arlington,
the world’s cham ”. His final
words were lost in the uproarious
din of applause.

Pausing patiently he pointed to
the opposite corner and continued:
“In this corner the challenger—
Battling Johnson. ” A _heavy-set,
serious young man bowed clumlsy
to the polite applause.

Buddy Arlington raised his hand
indifferently to allow his seconds to
slip on the thin glove. He seemed
disinterested in the proceeding, a
puzzled scowl overshadowed his
usually self-confident appearance.
Pop Warner appeared solicitous as
he bent over his young charge to
give his final instructions.

“What’s wrong, kid? I’d_ say
you were nervous only you have
fought better men than that clumsy
polooka and knew you would win
all the time. Cripes, kid, the other
day I bawled you out for being over
confident and here you are tonight
looking as though you’d have to
fight to win this scrap.”

“O, ’'m O.K.,” Arlington answered
in an annoyed tone. Pop Warner
knew enough to leave the youth
alone and he consequently busied
himself in adjusting the champion’s
bathrobe as they strode to the centre of the ring for the referee’s in
structions.
EEE

mentals. First, there should be a
certain amount of mental training.
The student should be able to think
for himself and not depend upon
others.

Side by side with mental development is physical development. Good
health is a requisite for one who is
not strong, cannot do the work.

Moreover, moral preparations is an
essential. The student should know
how to lead a good, clean, moral life.
He should know right from wrong
and act accordingly. As Longfellow
wrote: “Life is real, life is earnest.”

 

DEPLORABLE ATHLETIC
CONDITIONS

It is a sad state of affairs when
men on Senior teams are at a loss
to know whether or not they are
participating until the last moment.
This is certainly not fair to those
who give up a great deal to aid
Dal’s cause on the football field. We
would like to see a stop to such
a condition repeating itself, Remember every one official has his par
ticular duty to do. “Know thy work
and do it.”

 

‘shot a series of rapid-like left jabs
that caused the challenger’s head to
bob back and forth like a punching
bag.

The angry challenger swung an
angry right. The champion gracefully weaved under it, a faint smile
of scorn on his face, and countered
with a short, vicious right hook to
the body that caused the challenger
to heave and tremble.

It was the end of the first round.
The challenger was bleeding and
dazed. The crowd, sensing the kill,
were standing up and crowding the
ring. The champion shook himself
and smiled. Arlington had finally
made up his mind. He rested easily
and at the bell sprang quickly out
of his corner. The crowd gasped
with excitement. The .challenger
moved slowly and then swung a
long right that could be seen moving up in the fifty cent bleachers.
But suddenly the champion did an
unbelievable thing. He deliberately
and almost nonchalantly walked into the punch. There was a brief
second of agonized uncertainty, then
the sharp, clear report of the impact. The champion, driven by the
force of a hundred and sixty pounds
of bone and muscle impelled by an
enraged will, pitched backward unconscious.

Half an hour afterwards Pop
Warner was rubbing down the dazed
but practically recovered ex-champion. A knock was heard on the
door of the dressing room. Pop
had gruffily bid the knocker to enter when Battling Johnson entered
the room, embarrassment blending
with the perpetual bewilderment of
his features.

“How yo feelin’, kid?”

“O. K.,” Buddy replied, smiling
faintly. Johnson shuffled about unee not knowing what to say or
0.

Suddenly Buddy raised himself almost upright and asked: “Johnson,
how—how is Jean?”

“Oh, Jean,” Johnson answered almoste heerfully at this outlet from
embarrassing silence. “Oh, she and
me—well—we broke up about a
month ago. She married a vaudeville actor. Said she never liked
fighters, any way.”

most universities, I don’t think the
college system is greatly to be
blamed. It is the fault of the students. Professor Wilson quoted a
Dean (I believe) of Harvard as saying, “Students came here to get a
B.A. and avoid an education,”

The average student is, after say
three years of college, totally unable to correlate his knowledge. And
correlation of knowledge is, after
all, education. Our average student
has studied Political Science and
Biology, and yet believes that a
Communist is a grave danger to society, and that Birth Control is a
sin against God and man.

Of course, were there real opinions, based on thought, they would
be quite worthy. The trouble is,
they are mere habits of mind, gained from the press and the pulpit,
and never closely investigated.

The student mind is in two divisions, and the student apparently
does his best to keep these definitely
separate. On one side is stored up
a certain amount of what has been
studied and memorized: Political
Science, Biology, Theology. On the
other side is the life and thoughts
of the individual. And never the
twain shall meet. For the student
allows only the minimum of knowledge to influence his actions and
beliefs.

Goldsmith said, “ Knowledge
comes, but wisdom lingers.” But
wisdom does not linger in stagnant
pools of mind. There must be the
agitation of thought—conscious, personal thought. So many students
are afflicted with a supreme unconsciousness of the world. They
take for granted all these institutions and customs with the attitude,
“I don’t know, and anyway, what
do I care?”

The
Canterbury Room

While students were at
home during the summer

The Green Lantern made

 

   

a decided change in dec
    

PHONES
B-7376 B-9644

HALIFAX TAXI

24 Hour Service
Rate for Students 25c

Room. Cosy and very

nice,

 

orating The Canterbury

The Green Lantern

 

 

 

 

 


SHANE’S FOR SMART HATS

    
   
     
     
   
    
     
   
   

  

HATS-
in the collegiate manner

Smart headwear chosen particularly for
College men.

 

New darker shades
entirely different in style and color from hats
of other seasons.

 

  

The BROCK is priced at
The HORTON at

 

A New Stiff Hat by CHRISTY
in the smart smaller shape.

Shane’s Men’s Shop

30 Spring Garden Road

 

DISCOUNT OF 10% TO DAL STUDENTS

 
     
 

“Tigers
Bae Met
wing article is intended

ae ae a little information about
ach member of the ‘Tigers Football

  

Doe Tanton, captain and forward,
has played eleven years senior footpall, five years with the Tigers, the
! rest with Mount A. and the Abe7 % a weits. Stands about six feet tall
and has 185 pounds to throw about.
With his graduation Dal loses a fine
captain and forward. Familiarly
called Jerry.

x -« *

Don Ross, forward, who weighs
By 190 and towers 6 feet 2 inches. His
ability to boot the oval is a result

of his playing Canadian Football
-_ while in Toronto. Those who know
say he is as good a lawyer as he is
a kicker. Graduation in the spring
loses him to the Tigers.
Te

D. Crease, outside half (flying
quarter, I hope Mac misses this).
Learned game at Horton, then increased his knowledge under Kelly
at Acadia. Has played two years
Yi varsity. Height 5 feet 9 inches, and
has 160 pounds with it. Another
lawyer, also plays basketball.

* * &

¢ Stoddard, scrum half, learned
_ the game at Bloomfield with Thompson with whom he has played for
eight years. His brother, on the
“ Reds team, disputes his recognition
as the “leagues best tackler.” Oh,
well let the brothers fight it out. Is
a potential Doc and has 5 feet 8
inches and 135 pounds to help him.
* + *

Thompson (Georgie) wing, threequarter, the other half of the Stoddard-Thompson combine which started at Bloomfield but George takes
his 5 feet 10 inches and 170 pounds

. to the Law School, I wonder if the
partners plan to keep in in pro life?
Has has his picture in the paper
| oftener than anyone in college exad Gr > eet the President. _

a.

“ x * *

a tie
1

Doug Bent, forward, hs years
ee | Rothesay and one at Kings is the
hae i eererree for his four years on

at a vet the Varsity, also his 5 feet 8 inches

= th _and 170 pounds helped a lot. Is an

‘ _ Engineer and is famous for his abil
pas at ay ‘to be in every wild scrum also

for his blonde (and how) hair. Also

, plays hockey. Loves to dump Reds.

* * *

a Percy Sheppard, forward, his prospecting in his native Newfoundland
during the summer has helped him
stay four years on the Varsity also
two years on the Memorial College
team as well as 6 feet 1 inch and
199 pounds (Manager Proctor is responsible for the 199) aided not a

oe
- r

little. Is a Science students with a
leaning for rocks and Douglas’
classes.

* %*

Jack Buckley, center, three-quarter, probably the best known player
on the Tigers team, has played for
Dal three years, Wanderers, Acadia,
Montreal and points east and west.
Is a Lawyer and uses a little roadster to transport his 5 feet 7 inches
and 160 pounds to and from the Forrest Building.

Bs * H

Jim Crosby (not Bing) centre
three-quarter, another who came to
the Tigers via Kings and Rothesay.

Is 5 feet 11 inches and weighs 165
. pounds. Is one of the most dependable men on the team, had the job
of marking Cotter Saturday and did
it well. Is an Arts student.

* kk -*
Jack Worrell, F. B., another Kings' man in Medicine, his 6 feet 1 inch
a and 160 pounds make him a good
man for his position which he fills
in a capable manner. Is a brand
new Benedict, and is playing his

first year on the varsity.

a eS OS
Manning (Bud) Peters, forward,
playing his second year on the Varsity, he brings the Medical roll to
three. He is 5 feet 8 inches tall
‘ and weighs 168 pounds. As a fores ward he is an awful scourge to opa ponents especially when trying to
get a kick away, always follows up.

j * + *
ia Vie Kyte, wing three-quarter,
pe second year on the team, with the
“2 exception of H. Ross is about the
fastest man on the team. Comes
Ko from Cape Breton and is proud of
ay e is varsity goalie where his
8 inches and 160 pounds

“THEATRE NIGHT
FOR GLEE CLUB

Many reasons and remedies have
been suggested for the now almost
traditional lack of college spirit at
Dalhousie, but few, if any, tangible
results can be noted. There was a
time, so ’tis said, when a football
game was an event, a time when
practically the whole student body
turned out to support its team. In
this same dim past, a Glee Club
night meant a get-together for all,
and Sodales debaters faced capacity
audiences. The Gloom Spreaders
wail in the jingo of modern advertising, “them days is gone forever,”
and leave it at that. They seems to
overlook the fact that the spirit of
the student body as a whole is governed by the spirit of its individual
members, and not by some mysterious foreign power. President Stanley, in his address to the assembled
students recently, expressed the
wish to see some evidence on the
campus of that light, carefree spirit
supposedly characteristic of the college student, and the return to mental and material prosperity. Surely
such a decree of the President should
not be difficult to obey.

Why not a Dal theatre night?
Not merely one so-called by the
manager of one of the city’s theatres,
but an organized theatre party for
all students and members of the faculty. In all probability, any theatre
manager would welcome the suggestion and would arrange special rates
for the evening. This would give
the students an opportunity to have
a real get-together, to shout Dalhousie’s cheers and sing her songs,
not to mention the screen entertainment. Such theatre nights have been
made successful at Dalhousie and the
practice was discontinued mainly because of the rowdyissm and perverted sense of humor of a few. Today, however, the student is perhaps
more sophisticated and more able to
appreciate a privilege than in those
mythical good old days.

Apart from any attempt to arouse
the dormant spirit of the campus, a

theatre night would give the student

opportunity to become acquainted
with the human side of his professor’s nature the existence of which
is frequently doubted.

The Sophomore class recently en-|

tertained the Freshmen and Freshettes at a theatre party and proved
the feasibility of the scheme; why
not try it on a larger scale embracing the whole university ?

LIMERICKS

There was a young Frosh, I remember,
Who came to Dal in September;
He ran round like hell
And all seemed to go well,
But they plucked the poor nut in
December.

 

There was a Freshette at Dalhousie
Who came to class, unkempt and
frowsy,
When the Prof. asked why,
She replied with a sign,
“T can’t wash, it’s so late when they
rouse me.”

Alani ctr atcstbatitielligteesinipntinrbnsioepripaninisanentonnc
make him a good one. He is a Commerce student.

a * *

Henry Ross, H. C. A. man, wing
three-quarters, shares with Cotter
the distinction of being the fastest
man in the league, holds many Maritime records for track. Stands
about 5 feet 8 inches and weighs
about 160. Also manager Varsity
track team.

* * *

Bob Barnstead, forward, playing
his second year senior, has the distinction of being a Dal product, he
never played football before entering college. Is a Medical student
and has the body to make a swell
surgeon being 5 feet 10 inches and
weighs 165 pounds.

* *

Elmer Bauld, another Newfoundlander and engineer, playing his
first year on the varsity. His
6 feet 1 inch and 165 pounds as
well as his ability to smear opponents has the coach of the American
team casting an envious eye in his
direction.

* * *

Neil Ferguson, forward, playing
his second year on the varsity where
Coach Mac regards him as the best
heeler the team has had in years.
He is a Law student and is 5 feet
9 inches and weighs 170 pounds.

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

COMMENT

 

PREMIER BENNETT.

A Grit of the old school told me
the other day that “Mr. Bennett had
better go to the country now because it did not make any difference
as he didn’t have a ghost of a
chance anyway.” I presume that
this is just another of those Liberal
prognostications. Perhaps the result of the recent Federal by-elections has instilled him with a little
over-confidence. Cr again he may
have remembered that Angus Macdonald came in on this supposed
tide of Liberalism with a majority
that even surprised himself. As the
argument closed (peacefully)) he
somewhat sheepishly added, “even if
Mr. Bennett had done some good for
this country, the mass vote of this
blundering Democracy would defeat
him.”

Well, Liberal friend, there are
still several months before Mr. Ben
jnett is forced to go to the electors

and give a record of his stewardship. Much water may pass during
that time. In these days events
transpire quickly. Mr. Bennett is
“nobody’s fool”. On the shelves
(not pigeon holes) at Ottawa there
is much legislation which, when
completed, will not only determine
the destiny of the Conservative
party, but the future of all parties.
The results of the Stevens Commission and The Railway Amalgamation, the Central Bank and Marketing Board will no doubt determine
whether in common with other
countries Canada will forsake the
Laissez Faire of Rugged Individualism, to plunge into the darkness
of a socialist experiment, or whether
she will steer a midway course of
government restrictions and codes.
Who can foresee? Perhaps you
are right, my friend. Maybe this
coming Liberal majority will singlehanded decide these monumental
issues,

Mr. Bennett has been the greatest
Prime Minister since the days of Sir
John A. Macdonald. This seems
like a sweeping statement, but how
different is it from the baseless
Liberal prognostication of my
friend. It is better to base a state
ment on records than speculate

with the future, particularly a
rapidly transpiring future as _we
know it today. Mr. Bennett has
come to Ottawa with a training that no other Prime Minister has ever had. A review of the
great Prime Ministers will reveal
Mr. Bennett’s ability. Sir John A.
Macdonald was a real politician of
the hand-shaking school, inclined
perhaps to cover shady issues. Sir
Wilfred Laurier was an orator and
leader of no equal in this country
He had that faculty of drawing
men to him. Likewise he had the
French population behind him in a
solid block, and coupled with his
genius for leadership he placed
some memorable legislation on the
Statute books. Sir Robert Borden,
although he captained our country
during difficult war years, was
favoured by time. It was really his
hour because his greatest strength
lay in his ability to interpret intelligently the international issues
of the day. In short, he has been
one of our foremost international
statesmen. One can not call him a
politician nor again a great leader.
Sir Robert found his talent in the
great conferenee walls where he
was a pillar of strength.

Mr. Bennett is the most dynamic
and forceful Premier yet reviewed.
His case is different. His early
training has fitted him like no other
man. He was born and schooled in
the political cockpit of Canada’s
sea-girted provinces. The Maritimes
he knew from Halifax to Campbellton. From the famous Law School
he went West. He made his fortune while the West grew. He
knew and saw the prairies from infancy until today. He emerged with
the reputation of the greatest Western lawyer. The Privy Council,
too, had heard this man. Soon his
knowledge of the wheat situation
became evident. So that when Mr.
Bennett arrived in Ottawa, he came
with the knowledge and training of
the East and the experience and
appreciation of the West. What
Premier can boast of this experience? Mr. Bennett, in short, is a
lawyer of note, a proven and hardheaded business man, a financier,
and a statesman with the acumen
and force that dominates his fellow
men. Unlike Macdonald, he is not

a politician. This perhaps is one of
his greatest weaknesses. He lacks
also that faculty of Laurier to draw
men about him. He is too stern
and too much Bennett. He cannot
claim the cool conference-like manner of Borden, nor has he the political theory of King. But he has a
knowledge that no other Premier
ever possessed, a knowledge of the
problems of this country which he
can recall from his finger tips. To
listen to him on the floor of the
House, relate and answer questions
with almost electric precision is to
listen to a genius. This summer in
Ottawa, a former organizer for the
national Liberal party told me,
“Bennett’s knowledge of Canadian
problems is incredible there
never has been a man like him.”

It was Premier Bennett who secured for the primary producers invaluable and ever increasing trade
preferences in the Empire, France
and other countries and ultimately
turned an adverse balance of trade
into a favourable one. It was Bennett, along with Maxim Litvinoff,
who scored the only tangible victory from the London World Conference. This same man conceived,
called and dominated the greatest
trade conference in history at Ottawa in 1931 and emerged with such
sweeping concessions for his own
country that even the traditionally
victorious Englishman wondered if
he had any home left to return to.

Nor must we forget that it was
the Bennett Ministry that eased the
plight of debt burdened farmers,
furnished them with marketing machinery and enhanced their chances
of gain from the profitable working out of the Empire trade treaties.
Some partisan admirers appear to
have overlooked Canada’s deal: The
Marketing Act, the Farm Mortgage
Plan, the Federal Building programme, the plan to transfer a
whole population of drought stricken “westerners” to more fertile districts (a considerable proportion of
some 45,000 families).

Liberal opponents on many public
platforms have accused Mr. Bennett of catering to the rich. Has
he? The Central Bank was placed
on the Statutes after one of the
most rigorous political fights in
Canadian history, in which almost
all the financial moguls of Canada
were united upon one cardinal issue
—the defeat of the motion. The
Stevens Investigation has broken
the sovereignty of the great Canadian business houses, which in
most cases are controlled by the
“rich people”. Has this met with
the approval of the respective owners? Furthermore Mr. Bennett has
said on many occasions that we are
in for more Government interference
in business and not less. Again the
higher incomes have been subjected
to increased taxation. Can my
friend say that Bennett has catered
to the rich? Can he likewise. say
that he has catered to any exclusive
sect or race? Did he not donate a
large set of bells to a Catholic
church in Hamilton? There is a
large majority of Protestants in the
city of Hamilton, but this made no
difference to Mr. Bennett. It was
his own conscience that dictated to
him such a thought. This action
may, politically speaking, hurt Mr.
Bennett, but little does it matter to
a man whose primary purpose is to
serve his country.

L’Evenement, a French-Canadian
newspaper, whose editorials are not
dictated by Conservative owners, in
a recent article on Taschereau and
Bennett, said:

Ses paroles ont révélé la compr éhension et la sympathie d’un
homme public qui ne gouverne
pas le Canada de facon étroite,
mais dont l’esprit comprend les
virtues de tous les Canadiens,
sans égard aleur croyance ou
aleur race.”

Even political admirers of Mr.
Bennett are not blind to the fact
that he has made some blundering
moves. They also recognize that he
lacks the quality of leadership; that
he has been unable to rally the
forces of his own party like Mr.
King; that he has not completely
fulfilled his campaign promises. But
at the same time he has saved the
day for Canada even if it did take
a dominating personality, with the
result that much ill feeling and
partisan antipathy has been aroused.

His record is so admirable that it
(CONTINUED ON PAGE FIVE)

 

s

Study in Mauve

She looked at you with a straight,
unseeing gaze, as if in seeing much,
she saw nothing. She gave the impression of strength, of immeasurable strength, she could endure and
not show that she was enduring.
Yet about here was a frailness.

She lifted her right eyebrow
when she talked; her face had a
hidden beauty—it flashed at you in
a slow gesture, in a slender grimace
of her mouth, in the sweet, quiet
movement of her head. But there
was an incompleteness in her
beauty, as there was a frailness in
her strength. She was often pensive, eyes closed, head thrown back.
Then her hands would spread out,
shut suddenly, and she would look
up. Eyes mirthful, yet somehow
sad, and stretching her thin body,
she would cross to the piano. She
was a musician, a composer. Her
name was Miriman Strong.

Miriman, at thirty, still lived
with her parents in a fashionable
suburb of the city of M— . She
had one brother, George, a pompous, affable “ladies’ doctor”; one
sister, Jean, an active, intensely
alive person, younger by two years
than Miriman, but already possessing a husband and three children.

Mr. Strong was a hard-working
lawyer, with such a plodding, anxious mind that people said of him
that though he always gained his
objective, they were never sure that
he knew how he did it. His wife
was directly complementary to him:
each was slow but eager to grasp
a problem; each read serious and
learned articles with a painful intentness; each quoted passages
from these articles, which passages
they memorized together, sitting
out on either side of the fireplace,
their earnest, dark faces absorbed,
the wife repeating the words after
the husband, the same inflections in
her voice.

In the midst of these energetic,
diligent people, complacent in the
knowledge of their ambition, if not
in the knowledge of their superiority, Miriman lived pleasantly but
aimlessly. Her musical abilities
were not repressed nor scorned, but
were rather urged by her parents
to intense expression. She was
considered by them with the same
delight as a new and erudite treatise,
but with the same trepidation. They
loved her because she was brilliant,
but feared her because she was beyond their understanding.

The very intensity of her parents’
lives—they went from lecture to
lecture, from concert to concert with
the concentrated pleasure you would
play a game of tennis—hindered
Miriman from any real activity of
her own. She watched them rush
from one engagement to another,
not contemptuously, but apathetically. The efforts of her family to
rouse her from this apathy never
penetrated beyond the first layer of
her consciousness. She “looked at
their labor and laughter as a tired
man looks at flies.’

Once, in her twenty-ninth year,
she had given a recital which was
largely attended but which received
no favourable notices. She played
beautifully; her compositions were
brilliant, but as our critic remarked,
“the composer lived life in the
pastel shades.” She left the audience dissatisfied without giving
them any reason for dissatisfaction.
After that, she relapsed into inertness again.

Miriman had no interest in young
men. She felt vaguely that she
should have, and once or twice exerted herself to please them, but
found, as others have found, that it
requires too much effort. Four
years ago she had loved mildly a
young school teacher, a gentle, scholarly man with thin hair and a conciliatory manner. Her parents discouraged his tentative approaches
and she saw him no more. She had
grieved slightly at first; now only
some: faint breath of love in poem
brought back his face to her.

Day after day went by; month
and month; year and year. Miriman
was forty-six. More often now
was the head thrown back, the
eyes closed, and when finally they
opened, were expressionless save
for a meek amiability. Her piano
had been untouched for ten years;
nothing was any longer worth the
trouble of doing. All she desired
was a chair and a window to look
out upon life—a eat curled up on
her knee, she would sit and gaze for
hours upon the crowd on the street,

 

Page Three

The

Poet’s Corner

 

THE PATRIOT

The patriot of by-gone days
Knew but one tribal song,

That chauvinistic, blatant phrase:
“My country, right or wrong.”
The world for him was narrowed to
The land which gave him birth;

No other country, in his view,
Contained one shred of worth.

He loved his father-land alone,
And hated with fierce hate

All lands which differed from his

own

On policies of state.

Not his to know the larger life,
Or visions of the seers;

In bloodshed, ignorance and strife
He lived for countless years.

The patriot of modern times
Is filled with love, not hate;

Does not consider that war’s crimes
Can make a people gréat.

His pride of birth is not confined
To one small tribe or race,

But takes the whole of human-kind
Within its wide embrace.

He knows no low desire or aim
For petty, selfish good:
He sees the beckoning vision flame
Of world-wide brotherhood.
Perceives the basic unity
Beneath man’s upward trend,
The glorious march of destiny
Towards one common end.

Unlawful
Organizations

During the last few months, the
activities of Communists in various
parts of Canada have led to their
prosecution and conviction under
section 98 of the Criminal Code,
which declares that any organization whose purpose is to bring about
political changes by violence, is unlawful. It reads as follows:

Sub-section 1: Any association,
organization, society or corporation,
whose professed purpose or one of
whose purposes is to bring about
any governmental, industrial or economic change within Canada by use
of force, violence or physical injury
to person or property, or by threats
of such injury or which teaches, advocates, advises or defends the use
of force, violence, terrorism, or physical injury to person or property,
or threats of such injury, in order
to accomplish such change, or for
any other purpose, or which shall by
any means prosecute or pursue such
purpose or professed purposes, or
shall so teach, advocate, advise or

defend, shall be unlawful association.

 

Sub-section three provides a maximum punishment of twenty years
for any one who participates in
such organizations.

On at least two occasions a motion to repeal this section has passed the House of Commons, but has
been defeated in the Senate. During the present session Mr. Woodworth, the Labor member from Winnipeg, attempted to bring in a similar bill, but was prevented fro
putting it before the house.

Of course we do not presume to
say that the provision is absolutely
unwise—at least if it is used reasonably, and not as a mere instrument, to try to eradicate Communism, it will probably do no harm.
But a regulation of this nature always raises the question that has
been asked for centuries in connection with free speech: “Is it wiser
to punish or ignore?” Of course if
an organization with revolutionary
intent were to become strong enough
to create any serious trouble and
actually did so it would be punishable under treason or sedition or as
an unlawful assembly.

Of course we are not in sympathy
with the actual use of violence, but
the section in question goes much
further than the mere prohibition of
violence. It prevents a man from
even advocating force even in a case
where his proposals are absolutely
preposterous and of absolutely no

(CONTINUED ON PAGE FIVE)

i

not knowing, nor caring to know,
the story of the people she olisarad
there, but merely content to watch
life, as she had done all her days.

She wore mauve. It rested her,
she said.

 

 

 
  
  
  
    

  
 
   
  
  

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

\NCE SHEET -- COUNCIL OF THE STUDENTS

pir BET DALHOUSIE UNIVERSITY
a | sone $ 1,657.71
on hand na SRR tet CO ky vw babes s 7
RTM: BtOR es 2 oe a). deh ib eck ss sce enccsecccc sec cueacnes ~ "200.00
cste—_ EH. ipgrbion Fe: cn ee ho SE ng 10.60
unts Receivable:
ee Te ey), 5 cS bs Saw iweb cnc oes $ 56.40
-__Less—Reserve for Doubtful PEM Na eS ic wn d'os 25.00
Ree tea ——_—_—__ 31.40
z. Iffice
‘3 ee ce Equipment: ERIE oe iced liewevs eves 135.00
ge eerie cc ceveelaaeee acne. 50.00
— 185,.00
es - i Less—Reserve MICE Ed o's, sc gu 040d ab bie wed swe 31.00 ae
Glee Club Furniture and Fixtures........... oF pete! reat he ee 280.97
g ae Cesmemaesail CT ae a ne, ae 95.97
i 185.00
| $2,238.11
LIABILITIES
Re cing os vee yeg ah seng eee eevgeee eens $2,238.11

   
  
 
   
   
  
   
    
 
 
 
 
  
 

 

é ent b |
a Og ?

 
   
  
  
    
  
  
    
   
  
   
  
 
 
  
 

 

 

‘ J hereby certify that the above Balance Sheet is, in my opinion, a correct statement
of the pe condition of the Council of the above Students.
| (Signed) JAMES M.MacDONALD,

Auditor.

 

Bars RECEIPTS
a Couneil of the Students:
e ee tudent fees (Dalhousie) ee AAD eR he $ ery
af eR aT rk late ela wae OPI oc eek eo :
me aoe "$8,939.14
i: ne  kcily ec hivwhbeenecwe 50.68
ia RMR CO eae .igib by So Fs oc von.w 6 05 esl dnc ou veteeee sss 62.25
MEE RS RC ORIMMTS Ob 6 oon as weeds een ne oh ece sce 25.40
A re PEEPODAVIOOHD OE AMMIAUION . 0). 45 6s. is vs eee a eee eee 25.00 50.40
Aap: my AY Cys
yi. Foot thall—
NRE eo Bg G08 ow «6 ook S96 whoa sk eed'w b dis(areles oni’ sone ye 112.60
etball—
Ces RRR TUN Pee cy hh kh 317.40
City eR OCOTML Gores is ens Gi Cb oat tec ek cae ek 34.90
ey Sale OF EQUIPMENT... 2.6... e ee cece eee eee cece eee 1.00
Marthe 353.30
AD See e AF sa eed a WS ere dV eve G4 ioe ees oe 20.40
Intercollegiate Chapionship poe pe ka lbp hts 6's x 132.00
oe a ee Te ob eye ewe Rte ate: Wis a! 6! oleate W, o. a, B'8 .
pene BRAGS i Be a yf 2 eee 8 a ee
: 4
eared aay: 8 St eee Oh es et a ch lealccucas ~ s229.50
hice Ulta) & EME Ge he SC RROICTR) O10) 9 O. eine M.celiRce 86 wl ole Sich) *) 6) 6k 450 Suelle « sie ee cles 16.10
Pea Me enctine Receipts Wee aR ee Fa ree Sats Ss owl ew e lebwdes i'n 28.00
" . me beague Of Nations—contributions. .... 2.0.0... 0c. e ec cece ee 25.00
“Gazette”
TR UNE et ek oy Sef Sasa al gine 2 iM x cide ccb an ew slere Oe ake ous 819.23
Sales SMG xh dere Ee Not a ae Ce aN y ww clea, ahale Give aun &. 6 188.40
P| E fice Book:
At OGS 00K 90.195 51 cpa con ks dieescdccdeaeressccecvcaseses
Total Receipts, 1933-34:
‘ x mecounis Meceivanie, 1932-33, Paid. .........- 6. ee we ee ee ees Resi Seu Ae Gi elaene sis
“Gazette”:
Pena PIER UIMOTUDUIONG 7. ~ oo. gfe cs ow cae os cs ces culcrk ca accccbecucen
. 2 eo P SM ct peas s ide oly vane Slavs eevee
| EXPENDITURES
Council of the Students:
| MER RT eee ee ee once es se $ 97.42
a Bs Salary—Secretary-Treasurer .............-.ceeceeee 550.00
EERE Se BOR pie lees ccc sande Sv erdecace 25.00
A NR RSE Pie et es ac Wane vk x wba eal dlele e catlen 26.26
SUE SAMIONL NGWSDADCLS 6 0. ick ce ec eevee Lacees 31.95
eee unre Day Expense... ...........+.- Pe Sa Wares 'e aya a 202.20
IST 0) a 35.00
Bea Meaicoin: Honor Expense... i.e cee cee nen 21.32
ia empenses, Freshman Welcome. ...............00.005. 38.99
_ Presentations and Remembrances................... 12.00
MAM ORIUIY PCC Fo ek ee ce wane sane ved cwecen 100.00
| y, PRT ENEY FURUPOMIOO 6. kk es tina died clcaetiecncecas ge 27.00
‘Telephone, Postage, Telegraph and Exchange......... 120.41
MENG MLC TRAD IESDCNSE Lo os sn cn ccc cs sch ue deweecen 51.75
“a an Office a TN es bw as 53.91
\. F c. U. S.: .
ETN ihn ark oe Hs ak o's da ildc cc'evg wow « $76.50
_ Affiliation PMR ON ee ec? ya's ais cus 4 25.00
i aie ct . pense OE ENMCE Boas dis oie eae vice « 4.60
ee A. A. C.: 5 106.10 1,499.31
sas Ber “Football | .
or Ecioment etre cep h dienes eee rl 380. 39
mere eran LADIG ee i hoe et eae vec cewasedee 319.90
< is: Medical and Hospital PRP ONSPS ck cds yc kn Cine 3 164,52
eae ge meMVOLCPCCS o.oo ce... Bee et id ats od be % ee eal 45.00
. Assi RRM Sera Eg hoy a xid4s woe 5.00
and Presentations BAe eS Re SGtb bata cds. chkl's wk 351.40
Dida rotatre ih eet saeth a 57.00
Bed cal? ea eae be ceca 4d 102.21
RT!) TS RE ena ee ea ma 14.03
Pea eh a aR ae eine ‘an mAh gtenes REO
Rea aie nogitie dhe keds %, who Ais sts Ghaee 38.88
Or ent o on Athletic Field Acct.—cur. exp...... 582.54

 
 

2,027.87

"STATEMENT ot Re bsinls and Expenditures, 1933-34
Couneil of The Students

8,395.47

618.30
222.50

245.60
22.84

53.00

1,007.63
2.00

$12,333.89

65.75

$12,399.64

  

Basketball—
WURPRIPORLG oo neyo ace © isdace 3 nce ecw, wee Sika Oe we hues 157.34
PEP yte day sks ooe Were s bord elaine Wee © Rite ww AG alpen 71.59
Medical and Hospital Expenses............... 52.32
‘ramming able}, <.< s4 5. Geist Wee de etisalat 126.60
City Leacue EXpenses, oii ees ewan ew we a ye 32.48
PHC MONTES (has teig 3's sida e ead ae of ery bie othe ye oly 19.00
BGR WN lite vias zie ded y-niea teats ale Rina pinata eS gy 14.00
PEGE EROTINOS a) o's be eet kin are We WETS SS ae 970.48
; 1,443.81
Hockey—
PRUTINGHS. eek SiS Pe calles on wre epee AEs oy 121.48
MRRP EEN ia a Sig Sas dug 2 0,58 008 OMe RO we 140.00
Medical and Hospital Expenses...........- eee Le
Pram eet ae tS ina yc bit catal yeu age TOCd |W al ONAL S nl 65.38
IPTAASDOTURTION. G)5is'so ea ce eae Oe wa Oe Cees Pas 60.75
TRORG GIES hic are 4 dpe nie le tie oO wine aw eases! gyi 10.86
ee A Mena cick es OO OD orem st hehe 3.00
Snare esee DeOhCIb. Go. ts osceteel ss oe we Sones 13.04
524.80
Boxing—
Expenses Maritime Intercollegiate Champ.. . 216.00
CNG foie sien Fie Salah eee ecg an ew Ok OES Sg 17.21
TITAS ec sgi doe i oi os 4 hg Cee Bie aterene mek gs 5.98
Medical and Hospital Expenses............... 5.00
PROCIREPAUION EGOS 2 ees 30k cee eiatecuiy a's 9 oa ey a 1.75
245.94
Tennis—
RE ah oil bv BS kl dete kk RAs pis Se GEMS ly Bet abe) $ 41.03
eee eels Slate a as ook he si Hk a PU Caldas kee 11.15
1 EE pec Bel rele pli Sag of DR antee Pita te TN es PUM ee 5.00
Br UM RICERCA tat OS Fy ing oe ee ey ie nal a: ob a tiin ce adi WY, i Si aw ps 15.60
Bre IVERECILGR fr cigs 7c & re Gee Make a ave ey Bre Sled ecg ahead wee 8.28
EAE ATO CHEGIS (aie ui8s Sack oul: ool oe Mibe ew tly Cee eo Se A a Ta:
Soccer—
PLCMIENGIAG bl bis eas ok ye vibes bw Whee ek ae tee yy ee tee 30.75
emia? PADION Lote ci Vee ee Wie ea raed ee eee N gy ae wes 15.50
orice Ue aL LUT 27 Me AY 2 lo UR CL gs ial gral fetal ant, tlic yi he gahie 3.00
PHOS eek ic sac Gxty Wakes seelea'w keen ee he ae hae 2.78
Swimming—
ee PON iat a", g Bhd way ae y Atel tere aera bk Miaie Co bn Go eek alot
Interfaculty :
Footbali—
TE TOTARITGE LAE sha ee ale ate ar Sa x's a won oid © ane 53.93
Hockey—
PALEY G7, Said oon y POR bin ee give Menara el otis $80.00
PACH Hib 6 1) oh came Seasons 4 Sou ele ale sie a we eee ey 2.12
PUCEDINGNE: o/.a1i ell 2h ajeie Vises Ue Scots ela eee ene 6.00
88.12
D. A. A. C.—General:
PEE, ig ek ee ak kw Se) e.g: v acelanea a) Hecate a ble Deke 103.20
Salary—Equipment; Manager ..........02-.c eee eae 100.00
BCE ese eink DR ite Oe & okie Sel ae OE DE CIR ee eee 18.00
RORCOPONCE TESBORSO (io a. legit. iNet oh Roses SSS Sealy ky 19.00
MCT heya ae = sachs Se ta as Ge ote «eee ee es 6.25
rCHAOTtAl Gait: HAT EN Glee ad iss 9 ¥. uf Soin tee eee 3 4.55
Badminton:
UEECOCES Wire Vie usar Lie Sy Wie Greets Kk CM Verte bac Re nle td owas
POMPEY URENIIORY inet rie a a gic cadily Mee anaCeheate g's ume ed fa Pade Se eS
DECIR CH its eee ene pas Mame boi doede eg ene Wie wale ave € ade bea ew cos
D. G. A. C.:
Basketball—
Ry eee ene ie Sa ee bar eee gee yee. Meee ree 82.53
PSION shee ee al Tog Sed ees ee Oe Oe, Oe eS 48.23
PLSTODETAMUMNOT > 2% is 3h!) oad cate eee s Si eM 7.53
PECROL OOS ho cis. etn Shia Cha etna ees aS Be 14.00
RG hs aC ai el ghaceS be a's heer eae Oe OTR ies bie ee. 10.00
PICHROM LAIR oie Ces 2ixin Soh g ORR Ree ok oe 3.07
Conference (Expenses ’.").5.2 Vs eae Mera tecce ee he 7.A6
Ground Hockey:
Dearne e014 ea kewae «hy ad cod een Mea ke sere ae to 6.77
DOCH tet argh Mantle isl SEP, he tle ete e ea er cee ha 3.03
BNE OMIONG, <iq anaes Ses ed a ale Oh cee ke 5.00
Delta Gamma:
PPANEG ph RTOMROD Ts. sa eid 4 Ag uscha Sir Ne Mie an eho cbc ae.
RIOUMROR Oar eat eS Ne Dakine a std aheieG SR tae Ih dh oak, eee fic ee oe
Per ae HAM BEES eget, | oC eee wee feito eh A edly yt:
Spender On MOC nes. ill A een eh te eee Meh ee
PNR el eae toy te Sanne oe Kena uo. Se hd tetas hele Tk eS
Ee ASABE iho 6 rain iets MM eee hae pone et la ae
Glee Club:
General Production Expense,’ >. 00...0. 9. oo $215.50
Parpitwre and Pixtares. 2 oe ys ea ei ig & 190.97
PIODOTROS. 1 Cua g te ane ate er et Retin oul 168.03
Salary—Property Manager .......:................ 75.00
OES . 2088 Gy olds inch a ate ae eter Pig Ue 26.40
Expenses: Proshinan Show .5.4 3.05 sa stole. oo 11.25
REARS DOMEAION, §a5)) 2 55 lz cle ey ae de is eg bee 15.08
Sodales:
Bates Depate, Mxpensedi sya a etc 2, 115.06
Harvard Debate Expenses. .... 26345. ccecc ec cre... 80.47
General:
RIMES 5 pS eA, See Lula dp Cee gl See g* FL $49.00
PUVOPMGING 0. Jere chk ee din eee 8.25
Rte deiitabt sit ake uted eee ye oh coe, | ee 2.79
Model Assembly: mee
benguc. of Natiqnay ofa ids os, bo Tes ee 160.81
“Gazette” :
PUNE Ra. seu g ok Cth cin tte pe een oes 1,388.40
BROS aie mt ath Seite WEL AGERE ag Mauer eo fe sae FS 46.44
PON tie) S Ni aicn Cue e nist hope ees! Mean ors 148.78
RAMEE SAO ch Ne Yas cae aida? Arie Sic achenie Some 200.00
SOR GEE cece 5 VA Ulla peels on bike FEAL. 144.11
SMMC FTO a iee reek tS pe eis. ac ee aaa 84.00
Collections, postage, exchange, etc................... 81.50
Transportation ahs Rieter d Pag cere Pave Cee en gee cc Bhat 67.45
PRS Sab, mabe. 2a caka ly icbulgh GIS (Nee Dd 28 ohcuk ees & 28.00
PEDO Gtr A Al oleic aetna a Crate cat os 15.70
PORE cro nt Lbs baer Bestia Mak ota) sans. ke 7.00

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(Continued on Page Five)

October 25, 1934

4,242.42

81.06
85

52.03
5.06

251.00

399.70
5.50
3.09

 

14.80

 

261.17
26.00
24.00
39.74
12.00

1.30

 

702.10

416.38

2,211.38

$4,774.47

364,21

 

 

 

 

 

 

408.29

187.62

 
   
  

 

   

at
“a

o
Ae
i a

October 25, 1934

———

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

 

 
  
      
   
   
     

GAUVIN
AN

 
 

Statement of Receipts and Expenditures(Continued from Page Four)

 

Year Book:
ND Gee re amvemel a Cuban t shee als be Fe 6a hay Ke se 50.00
. Photography .........esee eee eeeee rene: ees aint oe 25.00
GENTZEL Pe hak ne atens tanh st om ae ie adr, 2 7.95
PUMMEER IN oii css ula 0s coe ha has ee Pepi cixike a ea “i 9.30
92.25
Photographers to Total 1933-34 Accounts Paid.................. oa ae eh attack ahs 5 $10.556.09
Accounts Payable, 1929—Paid
DALHOUSIE _ | Gazette”:
| United Typewriter ........ a tiedt ieee tu Sire eh asses of exits ue 15.41
UNIVERSITY || Accounts Payable, 1932-33—Paid: |
Hockey: ; .. fo switch to Turret
et : ig ie aagee Re ee MEN. ei 5 bp ob Ges oe bole sie oO WOR elas 3.74 Cigarettes. Turrets are
. asketball: the brightest star in the
Special Rates to H, NTI RRMA Cokes go oo wiv) a nce udp Weds Bik wld e atest ir aie ‘ 56.69 mE OA cigarette world because
STUDENTS || (Accounts Prepaid, 1934-35: they fs oubinaingly
| 13 ce Rugby: good—cool, mild and
a 24 Hour Finishing NIN NN eae ns 0) silane be Wm hgh el Fie wb cde lagu ece'd « . 10.00 altogether appealing.

Service

   
     
   
     
 

See Our Pictorial
Work for Gifts

18 Spring Gardren Rd
Phone B. 6992

 

Unlawful Organization
(CONTINUED FROM PAGE 3)

weight. A man cannot address or
even attend a meeting of an organization that has some dream or farfetched plan of social revolution, no
matter how innocuous it may be
in fact. That is to say, not only is
violence forbidden, but the mere idea
of ever using it.

As far as the particular Communists who have been convicted under
the section are concerned, they may
not deserve any particular sympathy
but the point is; is it wise to punish
them? The principle is essentially
that of free-speech which was advoeated so forcefully and logically
by Milton three hundred years ago
in his Areopagitica, and has been established in England ever since it
was championed by John Wilkes in
the following century.

Assuming that the ideas put forth
by the Communists are rash and impracticable, it does not seem to us
that an attempt to suppress them
by criminal punishment will have
the desired effect. It would be better to permit them to circulate free
ly and they will dissipate themsel-|

ves. The latter course has been followed in England and the former in
the United States, and now to a
slight extent in Canada, In the

510,641.93
CASH ON HAND AND IN BANK, Sept. 30, 1934

O'S BF. 0 6) 8 oO Cee 6. Oe 8r.8 6 Ob. Oy Od 8 €'@ 6 ®

$ 1,657.71

I have examined the accounts of the Council of the Students, and, having received all
information and papers requested, I hereby certify that the accounts of the Council of the
Students and the statement presented herewith are, in my opinion, correct and complete.

(Signed) JAMES M. MacDONALD,
Auditor.

 

In England, on the other hand, a
different policy is followed. Sedition and seditious libel are offenses,
as they are here. As Dicey says in
his Law of the Constitution: ‘The
law, it is true .... sanctions criticism on public affairs which is intended to recommend the reform of
existing legal institutions of legal
methods. But anyone will see that
the legal definition of a seditious
libel might easily be so used as to
check a great deal of what is ordinarily considered allowable discussion, and would if rigidly enforced
be inconsisent with prevailing forms
of political agitation.”

Everyone has heard of the soapbox orators in Hyde Park, London,
who are permitted with immunity
to revile everybody and everything
—not only are they not arrested,
but the very police whom they condemn protect them from mistreatment. The policy seems to have
been successful. Agitation of every
imaginable kind has found expression, but no harm has ever resulted.

The greater part of such speakers
are visionaries with impractical notions, and usually there is no suggestion that they are able to put
they suggestions into effect. In any
case, the experience in England has
been that no harm is done. If suppression had been exercised instead,
\it is probably that those convicted
would be regarded as martyrs and
create sympathy in their cause.
Thus we are of the belief that it

Comment-(CONTINUED FROM PAGE 3)

will carry the judgment of most
thoughtful and patriotic citizens
once it is fully conveyed to their
consciousness.

My Liberal friend will be right if
the Bennett Government does not
start preaching right away. “The
people cannot believe unless the
gospel is preached unto them.” Mr.
Bennett, if you could borrow a little
Liberal organization and strategy
you would be returned on a landslide majority that would make
“Mitch” Hepburn himself wonder
what it was all about.

If the electors had not been so
everlastingly bombarded by political
mistatements, disruptive catchcries
and racketeer slogans, they would
have realized what legislation had
been enacted on their behalf. Politicians, both Liberal and Conservative, have got us into such a dangerous and — possibly — desperate
mess, that they will have to be consistently prodded by the taxpayers
of this country if we expect “to get
out of the red”.

One would like to see a pooling
of brains at Ottawa, but we witness
instead a fierce perpetuation of this
old partisan strife. It is, says the
Montreal Star, “the old folly of
playing politics on the pit”. The
Great War was terrible enough to
force the politicians to fight for a

Department

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
   
   
   
 

 

Here is an intriguing little tale
which has come to us from the annals of the past. It actually happened, and perhaps the principals
of the story will recognize themselves, but its chief purpose here is
to supply amusement to some and
instruction to others. It will be of
particular interest to those enrolled
in Erotics 3, the Arts of Osculation,
who are now beginning their Laboratory work.

The boy, then a callow youth of
20, came into the office of the Registrar on the morning of March 13,
1933, and asked to see Miss Dott.
He was shown in and I asked him
to be seated.

“Tell me what is wrong,” I softly
said, laying a hand upon his skinny
knee.

He started violently and almost
shouted, “Don’t do that! I’m grown
up now and got feelings!”

“Have a cigarette?” said I, offering my choicest brand of Quebec
hay, to pacify him.

“Thenx so much,” he breathed and
accepted the proffered package, put
one in his mouth and the rest in his
pocket—absentmindedly.

Thus I knew he was in the first
stage of romance. The rest would
be easy. I had diagnosed the case.

 

of Erotics

Just try a Turret and
you'll agree it’s a
feature’ cigarette in
every particular.

 

   
 

Quality and Mildness

urret

CIGARETTES
SAVE THE POKER HANDS

Imperial Tobacco Company of Canada, Limited

a Ne hla
feel of it there; it was just as if|your lips firmly and decisively on
she, herself, were pressed close to|hers. Don’t make a noise as if you
me, were cracking peanuts and don’t

“After a delightful walk home we|keep it up too long—the first time.
stopped at the door of the Hall. She| Gently release her and softly whisgave me her hand and a dazzling |per good night. She will either be
smile and turned to go. breathless from the embrace or

“You're forgetting something,” I| dumbfounded by your impudence
whispered. long enough for you to make your

“Am 12” she breathed, coming|escape gracefully before father
close to me and looking soulfully at|sticks his head out the winme with those heavenly blue eyes.|dow and tells you to be gone.

‘* Am Ct

“Yes,” I blurted, “here’s your
compact. Good night!”

“T could hear the slow, even, vindictive tone of her voice long after
I had passed Professor Bennett’s
house.

“Oh, Miss Dott! What have I
done? What shall I do?”

Erotically yours,
DIXIE DOTT.

a

seen ee

DELTA GAMMA MEETING

A meeting of Delta Gamma
has been slated for Monday,
Oct. 29, at 8 P.M. Professor
Burns Martin will address the
group. The evening promises
to be an_ interesting one.
Freshettes, in particular, are
urged to attend.

I will not tell my readers just
what I said to the young man, but
I will make a quotation from “Bye
and Bye” for our Erotics I students
who, I hope, read this column faithfully each week. You will find this
on page 16.

 

 

Criticism like charity can sometimes make its beginning at home.

 

   

P United States Communists are re- ia es, be Jets ‘the C common cause. “But this tragedy,”’| He began: Pe eset —William B, Munro.
i garded with the utmost disfavor and ae sda Gad abbs anton Mat states the Star, “is undermining our “You know, Miss Dott, I’m in HOW TO SAY GOOD NIGHT
have rather a bad time at the hands| "| ~ TES oe very livelihood so insidiously and so| love.” When Te :
i ris ‘ 7 : you have arrived at the Laundr
of the law. It is hard to see how and as emphatically as they ‘wish. quietly that we may not drive our| “Yes?” said I, putting on my] door of the young lady’s house, offer Halifax Steam y


ee
: i

the punishment of one man will take
the ideas that he has been advocating out of the heads of his listeners.
It may make them cautious, but will
not rid them of their convictions.

Birks - Balfour

The L. G. Balfour Company, makers of Fraternity
Jewellery, have entered into an agreement with
Henry Birks & Sons, to
manufacture and distribute

for them in Canada.

Better service, and closer
contacts, are thus assured
for Fraternity and Sorority
members.

Henry Birks & Sons

Limited

DIAMOND MERCHANTS
Halifax, N. S.

 

 

public men into the needed action
until it is too late.”

Bravo, Mr. Bennett, you have
brought honour to your country and
party and you have set a standard
of cleanliness and non-partizanship

Rastos-Jud hat ld d which for the good of this Dominion
—Judge, what wou a do Ff
if someone nonid steal your girl? should be emulated by every poli

Judge—I’d cut her company, Ras-| tician.
tus, and let it go at that. Well, Liberal friend, my story is

Rastus—Dat’s jes what Ah did,|not quite as long as Mr. King’s
Judge, and Ah sure cut him deep.|throne speeches, but it should suf| fice to tell you that Mr. Bennett
has done his duty and that, despite
your visions of this great overriding
sweep of Liberalism, he will in all
probability continue to captain his
country. Remember that Bennett
was in power during the greatest
universal upheaval of social, political and economic doctrines that the
world has known—but at. the same
time the League of Nations’ Economic survey found evidence to say
of Canada that it showed “the most
remarkable improvement
anywhere in the world.”

most motherly smile and beaming
all over him—It was the same old
story.

“Yes,” he continued, “but I’m so
darn “Here he blushed, probably at his profanity before a lady.
(Ahem!) ‘“—so darn bashful that
I know she’ll never learn how much
she means to me.”

“Bashfulness, eh?” I pondered.
“Can you give me an illustration of
just how you behave?”

“Yes,” he replied, “I can. Oh!
last night it was terrible. Of course,
it was-only the second time I had
taken her out. We had seen ‘SleepNights’ on Saturday, and when I
took her home I asked her to go to
the concert at the Nova Scotian on
Sunday night after church. She
agreed, so we went there as planned.

“When the concert was over, she
powdered her nose and gave me her
compact to carry. It was one of
those big ones—the size of that
reported | largest ash-tray—and I dropped it

:in my overcoat pocket. I liked the

AGREED WITH THE JUDGE
Judge—Well, here you are again,
Rastus.

Rastus—Yesuh, boss, Ise back
again, but dis time Ah got a cause.

Judge—Well, what is it, Rastus?

 

 

 

 
 

  
   
 
  
  
 
   

 

FRASER BROS.
TAXI

25c. Rate

On all Student call.

B-6070

  
 
 
   
  

  
 
  

 

         
 

 

FRESHIE-SOPH DANCE

   

 

    
     
    

Limited
Tel. L. 2300, L. 2309, L. 1618
Established 1877.

“Let the Laundry do it”
81-85 West St. Garrick St.

your hand to her. She will always
accept it unless angry with you.
Don’t say a word, but look tenderly
or passionately into her eyes and
at the same time draw her toward
you. Put your left arm around her
shoulders, release her right hand
and put the right arm around her,
not higher than the waist. When
this far, don’t go at it as if you
were trying to get it over with and
get away as soon as possible. Place

   

 
   
      
        
   
      
           
    
  
 

EVERY DAY IS
BARGAIN DAY

AT

TIP
TOP TAILORS

ONE PRICE ONLY

$23.50

MADE TO MEASURE
SUITS, OVERCOATS, FULL
DRESS AND TUXEDO.

 
 

 

 

   
 
  
  
  
  
   

 

MacLeod, Balcom

Limited

DRUGGIST

  
   
   
  
   
   
   
    
 

   
   
   
   
 

 

    

. 7
Halifax and Redford 422 BARRINGTON ST.

    

Nova Scotian Hotel-Thursday, October 25, at 8.30

 

NAUGLER’S ORCHESTRA

 

TICKETS $1.25 PER COUPLE. 75c. SINGLE

 

 
  
 
 
   
    

“> v4 eae e

 

a.

 

A large crowd of loyal supporters
sat in a pouring rain to watch their

Fr Bc team in a losing battle in an attempt

to down the League-leading Acadi
- ans. In spite of most unfavorable

football weather the match was well
worth seeing, as the Tigers played
hard to o¥ercome the lead right up
to the final whistle. Gerald Hayes
handled the game in a most c.ecit
able manner to the satisfaction of
both players and spectators.
McCarthy sent in a somewhat
changed team from last week—Hal

Davidson at full back, Hal Flynn
- playing his first Senior game, Barn
stead replaced Tanton on the half
line, while Tanton joined the scrum,
and Lawrence replaced Neil Ferguson in the serum.

Aeadia presented a heavily surging scrum that sent the leather out
to a waiting line thirty-six times to
six of their opponents.

Getting a penalty kick near the
Dal posts late in the first half,
Sandford sent the ball between the
uprights for the first tally of the
game. The ball was most difficult
to handle, due to the rain, and both
teams resorted to dribbles and kicks
for touch were frequent.

BENT SCORES TOUCH.

With a long boot into the Acadia
sector, by Tanton, Bayne, their fullback, failed to tie the score. Doug
Crease, kicking a heavy and soggy
ball, failed to go over the bar, but
was given a second and unsuccessful
try as the defenders rushed the ball
before the proper time. The second
half continued with the ball going
from one end of the field to the
other on long kicks by either team.
It looked as if the game was to end
in a deadlock until the Valley team
got into Dal territory. The Tigers,
fighting hard, repelled their opponents’ half line time and again,
playing a heady defensive game.
Finally, with a short punt over the
line which Davidson failed to get
hold of, Bernie Ralston made the

decisive attempt touch to defeat his

old team mates—but Young was

_ahead of him and took the honor.
The Acadia kicker missed the bars

on the convert.

Carl Stoddard again played his
usual heady game with short kicks
to advantage; Buckley added many

runs to his team’s credit, while

Barnstead worked hard at his new
position. Don Ross’s left-foot kicking gained many yards for his teammates.

Penalties were numerous, with
Acadia thirteen, and Dal one more,
while safety-touches were only two
for the Tigers to one of the winner’s, Interest is running high over
next week’s game at Wolfville, as
many fans are planning on the trip.
It is possible that the line-up may
be changed slightly and that Neil

  

aN

Down Dalhousie 6 - 3 |[>

a

Pama Bas ase A

 

Cubs Hold Acadia
Seconds to a Tie

With five of their regulars missing, the Tigers’ Seconds battled
through two scoreless periods to
hold down the Acadians on a muddy
and rain-soaked field. The Cubs
threatened to score as_ their forwards on many occasions dribbled
the ball into Acadia’s territory—and
in spite of their marked improvement over last week failed to get a
marker. Ted Crease and Bob McLellan were out on injuries, while
Hal Flynn and Laurence had been
advanced to the Senior ranks and
Murray was out of the game. Their
positions were most creditably filled
by newcomers — Charlie Manning,
Stephenson, Armstrong, Victor and
McKenzie.

The wind in their favor, the Valley team had the advantage of territory in the opening frame. Tom
Rogers, former Acadian, stopped
many end runs with tackles and
kicks, while Gosse, Dal fullback, began to show up with many advantageous boots, that he displayed consistently during the game, to make
him one of the stars. Midway
through the period Kitz (Dal) and
an Acadia forward were banned for
unnecessary roughness.

In their turn with the wind the
Cubs proved even a greater scoring
threat than had their opponents, as
Hymie Magonet and Chuck Lorway
made gains near the line on runs.
What threatened to be the only
score of the game came on a pass
from Simon Webber to Tom Rogers.
Rogers on a short run looked like
a sure scorer, only to be downed
within a bare five inches from the
line.. The teams were brought to an
even number when Webber on a
clean tackle downed Thompson of
Acadia, and the tiny Acadian had
to be carried from the field with a
sprained ankle.

The Cubs have an even chance at
the section title, and if they play
with the same spirit and steadiness
as was shown against the Wolfville
‘Acadians, are certain winners.

Dal Cubs —F. B. Gosse; _ three
quarters: C. Manning, C. Miller, C.
Lorway, F. Rogers; halves: C. Webber, H. Magonet, Beeber; forwards:
Webster, Fraser, Kitz, Stephenson,
Armstrong, McKenzie, Victor.

NN A

Ferguson, forward, will get back into the game.

Dalhousie ——H. Davidson, F. B.;
three-quarters: G. Thompson, Crosby, C. Stoddard, J. Buckley; halves:
D. Crease, H. Flynn, B. Barnstead;
forwards: Ball, G. Tanton (Capt.),
Lawrence, Sheppard, P. Bent, B.
Peters, D. Ross.

 

 

 

Mien’s gatonia Gloves

Unlined capeskin (sheepskin) gloves for walking or
driving. Fashioned in one dome style with strongly
sewn outseams. Tan, beaver or grey. Sizes 714 to 10.

EKATONIA value, pair....

Eaton’s—Main Floor.

Men’s Saionia Socks

toes for extra wear. Black
blues. Sizes 10 to 111%.

EATONIA

= 2

Plain knit cashmere,

 

5 also striped and clock designs
featured in these EATONIA socks for men!
medium weight all wool yarns, reinforced at heels and

75c

Eaton’s—Main Floor.

*¥MARITIM

“T. EATON

a TP actesnne 1.75

Of

, fawns, browns, greys and

value, pair |

o

LIMITED

i

   

emcee ecm CAT ee eee

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

SPORT REVIEW

By TED CREASE

Dalhousie lost her second football tussle in three starts
last Saturday when Coach MacCarthy’s light fast scrum proved
vastly inferior to the Garnet and Blue pack. The Tiger scrum
lookeds good on paper but they very rarely gave the pigskin
to the backfield on Saturday.

Of course a team may play very differently on such a field,
but it seems to be a habit with the Tiger fifteen in the last two
eampaigns to play like a world beater in the opening game and
then crack up.

Congratulations to Bob Barnstead on his brilliant all round
play against Acadia. If fourteen others had played like Bob,
the Gold and Black would have been tied for the league lead.

Last Saturday, as well as the preceding one, Dal handed
the. other team points by picking the ball out of the scrum in
the shadow of her goal posts. Those table talks can’t be very
effective.

The Bengals still have a mathematical chance to tie the
league title providing they win all their remaining games and
the Reds take Acadia into camp. If they can’t it’s a cinch they
won’t be sent to play for the McTier Cup in Cape Breton.

The Interfaculty Track and Field Championships drew
more interest this year than last. Medicine, however, had an
easy time in copping the meet.

Nate Shandalov sprang the great surprise in winning both
sprint events with comparative ease against the highly touted
Frosh track stars.

The House Basketball League, under the supervision of
Mr. Sterling, Manager Bob MacLellan, and Assistant Manager
Ian McKeigan, is slated to get under way during the next few
days. The team’s clean-up of Maritime basketball last year
has apparently made the hoop game the most popular sport at
Dal, because about seventy players have signed up for the
House League. Maybe I’m prejudiced!

The D. A. A. C. have finally taken over their duties and
have all the college athletic organizations under their thumb.
Athletic expense budgets must now pass the Club executive
before going up to the Council.

Our co-eds don’t seem over-enthusiastic about this game
of ground hockey. We only see about ten out for practices
these days. The expense of this sport could be used to better
advantage.

The powers that be are to be commended on their. decision to compel Freshmen to take physical training. This
action, excluding as it does participants in the various organized sports, will probably augment the candidates for varsity

 
   
  

October 25, 1984

 

   
  

    

ON THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 8th, 1934

LET’S ALL PLAN TO GO TO

The Law Society Ball

Laos AIRY Ms
THE NOVA SCOTIAN HOTEL

    
   
    

   
    
   
  

  
   

          

And Dance to the Rhythmic Strains of

JERRY NAUGLER AND HIS BAND
From 9.30 P.M. to 3 A.M.
With SUPPER, REFRESHMENTS, NOVELTIES.

 
       
   
  

   

Couple, $3.00; Single, $2.00. Tickets procured from University
Store, W. A. Kelly, R. R. McIntyre, E. G. Byrne.

    
 

The world - rocking romance of 2,000 years
ago. ... Filmed against
Roman and Egyptian
backgrounds of dazzling
splendour!

Claudette Colbert

CLEOPATRA

* Starting Saturday
SORREL
AND SON
with

H. B. WARNER
In his Original Part.

CASINO

NOW

IRENE DUNNE
JOHN BOLES
oot on

THE AGE OF

INNOCENCE

Starting Saturday

  

 

Interfaculty League Arts Tie With Eng.
LAW HOLDS MEDICINE TO TIE. And Com., 3 All

In a fast, open game on Monday
afternoon the Arts and Eng. Com.
teams battled to a three all draw.

The game was close, with neither
team having any marked advantage
in the play.

The Eng. Com. boys scored first
when Lou Petrie, following up fast
on Bauld’s attempted drop kick, fell
on the ball after it had rolled over

In the second game, Medicine,
with the consent of the Law manager, went on the field strengthened
by several “D” men.

In the first half Medicine, playing
with one man more than Law,
threatened often, but the half ended
without a score.

In the second half the Law team,
strengthened by McDougal and
Grant, reversed the order of play

7 the line. The Arts team then put
and the Medical boys were glad to on a determined drive which was
hear the final whistle, the game rewarded by Referee McCarthy

ending a scoreless draw. awarding Merkel a try, because one

teams.

Next week we hope to have some real hot stuff in the way
of giving our thousands of readers the latest hope on picking

winners. The dopesters are

Don Saunderson, outstanding

miler and ping pong player, and Don Bauld of basketball and
tennis fame, and last but not least myself. Be seein’ ya!

Athletic Club Meeting

At a largely attended meeting
of the D. A. A. C., Bobby Donohue
made good his boast of a previous
meeting, by having his professional
friends out in force, to repeal that
section of the D.A.A.C. Constitution,
which prohibited men who had
earned a letter in any branch of
sport from participating in that
sport for an interfaculty team.

The said section being duly repealed, the question of recognition
for the American football team, representing Dal, was considered. The
meeting unanimously decided that
the team should be taken under the
wing of the D.A.A.C, although for
the present, at least, it will have to
handle its own finances.

Hymie Magonet then spoke on the
lack of interest being shown in the
track team. He reminded the meeting of the fine showing made by the
various athletes of last week’s interfaculty meet and stated that if given
a little encouragement, the
team should go far in the
intercollegiate track meet.

next

 

 

Tennis Play-Offs Here
With U. N. B. losing out to Mt. |

A. tennis team, Dal and Mt. A. are

the remaining contestants for the)

Maritime Intercollegiate title. Contrary to previous arrangements, Dal
will not go to Sackville, but the
finals will be held in Halifax this
week. Frequent rains here interfered with practice sessions, but it
is felt that Dal, present title holders,
will ably defend and once more keep
the title at the University.

 

“Snake Snacks,” produced by Flor-|

idian Products Corporation, are made
by seasoning and. smoking rattlesnake meat over a hickery fire. The
flakes resemble dry cereal in shape
and color and have a jerked-meat
odor.

Dal |

The Fourth Book
of Bunk-
(CONTINUED FROM PAGE ONE)

Ness than they expected, and to save
‘expenses the Add-Getter made all
apopkars of the Gaz-Yette promise
'that when the wribbon on the type‘writer wore down a new one would
not be bought, but a committee
would be chosen to dye the old one.
|The Gaz will thus save cash.

4. And then also came to pass
‘that from beyonds the portals of
King Karl a new ruling came into
effect—one which had to don with
‘the Green Frosh. Every day they
'must be seen in the Great Geem,
‘and every day they must have their
|Echercize. It is so commanded,
'and the Frosh must do as they are
| bid.

5. The Frosh are an _ obedient
bunch and they hasten to do as they
are told. Each day at early dawn
from beyond the walls of Shee-Reff|'Yawl to the Landes close by the
Harbour — Freshettes and Male
Frosh can be seen bending to touch
their toes ten times, and the creakes
of the weary bones ean be heard
through the stillness of the morn.
The Frosh must be ready for the
| Geem.

 

Seaweed Bread, made in California
from giant kelp plants that grow
50 feet long in beds along the coast,
contains iodine and a number of
|other minerals declared to be useful
‘in correcting diet deficiencies. Its
odd flavor is said not to be disagree
able.—Popular Science.

 

In Indianapolis, the Swiss Goat
Dairy puts up goats’ milk in fancy
printed containers and delivers it
|daily to the Hoosiers.

 

Ike Mercer was the pick of the
Law team, while Howard Drover
and Fraser Nicholson showed up
well for Medicine.

The lineup:

Law—Forwards: Grant, Mercer,
Q. Ross, Sutherland, McDougal;
halves: Khattor, Cougle; quarters:
Ainchey, Batt, Arab; fullback: C.
Manning.

Medicine—Forwards: Eagles, McDonald, Rankin, Nicholson, Simms;
halves: Meshart, Drover; quarters:
McDonald, Aikens, Devereaux.

DOBSON SCORES WIN FOR
ARTS.

While the Interfaculty Rugby
games played on Saturday didn’t
come up to the high standard set
in the opening league game between
Law and Eng-Com, they nevertheless showed that the league will be
keenly contested in as much as none
of the teams are showing any
marked superiority over the others.
The game between Arts and the
Frosh was marked by a long run
by Bob Stanfield of the Arts team,
who carried the ball into the line
where, from a kick by Dobson, it
went over for the only score of the
game.
out for the Frosh, while Stanfield
starred for the Arts team.

Lineup:

Arts—Forwards: Dekher, Ryan, |
Victor, Fay, Dobson; halves: Cam- |
eron, Henderson; quarters: Fergu
son, Merkel, Murray; full-back: B.

Stanfield.

Freshmen — Forwards: Chisholm; |

P. Stanfield, Plummer, McQuarrie;
quarters: Renouf, Koretsky, Sargeant, Lipton.

Student’s Special

SUITS or TOPCOATS
perfectly dry cleaned
and pressed

$1.25

Sponged and Pressed, 45c.
Called for and delivered.

Telephone Lorne 2323.

e 9 os +
Cousins’ Limited
Dry Cleaners - Dyers - Tailors
“None better—anywhere”

 

Koretsky and Lipton stood |

of the Eng. players had tackled him
while he was dribbling toward the
goal line.

B. Bauld, W. Scott, Simmons and
Petrie played well for Eng. Com.,
while McGlashen, H. Ross and Stanfield starred for Arts.

Line ups:

Eng. Com. — Forwards: Johnson,
Beeber, Goodwin, Petrie, Sutherland;
backs: Musgrave, Scott, Simmons,
Lebowitz; full back: D. Bauld.

Arts— Forwards: Victor, Ryan,
Murray, McIntyre, Fay; backs:
Stanfield, MecGlashen, Henderson,
Merkel, Cameron, Miller. full back:
H. Ross.

The possibilities of new animal
importations are by no means exhausted. A pigmy hippopotamus
from Liberia has been suggested as
a meat animal for southern swamps.
—Donald F. Jones in East’s Biology
in Human Affairs.

 

Spaniel steaks and collie cutlets
may be purchased by housewives
once a week in the public square of
Haran-gual, Sumatra.—cCollier’s.

I know my business — BUT
I need your head in it.

Haircuts 25c.

BERT BOWLBY

 

445 BARRINGTON STREET
(Over Buckley’s)

 

 

Halifax Transfer

 

     
       
     
   
     

~~ de FOG

 

 

 

| WINNERS "20%,"
START

For 60 years the REACH Trade
'| Mark on Sporting Goods has
been a mark of perfection. No
matter what your favorite sport
may be we can supply you with
equipment that will help you
play the game with the best
that’s in you.

Cragg Bros. Co.

Limited.
Hardware & Sporting Goods.
HALIFAX, N. S.

 

 

 
