 

The programme opened with a
Pine Hill offering entitled “A Night
at the Inn”. The scene was laid on
an English moor, and the play was
‘the story of four daring thieves who
‘had stolen the Ruby Eye of an Indian Idol. The moral seemed to be
| sa -repetition of the old adage that

ie — — erime does not pay, and the play
Do ended with more blood being shed
than in one of Shakespeare’s tragery 4 dies, and with more lying dead on
the stage than in Hamlet.

"The cast was headed by Fraser
Ee: Nicholson taking the part of The
Toff and ringleader, while Charlie
te. Anderson, an old favorite of Glee
ae - Club audiences, was his chief henchman, giving the best performance
of the evening. The parts of Snigie. gers and Albert were played by Earl
tP Gordon and John King. The three
ie nude crawling priests who had come
re

thousands of miles to avenge the
oe taking of their Idol’s eye held the
audience in suspense for a time as
_. they sought to knife The Toff, who
sat nonchalantly reading a London
_ ‘Times. The roles were well done by
John Jarvie, Jack Scott and Wilmer
Parker. ) The part <of~the-2—,
- finally had to come himself to get
2 a “his eye, was taken by Andrew Mac-|;
- Kenzie, and were it not for the
_ green oilcloth costume he would almost have appeared realistic.

Delta Gamma, handicapped be
 
  
   
  
 

vers

  
 

     

"Glee Club Presents Final
Show of Year 1934

aring after two serious and almost monotonous oneact a the newly formed Dalhousie Symphony Orchestra,
under the direction of Murray Ryan, scored a hit with the large|
audience in the final Glee Club offering for 1934.
Pine Hill and Delta Gamma, competing for the honour of
winning the dramatic shield, produced two one-act plays which
were hardly well received by the spectators.

 

D.A.A.C. Comments
On Sport Injuries

The D.A.A.C. has no responsiblity
for payment of expenses resulting
frem any injuries incurred in college athletics. But if a student is
injured in any senior or intermediate league or exhibition game, or
practice in preparation for same, the
management committee may use
their discretion in giving some financial assistance, The special cases
considered must have had the approval of the manager in that sport
before such expense was incurred.

GEORGE THOMPSON,
Pres, D.A.A.C.

e
Law Soc. Meeting
is Quiet Affair
Long awaited and said to be postponed for fear of the wrath to come,
the Law Society meeting to hear the

report of the Dance Committee on

the famous dance and confirmation | ~~
vs wue rumourea Sstaggenay uercil

passed off quietly Wednesday morning with none of the predicted fireworks. Probabilities seem now of a
Lawyer’s tea-party following the
meetin’s resolution to give the committee permission to hold a money
 

_ cause of the necessity of working) raising tea dance after the Christ
with the same stage setting as was
used by Pine Hill, and the selection
of a good play which had the mark
of both tragedy and comedy, but
yet was neither, failed to please the
audience, who were expecting that
the “Hallers” would give the “Hillers” a good deal of competition.

The play, entitled “Miss Tassey”,
opened amidst sighs and groans of
the lady from whom the play got
its name, but yet who was never
once seen by the audience. The characters made a good attempt to give
the audience a picture of this unknown person. From the very beginning, however, the play was slow

Moving, and in spots. the dialogue
was dull and monotonous, with frequent bits of good advice thrown out
to the ladies in the audience. There
was little room for individual acting, but Ruth Wiegand, taking the
‘f Be _ part of Rose Clifton, was the source
__ of comedy in the play. Martha Ken
e7 isto, as Miss Poselwaith, was her

old maid friend and adviser, who

ah _ Was always ready to lend a helping

r ee nd, and whose advice, “take men
y oe Awhile you can get ’em, for soon it
will be too late,” was received with
es cheers from the males in the audience, Sarah, dressed as the maid,
but acting as the matron, was played
a Florence Keniston, while Ruth
umner took the part of Miss Liv
   
   
    
 

b (hye d

  
  

- The musical part of the program
owed the plays, and if applause
ean be indicative of anything, it
I serve to show that the musical
ections offered by the Glee Club
f mphony Orchestra were by far the
_ Most popular part of the evening’s
a eae The fact that Dal| usians really may appreciate good
le was proved by the way in
es received the newly formaphony, the first all-Dalhousie
tra of its kind since the days
la Singer. The ensemble de| Praise and credit and it is
ae will find time to form

  

it
es
acy

ce

hapa
: ‘ee

   
   
  
   
 
    
  
 
  

—_———. eee, ee
NE EEE

mas holidays.

Dance Committee chairman Bill
Kelly made the report—total receipts
$245; total expenditures, $326; total
deficit, $82—less $20 contributed by
Dean Macdonald to aid the cause.
Announcement that 27 complimentary tickets were presented to patrons, chaperones and presidents of
various student societies brought a
murmur of displeasure as students
pictured the 57 eating at their expense but it was followed by a laugh
when Kelly stated the last time a
Law Dance had gone in the hole was
when it had been run by Angus L.
Macdonald; it seems evident there
is a embryo premier attending Dalhousie.

Of the 89 paid tickets, over half
were bought by law students at reduced rates, some of whom had resold them to outside friends. Spec
Murray, reformer, called for a
sweeping exposure of the traitors, a
clean up on the situation, but the
meeting was too anxious to find a
way to raise the full deficit to
bother chasing the three or four
dollars from the cheated tickets.

After further discussion, with suggestions thrown in for the next
year’s dance committee, the meeting
decided to adopt the committee’s report and to leave with them the
problem of thinking up some profitable party for January. In the
meantime to preserve downtown
credit, funds of the Society were
loaned the committee to help pay off
outstanding debts— and bang went
immediate prospects of a Law
Banquet.

Other business at the meeting included the appointment of Bob MacLellan as law interfaculty hockey
manager and Bill Davis as law interfaculty basketball manager.

A letter from former Dean Smith
was read by the president, H.
Hanson.

ES

Following this there was the regular dance with music being provided by Laurie Hart and his band.

 

Official Student Publication

 

at Dalhousie University
HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA, DECEMBER 6, 1934

New Books at the Library Council’s Activities Are
Reviewed By Secretary

The Council of the Students first met on October 8th and,
to date, has held four meetings. The absence from college of
Mr. Layton, Dentistry representative, necessitated a by-election

   
 
  
 

 

 

“No. 10

 

 

The following List is of General Interest.

 

The following new books of general interest have been
received at the MacDonald Library and are now available ne

students: in that faculty, resulting in the ore * eee ey
i ir The Council started the year with a balance o
Biography and Memoirs. as compared to $1,765.55 last year. This, coupled with the conPOOUGE, TE, oe oy Wain arene Oliver Cromwell. siderable decrease in students’ fees, meant an approximate reBuchan, J. ............ Cromwell. duction of 20% in the amount of money to be voted to the
Churchill, W. S......... Marlborough, v. 2. various societies this year. The various organizations and the
Lloyd George, D........ War Memoirs, yv. 4.

Council have had to consider this fact in presenting and pass
Nicholson, He ©... 14. sm ing budgets respectively.

Snowden, Viscount P...

Lord Curzon: the Last Phase.
.An Autobiography, vy. 2.

 

| Acting on recommendation of last
year’s business staff of the Gazette,
the following motion passed the
| Council on Oct. 9th “That the
| Gazette Mailing List be revised, viz,
| that the next issue contain a notice
|to the effect that future issues will

 

Church History
POMONA sie lite ao we Karl Barth.and Christian Unity.

Something |
To Think About

English Literature.

 

BONG I 5, ccsis Movs: Four Metaphysical Poets: Donne, Herbert, From the many charges which | be sent only to prepaid subscribers.”
Vaughan, Crashaw. have been laid at the door of Nich- | 7, + policy will considerably lessen

Been so Ren SM isc a 242% The Gentlest Art and the Second Post. olas Murray Butler it would aPPe2! | the expenditure on the Gazette by

lt te Pilgrims of Adversity. that the Italian Department of (x |cutting off hundreds of unpaid sub
AVGIDG EST PES beh. scl ocd A Study of Swinburne. Casa Italiana at Columbia Univ-r-. scriptions.

Yeats, W. B..... . Autobiographies. sity is under Fascist control. Despite | As last year, the Council approved

Yeats, W.-B........'.,.. Poems: the serious effort made to induce SRE eS ; i

: ,and assisted financially a very sucPresident Butler to discover the | ; y y
j ; ; h ade as cessful Freshman Programme. The
English Translations from Russian Authors. facts and act upon them, nothi g¢|
has been done.

. : .| Annual Council Dance was a decided
The president has

i a oh a i a ak een ee

ee , | Success, thanks largely to the efforts
SERS Ie sin la ory avi. o-n ee Three Cities. declined either to sce student dele- Pee Ronin re y A
Sholokov, M........... And Quiet flows the Don. ERICA gn Seat an investiga-|- 7° *©&@ Urease, who was in
gations or to me#itute an investigz i , 3
; : _|charge. The system of rotation
History and Travels tion on his own account. In short,

adopted last year in connection with

: i i talian
the Fascist control in the Itati | major society dances is working

Best Short Stories of Department cannot successfullly be

 

the? WE. oo Wc ais An Anthology with an Introduction by H. M.| genied. | Smoothly again this year.
Tomlinson. =e | The Annua}’ Report of the Stuos J Bue. esse eee, Selected Essays, edited by H. Temperley. dents’ Bookstore Committee shows

\ thet c+ gauzavuun w ve Il a very

Journals and Letters, 1870-1903. v. 1

or National cu .iJlism,

Moen, ee oe xe oS a Are you going to Russia?

Pilar, Princess of Bavaria and ChapmanHuston, Major D....

Rosenberg, A.

Shotwell, J. T..........

Poynee, An Js. veaest

Wiltiamis, HW... css

.Bavaria the Incomparable.

SOR SSK keer e History of Bolshevism.
Heritage of Freedom.

A Study of History, vols. 1-3.
Russsia of the Russians.

Political Science.

NCPR MED 8 oy ad nace Progress of

Bennett May Visit
The Law School

The following letter was received
this morning by D. MacDonald of
the Law School:

Dear Mr. MacDonald:
If it is possible for me to spend

 

International Government.

for my visit to Halifax, but I can
only say that nothing would give
me greater pleasure than to once
more find myself within the walls of
the old building and look upon the
faces of the students of today who
have taken the places of the class
of which I was first a member in
1890,

Thanking you for your courtesy

a few minutes at the Law School|in inviting me,

next week I will do so. I do not yet
know what plans have been made

Yours faithfully,
R. B. BENNETT.

 

PINE HILL ON PARADE

 

A billiard tournament now in
progress has advanced to the finals,
Earle Gordon and Jim Millar being
the contestants. —

Returning home at an early hour
one morning last week Allan Beveridge suffered rather a nasty experience. Whether or not the story had
any indirect connection with the
family name is unknown, although

Eddie MacViear affirms that it has. |

It seems that Allan was ascending |
the stairs and had almost reached
his own floor,
and his purpose were blocked by an
apparition in white. When he had
recovered somewhat, and discovered
that it was only the Bishop attempting to teach him a lesson on keeping
good hours, he gave a faithful
promise that never again would he
trangress the sacred rules of our
order.

It has come to our ears that his
Holiness Pope Carolus has denied all
precedent and has abandoned his
Vatican. He has descended from
those sacred halls even to the rude
habitations of the monks of the second floor annex. While it is not for
us to attempt to probe the obscure
and intricate workings of the mind

when both his vision |

of the infallible, and hence we can
hazard no guess as to the reason for
the removal, yet we fancy that if
the worthy colleague of his Holiness
were a suitable answer might be
forthcoming. Be that as it may, it
is to be hoped that the serene influence of the sanctified presence
will have its due effect on the aforementioned ruder element among our
society and not vice versa.

A “storm in a tea-cup” has been
raised over the milk question lately.
Those of our weaker brethren—the
milk and water type—who depend
for their very sustenance on lactic
stimulation have been heard to declare that the source of our dairy
produce is no longer pure. Alas!
“The friendly cow all red and white”
is no longer backed up by the genial
recommendations of our good friend
Pasteur. If the poor man could have
foreseen half the trouble he has
caused in the world to date, we are
sure that he would never have advocated putting the milk out to pasture with the cows, and unwittingly
giving rise to the cry of the children
“Give us pasteurized milk.”

One of last year’s graduates in
theology, Norman Estey, visited in
the Residence over the week-end.

Uniteuw

Though the recent Steciion im bees
Or1.ales vayve .. ts o

a pronounced wont in railitan t
radicalism in that country, delayed
returns show substantial gains for
the Communists and Socialists whi_h |
were largely ignored by the press.

While the combined vote of the
minor parties is insignificant, compared with the millions received by
the New Deal, its growth is another
indication of prevailing discontent
which may one day force a new
alignment in the American political
scheme.

as

 

In the course of a month or two
Upton Sinclair will publish a book,
entitled “I, Candidate for Governor:
and How I got Licked”. The book
proposes to show what money can
do in America, and what it is prepared to do when its power is
threatened. An example is the
author’s defeat at the polls by the
influence of money.

 

The newest development in the
naval conference at London is a possibility of union between the British
and American navies. Especially so
after Great Britain sided with the
United States in declining to recognize Japan’s demands for outright
equality.

 

Political jokes are the new pastime of Germany. Here are some
collected by a correspondent who
who visited Germany recently:

Question: “Why do people say
“Heil Hitler” instead of “Good
Day”? |

Answer: “Because there aren’t

any more good days now.”

Four men are sitting at a table.
The first one sighs. The second one
groans aloud. The third sighs deeply. The fourth exclaims: “Won’t you
chaps ever stop talking politics?”

 

Unshaken by the clamor of the
Tory die-hards at home and the
Nationalist Congress party in India,
the British Government is going
ahead with the most colossal political experiment in the history of the
British Empire. It is attempting to
confer western self-government on a
limited scale on a subcontinent as
large as Europe with antagonistic
races and religions existing side by
side and with 350,000 ,000 orientals
in all stages of advancement.

 

 

 

‘Wealthy state. Mr. McEvoy, Law
representative, and Mr. Oxley, of
last year’s Council, are working on

|a trust agreement whereby the af
|fairs of the Store will be taken over
by the Council.

Budget cutting without restricting
too greatly the various activities
proved a_ difficult task, but the
Council feels that an equitable distribution has been reached, Further
difficulties are cropping up each
year, due to the falling off in receipts from athletic events, debates,
and Glee Club presentations, and
lack of support by the student body.

Support has been guaranteed for
an active programme by the Glee
Club. It includes the presentation
of a major show in collaboration
with the Alumni Association in an
attempt to revive the Dalhousie
Shows that were so outstanding uw
until several years. ago. A policy
has been adopted of charging an admission of 25¢ to all but legitimate
Students’ Council ticket holders attending regular Glee Club shows.

The Council has gone seriously into the matter of awards. A committee has presented recommendations for the standarization of “D’s”
and the revision of qualifications for
winning a gold “D” in the various
organizations. A joint meeting is
to be held with the different executives to finalize these revisions.

At its next meeting the Council
will initiate plans for the Munro
Day Celebration and deal with other
matters incidental to a successful
post-Christmas term. Students are
urged to present matters of general
interest which may be acted upon
by their Council.

Secretary-Treasurer of
Students’ Council.
leat geen i 8 Re

Whether it satisfies India or not,
an All-India Federation will be established, and the government party
believes even its enemies, the Congress party, will co-operate to make
it work.

The crux of the matter is that
Britain realizes that she has more
to lose by revolt than by the experiment. In any event, Mr. Stanley
Baldwin is staking his career on the
project.

 

Marrying a bridge player is often
more than contracted for.

 
  
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
    
    
   

Literary Editor

DALHOU

 

“The Moving Finger writes,
having writ, Moves on,”
—Omar Khayyam.

 

HALIFAX CITY COUNCIL

EDITORIAL STAFF AND EDUCATION.

Editors A field where the educated point

UTHERLAND F. E. GOUDGE|of view is most needed and where

> aie 5833 - B. 6295 its presence or absence is most dis
° tinguishable is that of politics. We

News Editor who have the impudence to consider

. ASE SEPeEy ourselves to some extent educated
| .

must watch our step if we are to
avoid the dangers of popular un
Sports Editor

SIE GAZETTE

Gazette

BOOK REVIEW

 

I COMMIT TO THE FLAMES!
(Ivor Brown)

If it is with the intention of amusing his readers rather than of criticizing the Arts and customs of. our
time, then Mr. Brown has been highly successful in this book.

Yet the tenacious way in which
he applies himself to the subject
under discussion leads one to think
that his ambition was not wholly to
amuse. He has placed himself, it
would seem in the position of a
clever comedian who, about to pre
     

November 6, 1934

 

+

POET’S CORNER

 

MY TASK

“Write,” she said, “of the things I love:
Straining sails and the sting of rain,
Tossing seas and a sheltered cove— ~
But not of things that smudge or stain.
Write of the flow’rs that softly bloom,
And trees—the home of singing birds—
And speak of light, but not of gloom,
Nor ever use suggestive words.

Just write of beauty, purity,

Nature in all her changing moods,

The sky and sunshine, earth and sea,
Without your morbid interludes.”

“Your wish,” I said, “is my command,

us do what we can to make their lot brighter, to give them

closer to the ideal taught by Him whose birthday we shall soon
. celebrate.

at ee ee
+ “

| pare a turn, gazes round for some
An example, seasonable, though) object on which to fasten his ridi
I strive to do the things you ask.

BILL DAVIS |thinking with regard to political
a ey B. 4384 questions.
Business Manager Assistant AGHER far from being the most suitable, |
C. D. WALLACE ROWLINGS anes see which readily comes to mind is the
| B. 4647 :

 

 

 

NCE again the world will pause in its ever Increasing turO moil 53 celebrate the festive season of Yuletide. The one
| season of the year, when, if ever, thoughts of
“peace on earth good will toward men’’ should
be uppermost in everyone’s mind. Within a ee
weeks the age old greeting “Merry Christmas!
will resound on all sides: “Merry Christmas”!
What a wealth of joy and happiness the magic
phrase conjures up in our minds—what mellow
spirit of good-fellowship it brings to those
grouped around the well-laden tables. _ Of all
seasons of the year none are characterized by
more sympathy and forgiveness, than Yuletide.
Throughout every land, on every continent, the
holiday is celebrated. Petty grievances, national
prejudices and international crises are forgotten, as man universally celebrates the birthday
of the Prince of Peace.
For many the dawn of Christmas Day will
be cold and cheerless. They will not know the true meaning
of “Merry Christmas” save as a phrase of bitter mockery. Let

 

a realization of a truly ‘Merry Christmas’! If we can
so much as partly achieve this then we are that much

And so to- reader of the Gazette and to Dalhousians
past and present we say with a chastened yet cheerful heart —
Merry Christmas!

 

j.. :

Sean STUDENT SUPPORT

suffer from a lack of that so-called “college spirit”. We mean
by this that the students fail to support the various campus
activities as some think they should.

Time after time this complaint is heard, that Dalhousians
fail to support the activities they themselves sponsor. Many
a worried and perturbed class president, football manager or
society executive is at a loss to explain why this 1s the case.
Disappointed at the small attendance at their meetings, they
paint a ludicrous picture of a sleeping Dalhousie, oblivious to
campus affairs, attracted by nothing save the theatre on
Saturday night.

- There is undoubtedly a lack of insight on the part of many
as to the number of campus activities that a student is asked
to support, aside from getting an education. If any student,
interested in athletics, fond of social life, and a member of this
class or that society, suddenly started to attend every single
affair that the flamboyant notice boards advocated, he would
be moving about like the proverbial pea on a hot stove. If you
doubt this, recall the number of events you were asked to attend in any one week. We do not include here the many other
attractions in the city, some of which claim a place in student
life.

We maintain therefore that any University situated in a
city cannot expect the students to attend the large number of
events on the campus, because of a lack of time. So it is useless for the various class presidents, secretaries and managers
to bewail the lethargy of the students. The majority of the
students are supporting as many activities as they can without
sacrificing a degree. —

DANCES

_ Dalhousie is very rapidly becoming dance mad—this may
seem to be a startling statement, yet the element of truth which
is contains is evident. The number of class, fraternity, soroity
and other parties seems to be growing steadily each year. Not
so long ago, fraternity and sorority dances were few in number
because there were not many Greek-lettered societies on the
campus, and the other clubs did not deem it wise to make their
presence felt by having a large formal dance. In contrast today, fraternities and sororities abound at Dalhousie, each with
its numerous parties.

The danger of a college like Dal allowing itself to become
dance mad is obvious. The social whirl has a detrimental
effect on studies, and also dances in any number have a devastating effect on the average pocketbook. Of course, one need
not attend; but it is usually the case that a member of a club
or society is duty bound to attend and support the activities of
his group. And so the habit grows and the money goes. When
temptation offers it is all too easy to convince oneself that to
attend social events is part of a college education. One of the

most important factors that must be considered is the impression gained by the world at large who sees the college student
eternally dancing. They conclude universities are for naught
save a training in the social graces—a false impression and
very harmful to the University. We would suggest a reduction
in the number of dances and not an increase.

 

 
 
 

It seems that an University such as Dalhousie 11fUSvL aiways

present Halifax City Council question. The Halifax Mail has
ducted a very able campaign.
articles, however, were perhaps

little unbalanced, although not as)

much so as those of many ~ other
papers on similar questions. They
were strongly phrased in an effort
to arouse some thought or at least
feeling among its lethargic readers.

opoly of stupor and inertia).

If we, the select ones, are to think
clearly, we must remember the
principles of social psychology necessarily applied by the wise propagandist, and pierce the extravaganzas of journalistic expression. We
must remember that Mayor Cragg
is perhaps not an unmitigated villain, and that the City Council is
probably not composed solely of unprincipled imbeciles. We must remind ourselves that much of the
trouble is likely due to the inadequacies of the system under which
they operate, and that we must go
to the root of things if we wish to
arrive at a sane conclusion.

The catchwords of press and politician which are today necessary to
win votes, and their rhetorical plasterings of “the fair face of Truth”,
must be taken at their true value if
we are legitimately to consider ourselves educated. So much bunktim
and ballyhoo is thrown around that
one is often tempted not to attempt
to understand politics and to take
refuge behind a shield of cynicism.
Oh, what’s the use—it is all baloney;
all politicians are crooks or simpletons. Let’s have a good time while
we can, and forget all that tripe.

|

con-|mania a
a >

Its| psychology, modernist verse, the
2; coloured shirt school of statesman
 

Such an attitude is surely indica-|

tive of defeat and cowardice.

 

Playing the Game

Still rambling on — a quotation
from the ever famous Dean Inge appears rather apt. When he asked
an American Rhodes scholar at our
guests University of Oxford what
he thought was the most remarkable
thing about that University, the
young man said: “Sir, the finest
thing about this university is that
here you have three thousand young
men who would rather lose any game
in the world than win it unfairly.”
Can we apply this to our own university? We all know that the football team had a season perhaps more
disastrous than any that it has had
in the past. With what result? The
team despite the innumerable injuries, the internal dissensions, and the
thought of defeat staring them in
the face carried on gloriously on the
field of play. Perhaps one may say:
“Well, what of it?”

Our reply.is for that person to
look at the sporting situation in
Canada as of today. What do we
see — commissions appointed by the
various governments inquiring into
every conceivable kind of sport, colleges importing athletes in order to
produce winning teams (no longer is

the game played for sport’s sake but |i8 known to 80%

‘little salutary rudeness and
(We are mistakenly accustomed to)
believe that Dalhousie has a mon-|

\a flight of stairs.

cule. He finds most possibilities
offered in some aspects of our|
modern life and letters—modern sex
la Hollywood, Freudian

ship—these among others would Mr.
Brown commit to the flames, not the
flames of the Nazi bonfire, but to the
more consuming and metaphorical
fires of “argument, reinforced by a
by a
spark or two of insolent contempt.”

He rages against the Great God

| Sex, so furiously worshipped during

the last few years.

He makes a very amusing sport
of the Freudian enthusiasts who find
sexual symbols everywhere, even in
He roundly condemns D. H. Laurence, “Brother
Laurence”, in a manner blasphemous
to the latter’s firm adherers and very
entertaining for unbelievers. Modern
“thrills”, the Liberty Hall” type of
school, Mr. Buchman’s “Group of
Life-Changers”, modernistic poetry
all run the gauntlet of the author’s
restive pen and scathing condemnation. No one reading his opinions
on these matters can elude the prejudice which is bound to attend such
an ex-position of ideas; yet it is the
author’s contention that they are
written in the cause of reason. But
reason, which implies balanced
judgment, does not provide much
patter for puns, nor is it indeed up
roariously funny; it is merely quiet
and truthful. Nor catr the cloak ot

sonal bias; for no subject from religion to sport, from science to
dramatic criticism is free from all]
marks of ridicule, and Mr. Brown
has picked the most likely*of them
as objects for his shafts of raillery
and derision.

However, its opinions aside, the
book is an excellent source of entertainment. Again and again one
comes across some dictum or dig,
on which for all comment one need
only quote a Brown anecodte: |

“As the American lady in Munich
succintly said when the Nazi Beave|
threw her cigarette into her beer, |
“Well, now, can you beat that?’ ”

The Literary “D”

In view of the fact that the Student’s Council has decided that
“there is nothing literary in the
Gazette, anyway, so why award
mere news reporters a ‘D’?” and
have agreed to present what is to
be known as a Gazette ‘D’ for this
work, it is pertinent to ask, “How
may a Literary ‘D’ be obtained or
have they been abolished?”

The opinion and decision of the
Council is heartily appreved. There
has been very little even resembling
creative writing in the Gazette for
years. Anyone with a nose for news
patience, a slight imagination and a
smattering of English can report the
Campus happenings in some form or
other, however disguised.

 

This news
of the Gazette

for the glory and what comes from|Treaders a day or more before the
winning), and even our own Cana-'@PPpearance of the paper and is usu
dian Allan Cup tainted with charges
of “sh-amatereurism.” It is not in
a boasting manner that we maintain
that Dalhousie is perhaps more than
any of the other Canadian Universities free from such discrepancies
but even we are far from being Oxford. Play the game fairly not only
on the field but in the class-room and
with your fellow beings.

 

Our Co-Eds
Once again the Gazette has been
the means of someone disparaging
the fair co-eds of Shirreff Hall. We
(Continued on Page Three)

ally skimmed through, but rarely
read carefully. Other columns of
the Gazette are merely exerpts from
the local papers of the week past—
a sort of revival of the dead, as it
were.

What then are we going to do
about Literary ‘D’s?’ We cannot
abolish them entirely, so here are
two suggestions — and it is hoped
that both be adopted by the Council.

Let this new Gazette ‘D’ be presented to those contributors who have
submitted enough news to warrant
its award—it should not be received
for one year’s work unless there has

nonsense be used to disguise per

|

 

 

  
  
 

But never this, you understand?
To show the truth—that is my task.

“T write of your soft-blushing rose—
But under the roses there is mud,

And in the mud we must suppose
There is manure and sometimes blood.
The sea that churns the yellow sands,
The wind that shieks with icy breath,
Will give you joy, you clap your hands—
But fifty mariners meet Death.

Your birds have feathers full of lice,
The rain will give you chills and flu’—
In short, my dear, there’s nothing nice,
No matter what you say or do.”

At this she tossed her angry head,

I saw our friendship rise and flee.
But then she sadly smiled and said,
“You know—this hurts—but I agree.”

od

been a full column, an unusually well
written or novel column or two features sustained in every issue for the
year. Many will work for a Letter
until it is awarded and then rest on
their laurels. Consequently, the Letter should be presented on graduation from the University.

But let Literary ‘D’s’ be awarded
to those who contribute enough acceptible original work to warrant it
—work which does not merely reflect

to those receiving second place —
something more tangible than the
memory of a cheque received and
acknowledged — or have gold ‘D’s,
suitably engraved, for both first and
second place.

Gazette contributions and these annual prizes are the only competitions
open to all students in the field of
creative writing and the winners
should be awarded with the Literary
Letter which the Council proposes

 

the occurrences of the Campus and|to abolish.
the world—short stories, descriptive
sketches, brief and humorous essays,
poetry—but nothing which could be | BIRKS
tabelisd as nee ae = 4 mn
\nd let Literary ‘D’s be awarde | ‘ . as
to the winners of the annual Prizes ae meh Bi ks
for English Composition which are : oe ‘al provided
open to all students—ihe V/. H. ‘i sparkling array of
Dennis Prizes for Poetry and Prose merchandise of qual(The W. I. Morse Prize is open to ity, and authentic deArts students only, I understand.) | aa 4 Priced for all
Let a gold Literary ‘D’ ke a arded | gare
to those winning first in each of the | An early tour of ini
ij

two sections, and a silver ‘D’ give

HALIFAX TAXI CO.
At sour B.7376

Service
Lowest Rate to Students.

indicated.

.
J

annatiny i

pee var i) Ai

 

Henry Birks & Sons

Limited

DIAMOND MERCHANTS
Halifax, N. S.

[per ee

 

 

 

 

 

—— WHERE COLLEGE MEN CONGREGATE ——

  

;
\

 

 

Fiow About That |
New Overcoat?

We have lots of them in all the latest

 

styles and colors.

Priced at

$19.50 $22.50 $25.°° $30.

 

 

NEW HATS — SCARVES — GLOVES and SPATS |
At Our Usual Reasonable Prices.

Shane's Men's Shop

Thirty Spring Garden Road

 

Allowed Dal Students.

 

Discount of 10%

 
  

L

cad
*
ee.
4
‘ ‘I ~*~,

ears

i: a"

ee

 

 

bi
be

me 2,

-STUDENTS

mk y
Th ae
2
~~

-GENTZEL
Photographers to
DALHOUSIE

Special Rates to

24 Hour Finishing
Service

See Our Pictorial
Work for Gifts

i anelaeeeeenee

18 Spring Gardren Rd
Phone B. 6992

THE FOURTH
BOOK OF BUNK

CHAPTER 10

 

1. And so it came to pass that in
one Chorner of the Lhande of Forest in the Lhibraree of the Studes
of Law there arose a mighty Problem that the great and learned Makkevoi could not cope with. The
Studes of the Law had grown tired
and lazee as the Ende of the Terme
was growing closer and they refused to put their Bhuks back on the
Shelves, and left them scattered
over all the Tables of the Lhibe, so
that the Phur Lhibraryens had to
Work far into the night to put things
back in Place. And too in the Lhibraree there are sacred Bhuks which
Makkevoi hath announced must not
be taken from the Lhibe, and even
these were gone. Gone—never to be
returned.

2. The Lhibe in the Lande of Law
had always been a place of Honour,
where each Stude would help the
other, by keeping the Bhuks in their
regular places, so as to make them
easy to finde. But lo, it is not so
any more! For now lazeeness hath
overcome Honour, and the insignificant Bhuks have been the Cause of
a Speeret of Sel-Feeshness unkown
before. "Tis time for action, the
Lhibrarians have shouted, and they
have vowed that they will catch the
Kulpreet. No Mhan is now trusted
in the Lande of Law, not even the
Lhibraryens, for who knows but that
they might catch themselves some
night taking with them the Sacred
Bhuks that are not to be removed.

8. And now even the Final Glee
Cloob show has past, and the Studes
were out in full Regaylha to see the
men and Whomhen vie with each
other Honours of the Stage. It really was very leetle competition, for
try as they would the Audiens could
hardly refrain from sleeping, and
had honours been offered for the one

' who kept the Spektators least in
terested it would have been difficult
to choose the winners.

4. Those who reside way out at
the Hill of Pine presented a true
story of an idols eye which could

LATE-
but we hope you will like it.
STUDENTS’ HANDBOOK

 
    
     
    

“|| best be surnamed a “Tragedy of Eye|| Rors”.

The Ende found all the
players dead, and the Audiens wondering how the idol pinned the Bycykel Lampe on his forehead. But
despite all Errors and faults the audiens were always in suspense as to
whether or not the Pine Hillers
would drink the whiskey as it was
offered to them, and the queer parte
of it all is that not only did they
drink it, but they seemed to like it.

5. Those who resented the whomen of Delta Gamma too put on
what they called a show, which is
still on the Tongue of every Stude
—they are still wondering what it
is all about. The finest acting ’twas
decided was done by “mae west” of
the Crandyll tribe who was never

j}once seen by the Audiens, yet she

was heard and spoken of and too
her name on the Programme led all
the rest. And the butiful Keniston
Tweens were acting too, and Martha
didn’t forget to forget her lines.
Ruth or Bunos Ayrees was second
best. She was one time young, one
time old, one time crying another
time laughing; but as any other
good actress would have been she
was out of place.

6. But as it is always written,
every cloud hath its silver lining—
and although the Plays were very
kloudy, the new Symphonee was full
of Silver. The audiens were so tired
from not having clapped their
Handes that even Murray of Ryan
fame was applauded loud and long
as he wielded his mighty Bhaton like
a staunch Warrior of ye olde school.
The Audiens even clamoured for
more, deciding it was better to open
the Eers and close the Eyes to the
strains of semi-sweet Museec than
to close both the Eers and Eyes to
the dull Hum-Drum of Monotonous
Actors and Actresses.

7. And still it seems that the
learned Counsel of Studes will
never learn. Still they persist in
keeping their meetings as secret as
if they were important. Never once
for weeks has that noble Secret-Ary,
he who helps himself to five hundred and fifty bucks each year of
the cash of the Studes, written up
his Minutes for the Kolumns of the
Gaz-Jett, so that the Studes may
see what is happening. Perhaps, it
has been rumoured, the Nobel Counsel is spending the Studes’ cash on
“Christmas Gifts” for cne or two of
their favorite Frends, and of course
it would not do to write that in the

.

Kolums of the Gaz-Jett, for tho
Studes may avake and say it is not
right.

8, And now it has ecme to pass

once again that as the Seezon of
Feesting is neering, all has quieted
down in the Lande of Dal, and all
the Studes are hidden away in a far
Korner of their lonely rooms burning the midnight oil, and praying
that the Profs will be kind-hearted,
whenever Dal becomes peaceful, and

{the Lhibes become popular, it then

becomes time to exchange a friendly
greeting, and to say “good-luck”,
And so with this, the last of the
Gaz-Jett for the Year of our Lord
nineteen hundred and _ thirty-four,
and in keeping with the Spirit of the
year, the Scribe of Bunc passes on
a friendly greeting, even wishes the
Counsel of Studes a very happy
holiday, and trusts that over the
Vakashun they will get a chance to
rest their weery heads, which must
be tired indeed, for it is these heads
which must work out the way in
which to spend the Studes’ money
so that the Studes will not benefit
too much .

You can secure a copy of this book next week
at the Gazette Office, Murray Homestead. Yes,
it’s free—drop over and see us.

Student’s Special

SUITS or TOPCOATS
perfectly dry cleaned
and pressed

$1.25

Sponged and Pressed, 45c.
Called for and delivered.

Telephone Lorne 2323.

Dry Cleaners - Dyers - Tailors
_ “None better—anywhere”

 

 

 

 

WINNERS "20¥,2H
START

For 60 years the REACH Trade
Mark on Sporting Goods has
been a mark of perfection. No
matter what your favorite sport
may be we can supply you with
equipment that will help you

play the game with the hest
that’s in you.

Cragg Bros. Co.

Limited.
Hardware & Sporting Goods.
HALIFAX, N. §,

 

denly the young lady gave a little

The Spirit

of Christmas The Reviewer had had the privilege

of examining the latest—let us hope
it is the last—poem- of one of our
promising young poets. The poet’s
creditors say that he is very promising, but that is impertinent to this

 

Nineteen hundred and thirty-four
years ago, according to the historians, a Semetic king ordered three
wise men to seek for another king
who had just been born. Herod
wished to appear friendly, and sent
gifts to be presented to the new king
when he was discovered, but in reality he wanted to kill his rival.

Today, however, the order is reversed, for it is not the sender of
the gift who wishes to kill the reci
pient, but the latter would often like
to murder the giver, for it usually
means another name on his or her
Christmas list and consequently an
added expense on an already overburdened pocketbook. But the Spirit
of Christmas is still present.

The Spirit of Christmas is responsible for the ‘gold-digging’ habits of
the younger generation. Beginning
about the tenth of December, Jimmy’s hands are always clean, the
woodbox is full and he is very courteous. Jane is very willing to help
Mother with the housework or run
on an errand to the store. The favor
of the plumpest female relative is
sought and gained, so that the little
dears may borrow a stocking for
Christmas Eve. Long letters containing outrageous demands for
presents are written to a certain,
round, jolly, red-coated old chap
who is the patron Saint of children |
and the bugbear of parents — a|
Saint for the last two weeks in|
December, and a bugbear for the re- |
mainder of the year. The requests |
are often so impossible that it is no|
wonder Santa claws in his efforts
to find a reasonable substitute.

After New Years, if you should
ask either Jimmy or Jane if they
believed in the Devil, they would
probably reply, “Naw, it’s just like
Santa Claus—it’s yer old man,” and
resume playing with the tops that
hadn’t been broken.

The other day we saw a couple
walking down the street, when sud
 

squeal of delight and dragged her
escort over to a shop window full
of toiletries. Hung above the glittering boxes was a sign, Gifts for
Ladies, $6.50 to $25.00. We saw the
swain’s Adam’s-apple do a hop-polka
as the girl-friend gurgled, ‘Oh, I like
that one!’ and pointed to the largest.
The clerk inside saw them and rubbed his hands in glee. He would
make a sale within a week, but the
sivvain would have to give up smoking again.

However, this beau had solved his
gift problem for the beloved one.
Usually it isn’t so easy to discover
what the object of infatuation desires, and friends must be engaged
to act as snoopers, questioners and
informers for the loving pair—usually adding helpful—and expensive—
ideas of their own.

The sending of gifts has gone beyond the bounds of reason. The original practise was to give a present
to a child with the wish that it be
increased a thousand-fold, or to a
sweetheart (believing that it would
be regained or kept in the family
through marriage). But the habit
has spread so that it now includes
every relative, hoped-to-be-relative,
friend and person of a month’s acquaintance. This has resulted in the
more-or-less habitual practise of falling out with a lot of people in the |
lasts two weeks of November and
making up again in January. Otherwise, the average woman spends
from the first of November to
Christmas Eve planning and making
or buying gifts. How often one from
someone forgotten arrives at the last
minute and another friendship will
be ruined unless one is sent in re-|
turn!

The sending of a card with an ap-'
propriate wish to all but the children
the immediate members of the fami,
ly, and to ‘THE’ one is all that is
necessary and is really more satisfying to all concerned. If the vicious
practise continues to grow as it has

EEE ee
TT

ee
ee

jin the past few years, for six months

of every year we will either be without friends or money, or our homes
will be cluttered up with bridge
prizes and uninteresting books and
the hired man will have an envious
assortment of gaudy-awful socks,
shirts and ties.

 

My uncle used to say: “When you
hear an ill report about anyone
halve it and quarter it and then say

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

POETRY REVIEW

review.

The poem was written by that
over-sentimental ass, Burpert Rooke,
and he entitles this extravaganza
with a synonym often applied to himself by his contemporaries, “The

Great Lubber’’,

The poem is vital, living, alive
with the fresh staleness of senile
enthusiasm for beauty, comfort and
The poet

myriad other sensations.
tries to captivate the reader by the
multiple brevity of twenty-five lines
of expuisitely agonizing vignettes
of sensations which result in a poem
that is as dull, boring and lingering
as the morning dip stories of a coldtub fanatic. The poem is a catalogue of what were, to him, vital
sensations,

What were his loves? He says:

“These I have loved:
Once clean tureens, now greasy,

Piled in the sink; twisting spirals of
dust

Blown off the floor; the bloodstain
red of rust

On tools; an ice-box full of party
food;

Someone to keep the cellar full of
wood;

The rain that lets me stay at home
from work

To do the many things that others
shirk,

Such as dreaming of romance, ’neath
the moon,

Or snuggling in between cool sheets,
that soon

Lull me to rest; and the caresssing
kiss

Of blankets on my neck till noon;
hair that is

Down below my collar, rather unclean;

A three-day beard that loves the
not-so-keen

Scrape of the steel; and things not
mine to touch

And take apart; loud ties and other
such—

Shoes that squeak; the musty reek
that lingers

Round a pocket full of butts ; stubby

fingers

Waved underneath my nose for emphasis;

And whispered dirty stories; and
the bliss

Of hearing something gurgle in a
flask;

The joy of letting someone do my
task;

Large mugs; the little dulling edge
of foam

That rimes my moustache as the
beer goes home;

The thrill of seeing sunrise from
the jail;

The knowledge of a friend who'll go
my bail—

All these have been my loves, but
let it pass!”

What charming expressions! What
sensations he has experienced! Truly,
here is a man who has ‘lived in the
fullest sense of the word! What a
lover! What a poet! What a poem!
What aman! What rot! What about
it?

The reviewer would suggest that
you get your copy early. The supply
is limited, thank Heaven, and there
is no doubt but that in a few years
your copy will be worth many times
what you have paid for it, as a classical example of how poetry should
not be written,

Mr. Rooke says that he has other
irons in the fire. May we suggest

that he put this poem with the
others ?

RAMBLING—

(Continued from Page Two)
Say once again for this has been
done often in the past.

This time the girls are accused of
being “gold-diggers”. Such a vulgar
word—who could have written such
—the word ‘anonymous’ covers a lot
—why go farther? We take great
pleasure in refuting this absurd accusation. We agree that perhaps a
few of that type are in existence at
the Hall but why accuse the whole
for the folly of a few sophisticated
girls.

Shirreff Hall is an institution within
an institution and we are sure that
those who have had the pleasure of
meeting and making the acquaintance of its inmates will be righteous
 

nothing about the rest.”—Spurgeon. ly indignant.

 

Page Three

 

YOU'RE TELLING ME!

 

   
 

Smokers who appreciate
real cigarette quality will tell
you that Turrets are always
cool and smooth and mild
—as fine a cigarette as a
And why
shouldn't they be? Turrets

man can smoke.

are made from pure, sunripened tobacco —that’s why
they're stepping high and

handsome in public favour.

Quality and Mildi_s

urret

CIGARETTES

SAVE THE POKER HANDS

 

 

NIGHT THOUGHTS

To-night I watched sweet curling

incense rise

From out my burner, whirl around
the room,

And glide and shimmer in the hazy
gloom

Like fairy dancers in transparent
guise,

How should I know that they were
otherwise ?

How could I tell whence came they,
or from whom?

I only saw pale wraiths ascend,
and loom,

And slowly fade before my eager
eyes

Till, caught by some mad fancy of
a draught,

They drifted close about your favourite chair

To merge and mingle, deftly interlace

To form a woman’s figure, and I
laughed

To see, among the impish features
there

Smiling at me, once, as of old, your
face.

The house is haunted—every night

I hear

A gentle footstep pause beyond my
door,

A voice they said was stilled forevermore

When kind hands placed her coffin
on the bier,

Speaks softly, lest
“Sleeping, dear?”

I hide my face within my arms,
implore

The God of Death to take me, or
restore

The one whose going filled my life
with fear,

it wake me,

Each yearning day brings back
some former while,
And dim scenes from the past ap
pear, to fly

 

“Let the Laundry do it”
81-85 West St. Garrick St.
Halifax Steam Laundry

Limited
‘| Tel. L. 2300, L. 2309, L. 1618
| Established 1877.

ee

I know my business — BUT
I need your head in it.

Haireuts 25e.

BERT BOWLBY
445 BARRINGTON STREET
(Over Buckley’s)

FRASER BROS.
TAXI

25c. Rate

On all Student call,

 

 

A BALLAD

Throughout the land of Dal, the
Meds.

Long have proclaimed their ball.
And eagerly we all have sped
To answer each phone call.
There are six girls in Shirreff Hall
As I have heard it said,
Who to the dance intend to go
Instead of going to bed.

From dinner they dash up the stairs
And to their chambers rin

And by the troth of my body,
Never heard I such din.

Now I’ve seen maids, and I’ve seen
queens,

Ladies of high degree,

Bot a fairer lot than this, I ween,

Mine eyne did never see,

“If you will lend me your silk cloak,

I’ll ever be thy slave.”

“No, Pll not lend thee my silk
cloak,

It for myself I save.”

And all a-flutter are these girls
Preparing for the dance,

When all at once the six do cry,
“Need we some leaves, per chance?”

And to the office send they one
For the decree to get.

Not patiently the girls do wait,
Eyne open wide and set.

“What news, what news, my dear
class-mate ?

What news hast thou for five?”

Said she, “There are no leaves tonight,

So we our hair must rive.”

etter

Before my mem’ry’s view, and there
I see

That onee familiar form of her, and
smile—

But then I hear “those steps, that
voice, and cry,

“OQ Mother, Mother, Mother, come
to me!”

 

___

Halifax Transfer
“> het Lae

Seen eel

 

 

The
Canterbury Room

While students were at
home during the summer
The Green Lantern made
a decided change in decorating The Canterbury
Room. Cosy and very
nice,

The Green Lantern

 
  
   
 
 

  

ad ry

P *

—. =z

=a

reg rie.

= a. is
eS

i,

    
  

4

Qe
oe"
- ~

 

Tr, a.
bc <—~- =. =i |
Fae en ae

+
a
~

i _

a We
n°

a al aa

7"

; ~ =e
F a el S i “| be
=; Sie TAA ” ‘ og e ee es ns pe : ce ,
4 —_ i ‘2 eee roe ee ae ee eet 2 re eer
al aoe ing! :
var st
Revi Dal’s Showing

In City Football League

 

Sports Writer Analyses Rugby Situation; Suggests
Changes For Next Season.

 

With the football season behind us, it is interesting to

 

Seenes like

note the part played by Dalhousie in the City League, and also
various statistics compiled on the season’s play.

During the season Coach McCarthy used twenty-four
players, eight playing all the games, while four saw action in
but one game. Of the twenty-four players used, fifteen had
played senior football at Dal prior to this year. The line-up for
the opening game contained only two men who were playing
their first senior Dal game, and one of these, Jack Worrell, had
played for King’s last season.

The above picture taken in 1929 but may come again.
may be a possible answer to the the above will re-occurr if the playprevalent after-season question of |ers show a winning team and that
what is wrong with oFotball. ‘ihe can only come when players leave
picture gives the answer as many | their petty grievances out of the
have suggested — lack of interest 'game—and play as a unit. It is no
and support by the fans. The Dal-|idle rumor that the Acadia game at
housie band and the cheering stands| Studley was lost because of dissenwere there in 1929 and 1930 that/sion between a few Dal players.

this year.

~~, %
i 
With such a predominance of veterans Dal was expecting big things
from their squad; and their expectations were more than realized,
when the Tigers ran rough-shod
over the United Services for an 18
to 0 victory.

But the team could not stand
prosperity, and the rest of this story
will made sad reading for Dal fans,
because from a team that had everything on one Saturday the Tigers

_ changed during the week to a col
lection of weary individuals who
couldn’t have held their own with a
good High School team.

There have been so many reasons
given for the Tigers’ downfall that

the writer may, perchance, be ex
cused for advancing his own pet
theory—that the team lost interest
in the game. The readers will probably remark that there was a holi
- day between the first two games of

the season. In other years the Dal
management had seen fit to arrange
a game, either at home or abroad,
for the holiday; such was not the
case this year, and the Dal players
sat in at the Wanderers vs. Montreal
game, which was undoubtedly the
worst exhibition of football shown
Since this game caused
many real football fans to vow that
they would never again see an Eng
__ lish football game, it is only reason
able to suppose that it may also

. have left a bad taste in the mouths
of the Dal players. During the week

a number of the players openly
stated that the old interest was
lacking, and the mechanical way in
which the boys practiced corroborated their statements.

Dalhousie went into the second
game with nothing but confidence.
A couple of breaks gave them an
early lead, but they grew careless
and the second row forwards, breaking from the scrum before the ball
was out, soon had the pack disorganized, and the Wanderers’ forwards, by breaking through the
front liners, had a clear field to
dribble towards the Dal line. Wanderers soon tied the score, and when
Vie Kyte, one of the few tacklers

on the Dal team, was forced off the
field, they had no trouble running
through the Dal team for a 17 to 6
win,

A prevalent opinion among the
players that four or five of the
squad were telling the coach how to
run the team, didn’t help the morale
of the team; and the Acadia game
in which Dal trotted out several new
players and a new scrum formation
showed that McCarthy hadn’t put
his finger on the team’s weak
points. Smart playing on the part
of the Tigers’ backfield was unable
to overcome the handicap of a
serum which heeled the ball but six
to their opponents’ thirty-six times.

The team were then practically
out of the running, having but a
mathematical chance of tying the
league-leading Acadians.

In the second Acadian game, the
seniors were bolstered by several intermediates, called up to fill gaps
created when several temperamental
players quit. The new players,
proving better than their fellow
players, helped Dal flash some of
the form displayed in the opening
game, and Acadia was barely able
to eke out a close win.

The ‘Tigers, now thoroughly
ashamed of themselves, were out to
take the Wanderers. But although
clearly outplayed, the Wanderers
got the breaks of the game, and,
aided by the worst refereeing of the

season, walked off the field as vic-.

tors. 
While all the experts picked Dal
to win, their final game with the
“United”, who in two years’ playing
hadn’t won a game, fate decreed
otherwise. The coach, overlooking
the disgrace of this final defeat,
and with the idea of seasoning players for next year’s team, replaced
several of the regulars with intermediates, and the United further
humbled an already humble Dal
team with an 8 to 6 trimming.

The following players were used
during the season: Worrell, Kyte,
Buckley, Thompson, Crosby, Stoddard, Tanton, Crease, Ball, Ferguson, Bent, D. Ross, Peters, Sheppard, Barnstead, Davison, Flynn,

EATON’S

MEN’S SCARVES

For Christmas
Gift Giving

Priced at, Each

1.00-3.00

Square and reefer style
scarves in plaid and allover
patterns. Of fine quality all
wool, wool and rayon or all
silk—in attractive color combinations to suit almost any
taste. A number of the popular all wool white rayon
and silk scarves with black

and white fringe and hem| stiched ends in the group.

EATON’S Men’s Wear Department—Main Floor

AT.

maAlQAn Cs

LIM!TeED

 

ae.

hy

 

 

one did not see this fall. At the
famous Dal-Acadia game in 1929 an
estimated crowd of 4,000 packed the
stands.

Those days have not gone forever

SPORT

Once the fans know that, supporters
fail to fill the stands—Dal football
teams have been famous in the past
and will with the right attitude become so in the future.

REVIEW

 

By TED CREASE.

Our one and only “Tiger’

hockey, has turned sports promoter.

’ KF, X. Mackasey, manager of

“Tiger” blew the town

on Sunday en route to Boston to finalize plans for a tour of the
New England states by a selected Maritime University hockey
team. The Dalhousie players slated to make the trip are Doug
Bent, Jack Buckley, Cappy Cooke, and Eddie Cohn. The venture, if successful, will be a great publicity stunt for the Maritime colleges and will also settle the old argument as to the
respective hockey abilities of the colleges of the rival sections.

While in Boston and vicinity, the “Tiger” is also acting

as representative of Manager
take his Dalhousie hoop squad

Bobby McLellan, who plans to
across the border on December

27th, returning on January 3rd or thereabouts. Bobby wants

four games and lots of cash.

Negotiations are under way to organize dual wrestling and
swimming meets between Dalhousie and Y. M. C. A. early in
January. Last year the “Y’ took the wrestling laurels, while
Dal copped the City Senior Swimming Championships.

This column erred last week (among others) in comment
ing on hockey prospects.

It has been learned since that Jack

Buckley and Hal Connor, two of last year’s big stars, are ineligible for intercollegiate competition.

After sitting on the sidelines for a practice session, Charlie
“Killer” Anderson definitely decided to don the sweat togs and

toss basketballs around for another year.

There is now only

one member of last year’ championship outfit missing. The rest

depends on the coaching.

Rumor has it that there may be a fifth team in the City
Senior hoop loop this year. Just who and what, nobody knows.
It is quite probable, however, that in 1935 or ’36 a team composed of Dal grads will enter the league.

The Management Committee of the D. A. A. C. met last

Sunday to discuss budgets and general business.

Bud Thompson presided.

President

Statistics show that the Tiger cage five last year played

15 games, winning 10, losing 4, and tying 1.

They scored an

average of 40 odd points per game, as against opponents’ 20

per game.

Not a bad record and a good mark to shoot at.

Which words of wisdom are the last for 1934.

 

Laurence, Webster, Lorway, H. Ross,

Bauld, Connor and Stephenson.

The outstanding players on the
team and ones that deserved to make
the mythical all-star team were:—
Bent and Barnstead, forwards; and
Crosby and Thompson, three-quarjters. Next season we will expect
much from this years newcomers—
D. Bauld, H. Flynn and H. Ross.

While most of the team’s friends
have laid the blame for the team’s
poor showing, on injuries, a checkup on statistics throws that excuse
out. ;

The only players whose loss because of injury weakened the chances
of the Dal team were: H Ross, V.
Kyte, C. Stoddard, and B. Peters.
Ross’ sprained ankle came prior to
the opening game in which Dal won
their only victory. Vic. who had
replaced Henry was injured in the
second game of the season and although the Tigers missed his tackling, yet injuries to players on opposnig teams, should have made up
the difference to the team, caused
by his absence.

The team had been practically eliminated, before Carl and Budd were
injured. With the season ended,
Dalhousie’s attitude must be to seek
to remedy rather than to excuse
the weakness. With that in mind,
and realising that some readers will
disagree on certain facts, we invite

|

\isms, or suggestions, that they may
~™ have to offer.

Softball League

Law 22 — Arts & Sc. 10

Law having suffered two defeats
in the Pre-Exams league staged a
decisive victory over Arts & Sc. at
Studley Gym. A nine run rally in
the sixth frame clinched the game
for the Lawyers. Only three bat
ters faced the winning pitcher Don |

Ross in the seventh as the Lawyers
showed their superiority to retire
them before getting by the first sack.

Each team scored a runner in the
initial inning. The finish of the third
found the teams tied at five-all. Arts
and Se. jumped two ahead in their
turn at bat in the fourth while Law

retaliated in their half with five runs. |

| CASINO

From then on they were never in

| danger, and the big sixth sewed the '

game up for the first Law victory
of the softball season.

Ross was opposed on the mound
by Bruce Fergusson. Both pitchers
kept even until the Law bats found
Fergusson weakening in the fourth.
Ross, although touched for four runs
|in the third, came back to finish the
| game a winner.

Law—D. Ross, p; A. Thurlow, If;
J. Godwin, 1b; M. Hinchey, 2b; I.
Pink, 3b; F. Bentley, ss; B. MacGillvray, cf; N. Green, rf; Buckley .c

Arts & Se. E. Stewart, c; B. Fer
all interested to send in any critic-|gusson, p; L. Kitz, 1b; H. Flynn, ss;

R. Dickie, 3b; R. Homans, rf; A.
Mackles, cf; J. Carroll, lf.

A Message To

November 6, 1934

Dollewe Men

Whether buying a life insurance policy as a pro
vision for the future,

of life insurance as a profession, you would do

well to consider the outstanding sixty-four record

of The Mutual Life

with our nearest Branch Manager or our Home

Office.

or contemplating the selling

of Canada. Communicate

 

Mutual Life Assurance Company
OF CANADA

HOME OFFICE — WATERLOO, ONTARIO
Established 1869

 

 

 

Dal Represented

Dalhousie was represented at the
first City League Meeting at the “Y”
by Miss Kindle, athletic instructress,

|Dorothy Dobson, basketball manager, Isabel Fraser and Shirley
Sterns.

As a result of the meeting Dal
Girls will have teams in both Intermediate and Senior City Leagues.
‘The meeting definitely agreed that
Intercollegiate rules will be played
in the Intermediate Section. An| other meeting is to be held this week
'to decide on rules for the Seniors

 

as to the choice between boys and
girls rules.

The Intermediate Dal Team will be
coached by Miss Kindle. In view of
their using Intercollegiate rules they
will afford valuable experience when
the Maritime Intercollegiate League
operates—as such rules are played
ithere. Both Senior and Intermediate
League games begin about the second week in January.

 

Tigers to Perform
in United States

HOCKEY

Dal hockeyists will renew the
feats of former teams of the Maritimes by playing in Boston during
the Christmas holidays. Maritime
teams have always been popular at
the Massachusetts city, being the
home of many from these provinces.

Tiger Mackasey is to be congratulated on this progressive step in his
new duties as Dal hockey manager.
Not for several years has a Nova
Scotia team played in the United
States, and the movies being met
with much approval.

Dal is by no means the first college team to play there from Nova
Scotia. St. F. X., with such players as Kenzie McNeil and Gerry
Coleman played there. Both these
players later played with Dal.
King’s, when at Windsor, sent a team
to the Bean-City, while Acadia in ’28
toured the colleges on the Maine
coast.

 

BASKETBALL

Should Tiger MacKasey, acting for
Bob McLellan, basketball manager,
arrange hoop games in the neighboring country, it will mark the first
trip of such kind to the United
States. These games will also be
played during the holidays.

It is a moot question as to wheth}er Canadian basketball can keep the
pace with the U. S. game, hence
such a tour would create much inter
 

 

 

Starting Saturday, Dec. 8
e
Limehouse

Blues

with
GEORGE RAFT
ANNA MAY WONG
JEAN PARKER

 

Next Wednesday

Student Tour

DURANTE AND
BUTTERWORTH

 

at League Meeting

}
}

; ANDERSON TO PLAY
}

as there is considerable controversy |

Nee

fy |

| =

 

j

 

 

 

i 
| Charlie Anderson, former Dal
|'Basketball Captain has decided to
come out of retirement and take his
old position on defence for the Maritime Title Holders. Basketball fans
‘are elated over this recent decision
as it makes the Tigers look invincible. Sport followers — perdict
things for team this year, some even
looking way past the Maritime Title
'and with “Andy” added to the team
it may be no dream.

big

 

 

Swimmers to Meet

For City Laurels

Dalhousie University’s Swimming
Team, present Halifax City Champions for Pool Swimming will defend
their title at the Y.M.C.A. tank in
January. President Bennett of the
League, in conversation with George
Murphy, Dal manager, agreed to
postpone the meet, scheduled for
December, until January, because of
Dal not being able to compete until
that time.

Members of the Champion natadoves include George Murphy, Len
Kitz, Art Grant, Leo Simmonds and
Laurence Redden.

In a meet with Acadia swimmers,
Dal lost out in their quest for further laurels. It may be possible that
Acadia can be brought to the city
for a meet to decide the Provinciial
Intercollegiate Title.

 

est on both sides of the line. Particularly so as Dal is just representative of the game in Eastern Canada,
being finalist for that title in 1934.

 

MacLeod, Balcom

Limited

DRUGGIST

Halifax and Bedford |

STEN
“WE LIVE
AGAIN”

— with —
FREDERIC MARCH

FRI. - SAT. - MON.

 

 

 
   
    
     
  

ox

of
