a.
ae
¥

ev bers were not present.

  

ri :
4

_

 

  
   

 

     

- Sodales

»

Asks Resiimation of

Official Student Publication
Fey SRA ALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA, MARCH 15, 1935
Munro Day Activities Mark Taylor Elected President
At New Council’s Meeting

 

President of New Council End of Dal’s Social Season
ae

A motion that the president of the new Council resign and

that the°old Council call for the election of the new president}
ag so that every student should be able to personally ex
press his or her opinion closed the second forum on Tuesday

on, “What’s Wrong With Dalhousie?”

It was passed almost

unanimously at the largest Sodales meeting in years, 175 stu= ig = filling the Chemistry theatre to hear Dr. Stanley on the
pessiert and staying to hear John Fisher tell of the abuses of

ae
Btn

=

 

   
   
  
 
 
   
  
  
   
  
  
  
   
  
   
  

 

| COUNCIL VOTES TO EAT

- STUDENT MONEY
| The Council of the Students has
| decided to spend $35 of Student
monies on a banquet and dinner
dance at the Nova Scotian Hotel
| “on some convenient Saturday
| Night”. This much was decided
at the regular meeting of the
Council as a motion to that effect
moved by Ted Crease, handsome
Commerce representative, was
passed by a majority of one.
| Mit Musgrave led the opposition,

being upheld in preliminary discussion by Gord Thompson and
Lou Petrie. Ted Crease and Beth
| Atherton debated for it. A turnover of opinion at the vote had
the Council members lined up:
for, Crease, Thompson, Cohen and
| Petrie; against, Musgrave, Ather_ | ton and Sumner. Several mem
| The Council decided later that,
oes a view of the fact they were
__ | holding a banquet on the students’

   

  

e a 7 eg:
; would not spend an
; q nL or My 10te o"} 2D hate
/

though custom has formerly demanded this te

.
—_-+

    
 

i =

B

 

 

_ 735 Wins From ’37.
In Shield Debate
> For the first time in four years the
Bennett Shield for inter-class de
bating rests outside the Freshman
class, having been won by the

4

7 Senior team in the final debate at

Saturday noon when they triumphed
over the Sophomores.

Bernard Andrews, leader of the
- Senior team, which was upholding
_ the affirmative of the resolution that
“party politics has outlived its usefulness”, opened the debate with a

ee vigorous attack on the party system

in theory, declaring that it was not
necessary to democracy.
Sandy MacPherson, leader of the

van _ Sophomore team, appealed to the

reason of his listeners as he attempted to prove the fallacies of Mr. Andrews’ logic by asking what sort of
parliament would result with parties
lacking Two hundred and forty-five
independent members would cause
‘chaos.

Miss Flo Keniston, second speaker

_ of the affirmative, was the outstanding speaker in regard to ease of

_ manner and delivery. She illustrated

_ the curse of the party system in

practice.

_ Miss Erin Russell, second speaker
_ Of the negative, deserves great com_ mendation for coming forward at the

__ eleventh hour to replace the original
__ lady member of the Sophomore team.

a Her lack of sufficient preparation
_ Was discounted by her complete selfPossession. She brought her col
_ league’s arguments to a conclusion.

_._-Mr, MacPherson, in a short rebuti; tal, cited what he had proven and
stressed the failure of his opponents

_ to offer a substitute for party poli
= tics. .

a _ Mr. Andrews concluded the debate
with a brief and tempestuous. rebut
4 al, in which he referred the leader

_ of the negative to the terms of the

    
  
  
  
   
    

for him to suggest a new system
e decision of the people of England
shelve party politics and to estabnational coalition government,
Yewfoundland with its commisp 0 2rnment.

i.
ae

 

=

    
     
  
   
  
 

 

solution which obviously did not

the present system of electing a president to the Students’

Dr. Stanley, the first to speak,
talked directly to the students on the
subject and was well applauded. In
accordance with his request, the
Gazette will not carry a report of
what he said.

After Dr.
meeting was thrown open by President Charlie Manning and the crowd
began the cries for Fisher which
lasted until the pangs of hunger
brought about adjournment. Fisher,
Freshman representative during the
past year and elected to fill the same
post next year, strongly attacked the
Council, terming the members as
worthy of every criticism, and
pointing out their appropriation of
$35 to hold a banquet and dance for
themselves at the Nova Scotian as
typical of their manner of doing
things. He spoke at length on the
combinations of sectional interests
and fraternity spirits which had kept
him from the presidency and, when
the crowd had signified by loud
cheers they wanted a Studley man as
president for a change, he called on

   

| Studley representatives to explain|

why they had voted for a medical
president. Their réply, that they
thought Taylor a better man, was
not favourably received by the

| Studley and Law students present.

Fisher was interrupted regularly
as several speakers tried to pin on
him charges of mishandling Freshman Class funds. The other speakers were Gordon and George Thompson, David and Bob Maclellan, and
Rudd Hattie. In several instances
they were howled down by a crowd
anxious to hear the “inside dope” on
Dalhousie affairs. John Oldfield,
defender of the fair sex, surprised
everyone by losing his temper at the
crowd and raising his voice as he
told Fisher what he thought of him.

At the close of meeting it was
moved and seconded that “this meeting of Sodales ask the President of
the new Council to resign and the old
Council to call for the election of the
new president by ballot so that every
student should be able to personally
express his or her opinion.”

 

S. C. M. WILL BRING
KING GORDON HERE

The S. C. M. of Mount Allison and
Dalhousie are cooperating in securing the visit of Mr. King Gordon, recent professor of Christian Ethics in
the United Theological College,
Montreal. Mr. Gordon, son of Ralph
Connor, will speak in several of the
city churches, lead a student forum
in Studley on March 26th, and will
address a supper meeting that evening. Thought by many as radical
in his views, Mr. Gordon is a man of
deep convictions, and will bring a
challenge of Christianity to the present social order.

aE

   

NOTICE

Application for the following
positions will be received by the
undersigned up until MARCH 29:Editor of Gazette, salary... .$100
Business Manager of Gazette

Salary
Property Manager of Glee
IN RENO hi wnt 4 $75

Application for the Editorship
may.-be.single-or joint,

Application will also be received for the privilege of publishing
the Directory of Students and
Students’ Handbook.

M. M, RANKIN, Secty.-Treas.

 
       
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
  

    
 

Stanley had left, the

 
   
    

Founder’s day was again celebrated by a varied program. The
sports events of the afternoon resulted in Studley being crowned
king of the campuses and being
awarded the new shield.

Following a neatly arranged dance,
with Gerry Naugler’s best, President
Teasdale called the campus “Big
Shots” to the stage as the latter
part of the program began.

Dr. Stanley, the first speaker,

 

Graduating student in

dent of Phi Rho Fraternity.

of Kappa Beta Phi sorority.

congratulated the Munro Day committee and the compilers of the
program. He said he hoped the students had had a good holiday and
thought it fitting the day should be
celebrated. He closed by advising
the future millionaires, now in attendance at Dalhousie, to keep
Munro’s acts in mind and to do likewise.

George Thompson, giving a brief
aecount of the D. A. A. C., said this
year’s Managing Committee had
been particularly active and had determined to boost now lagging sport
at Dalhousie. Mr. Thompson said
it had been successful to a degree,
but still needed a united support
from athletes and fans.

Mr. D. Macgillivray was the speaker for the program which had been
arranged for the earlier part of the
evening. One thing which the
speaker. suggested as a means of
bringing back the days of old Dalhousie was that students should
wear black and gold ribbons, and
he volunteered to secure the same if
students could not do so. (It is rumored that the Medical students
have accepted his wager), too, without any feeling of partisan politics.
Mr. Macgillivray suggested that a
message of good will be sent to the
Prime Minister, one of Dalhousie’s
illustrious sons.

Mr. Teasdale, the retiring president of the Council, then introduced
the various members of the new
Council. The new president’s speech
was very short, being confined to
thanks to his supporters in the recent elections and a promise to act
in the interest of the student body
in the forthcoming year.

Then the best event of the day
was presented. Maurice Dean, Walter Wood and Harold Flynn depicted
a series of famous scenes as living
statues in bronze. Ten scenes were
presented, all being of such a high
standard that it was impossible to
select any one as being better than

the rest. One word one can be used|was a person to be shunned.

Malcolm Honour Students

FRED WIGMORE, B.A. (Mt. A.)

editor Mt. A, “Argosy”, twice member of Students’ Council, and last year’s president,
class president, has repeatedly led his classes and taken
several prizes, including Pathology. last year; past presi
BETH ATHERTON

Graduating student in Arts, has been vice-president
of Class ’35, two years vice-president of Sodales, Bennett
Shield winner, vice-president of Shirreff Hall, member of
House Committee; has been secretary and vice-president

Train”’.
With the memories of the “Ghost
Train” still lingering in the mind:

of some of the players, practice was
lacking in many of the choruses. In
dividually the players did all tha’
could be asked of them,

portray the difficult intracacies re
quired for a good group performance,

“Anita” was divided into two acts.

Medicine, editor Year Book,

secretary of Medical Society,

 

the first taking place in the grounds
of the Lakeville Boat Club, the sec
ond in the

House.

them. And then, too, there was a
boat race which fitted somewhere
and which finished with both the

champ and the Great Unknown be
ing vanquished by our little heroine,
Fran Gardiner, who made the audience happy by singing to them.
The second act showed continueud
improvement and besides adding further complications to the plot, provided many enjoyable moments for
the audience. “Anita’’, the parrot,
succeeded in stealing the show,
while the silver voice of Bill Stevens
was once again the object of most
of the applause of the evening. The
“Story of the Pirates” gold and bullion proved that there was one very
well rehearsed section of the comedy
and George Murphy, Evelyn Embree

'and Charlie Anderson put on this act

in a class by itself.

As the story continued, Lieutenant
Bill, finding himself at odds with all
the yacht club and also with Valerie,
the girl of his dreams, decided to put
things under control again and started singing a couple of songs to and
with his amour. Further complications arose as the tale of Anita began to unwind. Dawson, the punning farmer, and the Gay Widow in
the person of the songstress, Ruth
Crandall, both decided that Billy
Like

to describe this part of the day’s|a bolt out of the Blue (Moon), how
program—‘excellent”’.

Phil Sargent then held the interest
of the audience by a number of piano
selections until the stage was set
for the Glee Club show, “Anita”.

GLEE CLUB SHOW

Handicapped by choruses which
failed to attend practices, accompaniment which could not be heard
by the dancers, and flood lights
which prevented the players from
seeing the baton of their conductor,
“Anita”, last Glee Club show of the
Season, failed to reach the high
standard set by “Marion’s Marryin’
Mee”, last year’s musical comedy
success, but was well received by the
crowd, spoiled as it has been by the
abilities displayed in “The Ghost

b dss «
wel er ate

ever, “Anita” was found, the Count
made happy, and the lovers were reunited. Then to finish everything off
in great style, Tilly decided that she
wanted to recite her poem, but unfortunately Anita proved that she
too could do a hundred words per
minute and gave the poetess great
competition, so great in fact that it

couldn’t have been better had it been )

rehearsed.

The show was followed by the last
Glee Club dance of the season, with
the usual multitude of stags, who

were fooled by the wise ones who |
danced on the stage, fewer cut-ins, |

and lasting to the rare hour of 12.30.
It marked a fitting climax to Munro
Day.

at Dalhousie University

but together they seemed to be unable to

  
      
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
      
 

interior of the Boat
Warren Beazley and Charlie
Anderson occupied the high-light of
the first. act and they were not
strongly supported by the choruses.
The story (if. musical comedies are
supposed to have stories) revolved
about some navy somewhere (we
wouldn’t dare to call it the British
Navy, for we are told that John
Bull’s tars remove their hats in the
company of ladies). Lieutenant Billy
Brown, in the person of Earle
Fraser, stole or bought the Count’s
Anita and sueceeded in being ostracized by all the members of the cast,
whose evil minds got the best of

continue the search.

Conservative was called
tenth time. His disgusted reply was,
“I’ve asked every
Law School that can open his mouth,
but they are all too

 

 

    

 

   

No. 20

Officers of the new Council of Students were elected on
Monday evening, headed by Hal Taylor, as president, the retiring head of the Glee Club, who was elected over John Fisher

by a vote of 9 to 1. Manning,

(Law) voted for Fisher. Ruth,

Summer was elected vice-president and Bob Maclellan, Gordon
Thompson, George Murphy were chosen as the executive ‘and
finance committee, and Isobel Fraser, Hal Taylor and Charlie
Manning form the representatives on the Committee of Nine:

John Fisher asked if the ne>
Council proposed to do anything
about his reform and re-awakening
movement. |
soon as someone had something to
propose a meeting would be called.

Meeting immediately after the
election of Council officials for next
year, the present Council convened,
granted permission to the Glee Club
and Sodales to give gold “D’s’”, and
gave Basketball $90, Sodales $45 and
Boxing $87.45.

The holding of the Junior-Senior
dance at the Nova Scotian on March
26 was sanctioned.

The basketball allotment was
granted to pay the bill presented by
those who feed the hungry cats.
Sodales’ $45 was to send Charlie
Manning to Truro, whence will come
representatives of other collegiate
debating unions and advertising
costs for the upcoming debate with
U.N. B. The boxing funds were to
send the team to St. F. X.

Permission was also granted the
senior class to arrange for a special
convocation issue of the Gazette. In
return for a promise to mail a copy
to every student, the Council agreed
to subsidize them to the extent of
the cost of a regular Gazette.

Wanted -- A Liberal

With a view to informing the
student body about the platforms of
the leading political parties in Canada, it was planned, several weeks
ago, to hold a panel debate on the
subject in the near future. The idea
was this: three students with decided political convictions—a Conservative, a Liberal and a C. C. F,,
would be allowed ten minutes each
to tell us why they thought their
party was the logical one to rule the
destinies of Canada. Opportunity
for questions was to follow.

A prominent Conservative on the
campus was approached. He modestly consented to be one of the three
speakers, and also volunteered to
obtain the cooperation of a Liberal
and a member of the C. C. F. group.
For the next week or so the Conservative was asked off and on as to
his luck in securing his two opponents. He said that he had spoken
to several prominent Dalhousie
Liberals, but they replied that they
were all too occupied with their
studies. The Conservative very
kindly and generously promised to
In the meantime a Political Science student was
secured as C. C. F. speaker. He im
 

mediately began collecting information, even sending to Ottawa for
material.

However, the Liberal

speaker was not yet forthcoming.
Finally, recently, the respected

for the

Liberal at the

 

 

busy!”

RICHTER LECTURE
ANNOUNCED

 

Dr. Lothar Richter, Professor
of German, will give the third in
his series of lectures on Developments in Post-War Germany, on
Firday evening, March 22, in the
Chemistry Theatre, the Science
Building, Studley, beginning at
8.15 p.m. The title of the lecture
is “Economic Developments”.

The lecture is free and open to
the public.

 

 

He was told that as|

DAL U. N. B. DEBATE
TONIGHT

  
 

The Dal Debaters led by Edward Arab, supported by Bernard
Andrews and Harvey Webber will
oppose the U. N. B. Representation this evening on the resolution
“Resolved that the economic un-—
rest of the world will necessitate
the application of the principles ~
of Socialism.”

Dr. Macgillivray will preside.
and the judges are Don F. Fraser,
M. L. A.. New Glasgow; F. W.
Baldwin, M. L. A., Baddeck, and
Rey. Dr. Kerr, Halifax.

Students admitted free on presentation of Council tickets. The.
debate will be held in the Gym ]/
at 8.00 p.m.

 

 

© o ®
Pine Hill Pen-Pricks

We have to récord this week what —
we would like to call “ disastrous
repercussion from the At-Home” but :
we are not sure that that memorable .
function was the source of the troti:
ble. In any case we hasten to record
it before it is forgotten.

That flower of the bloom of Capé
Breton manhood, of whom we have made mention befote as having difficulty in finding.:the right sort of
companionship for. the above-mentioned occasion, has apparently conié
to grief once more in a slightly different way. Seemingly his “feelings
was too much for: him”, and’ in the
depths of his despair he cried aloud
and, when taking, prayers, read with
sublime pathos, beginning at Proverbs 31:10—“Who can find a virtuous woman”,

Since then, however, he seems tohave gained fresh heart, and now
appears to be engaged in the search
as zealously as ever. His researches seem not to lack variety, but in
“pursuit of happiness” one of man’s
chief aims, who-are we to dampen
his ardour by any kind of remonstrance,

 

The Theologues held their annual
banquet for the graduating class last
week. We have no doubt that the
accustomed gravity and decorum _o
this affair prevailed once more. To
the uninitiated, however, this banquet remains a mystery. Why, for
instance, are not the Dean and other
professors invited to participate in
it? But such a time-honoured institution should not receive any criticism at the hands of the uninitiated.
We can, however, derive some sort
of satisfaction from the knowledge
that the affair is uncompromisingly
stag.

 

The local scandal sheet, the Pine
Hill Pepper-Box, is due to go into a
fresh edition soon, and as this is the
graduation number there will be
plenty of tall stories inserted by way
of biography of those students graduating.

The Pope has issued the annual
bull proclaiming the reign of silence.
The theologues have begun to study.
As a result of this ban and of the
time of year, almost everyone is
minding his own business, and very
little gossip'is transmitted. However, we hope that the issue of the
Pepper-Box will provide enough material to spin out for the rest of the
year. The Public must be satisfied,
and scandal is the only thing it appreciates. Of course, we don’t mean
everyone.

  
  
 
 
   
   
  
 
   
   
   
   
   
     
      
        
    
      
    
   
  
 
  

F
Ne
;

¥
" “
=
ve

    

oe area ame «
; r

\

   

— ee
alg

    

kh - ih ¥ ag ;
a a . ; + - . . ’ > c
re seek om rat a:
is, oe mal ye {eure » .
an eerie Pee pee
Po ee nti ek x et
ae. Se)

" - a. .
7 ° : _ : i
: = « Ce. | Ses
a * ~ *
' y

    
  

; =~

 

 

Founded 1869. “The Oldest College Paper in America”

 

EDITORIAL STAFF

Editors Pen
| UTHERLAND w. A.
a He 5833 B. 5827
News Editor Sports Editor
.CLELLAN BILL DAVIS
. wae B. 4384
Business Manag er Assistant
ARTHUR MEAGHER
ilk ees aps ee B. 2886

Other contributors to the Gazette this year include—

| isher, Nathan Green, Frank Goudge, Irving Pink,
i Macks, Art Merkel, Don Robb, Jim Beveridge, Dib
Ballem, Marg. Mitten, Ruth Wiegand, Fran Huntley, Margaret
Ferguson, Phyllis Burns, Ian MacKeigan, Doug Crease, Ed.
Arab, Bruce Ferguson, C. LeGrow, Neil Ferguson, Henry Ross,
‘Ed. MacLatchey, Eldon Eagles, Bob Maclellan, Len Saffron,
Bert Mayo, Ted Crease, Ed. Stewart, Fred MacDonald, Clary
Rosenbach, Charlie Bentley, Bob Dove, Don Ross and Gill Gladstone. °

 

 

Bd ae RESCUING

An Tndian was-erossing a lake in a canoe, accompanied

| by his aged mother and his bride of a few weeks. Suddenly

‘the canoe was overturned by a squall and all three were precipitated into the water. Neither of the women could swim
‘and he could rescue only one. Which should he save—his
mother, ‘whose usefulness was done, or his wife, with life before her? He saved his mother.
Perhaps he was wrong in his choice, but we should not be
‘too critical of his action: Every day, every year, we do something similar to the behaviour of the Indian. We cling
tenaciously to old beliefs, old doctrines, when new, perhaps
better though still untried, are pressing in upon us insistently. We thoughtlessly save the old because it has proved
worthy in the past, never thinking that its usefulness is done
-and never giving the new a chance to prove its claim for posltion in our philosophy.

We go on living in memories of the past, made beautiful

| ~ when seen through a veil of idealization and wishing that
_ those ‘good old days’, which really weren’t so good, would

return to us. What we should do is go out and make the
present and the future equal even the imagined splendour
of the romantic past.
_ We go on revering antiquity and merely accepting the
present as something necessary for existing, something to
produce the future. It is so much easier looking on the past
than facing the unknown to come.

The Indian knew what his mother was, for she had produced him. ‘How was he to know but that his wife would
produce imbeciles or monsters?
best.
where can we get another mother?

AVE!

With this issue the labours of the present management

thanks to all who have in any way aided them in their work.
During the past year some changes were made in the staff.
Whether the result has been satisfactory to our readers, we
cannot say.

We believe our paper, as a weekly, is second to none. It
is a position to maintain with pride, but it can only be retained by the willing and sincere co-operation of the Student
Body. There was a decided lack of interest in the paper this
year—our Essay contest had three poor entries and we could
not collect enough material written by students to enable

us to issue a Literary supplement. Apart from an occasional letter or notice, about twenty students supplied everything
that appeared in the columns.

Perhaps if prizes were offered there would be a greater
response—but no! ‘Ten volumes of Everyman were to be
given in the essay contest, a distinction letter is to be given
for contributions of merit if enough material is submitted—
but where is the dreamed-of copy? Still in the minds of you,
the readers. You read, you criticize, you condemn, but what
do you do about it? NOTHING! Show or give the paper
what you think it needs and what you want. Remember
that it is your paper for the expression of your opinion or
the publication of your literary efforts. You pay for it,
surely you should take enough interest to see that you get
your money’s worth.

We wish, too, that old graduates would enhance the
paper with their opinions, comment or contributions.

We can only wish success to those who follow us. We

entrust the destiny of the Gazette to them, with full confi
dence that their energy, ability and loyalty will warrant the
support of all.

Perhaps his choice was |
After all, the woods are full of potential wives, but!

~

RAMBLING

THAT COLLEGE GIRL

Are college girls franker today
than they use to be?

From our lengthy experience in
this realm we unhesitatingly answer
in the affirmative. The college girl
today has more courage and is willing to accept more responsibility.
She discusses any subject given her
on an equal footing with the male—
she takes part in all campus activities with great enthusiasm—and she
is much less gullible than her predecessor. Ten years ago college girls
didn’t worry much about money
(some still don’t). They had it,
spent it, and knew there was more
where it came from. Nowadays the
girls are far more serious — they
know all about family budgets and
just how much they are taking out
to finance their education.

Discussing this college girl, the
President of Bryn Mawr-has said:
“They are the finest girls that have
been in college.”

In short the cloistered girl of yesteryears has turned into a charming
and intelligent campus companion.

 

SO THEY CAN’T TAKE IT
It is always the way when a powerful group who have brushed aside
all opposition in their quest for both
shall we say political and athletic
supremacy suffer ignominous defeat
that they should like a drowning
man clutch at the only possible outlet—protest. And on what grounds?
Are we laughing at the antics of the
Management Committee—are we?
Everything — rules, regulations,
fair play — went by the boards and
the resultant decision of allowing
the protest would be laughable if one
were not to go deeper and see that
therein lies the foundation for much
future wrong. The situation now, if
one can fathom the Committee’s ruling, is that if a chap happens to
stand head and shoulders above all
players in that particular interfaculty sport and is eligible to play
by the D.A.A.C. regulations yet he is
ineligible. Why? He is ineligible
because he is eligible. It doesn’t
make sense. It is rather the setting
aside of the law to the satisfaction
of the powerful clique.
So they can’t take it!

 

THE PRESIDENT OF THE
COUNCIL

It has been suggested that the
President of the Students’ Council
should be elected by the whole student body directly rather than, as at
present, by the members of the
Council from among their own number. Sodales recently rushed through
a rather vague resolution in favour
of such a change. Let us consider
for a moment the pros and cons of
such a proposal.

The main advantages which are
claimed by such a “reform” are the
following:

(a) The Council President could

z I : |be chosen to represent the students
of the Gazette cease, and the Editors wish to extend sincere |

as a whole by the students as a
whole. The students themselves
would be able directly to ensure that
the President would be the best possible man for that high post.

(b) It is implied at least that by
such a change some of the most undesirable features of such an election
would be avoided, that undue combination of cliques, “log-rolling”,
fraternity pressure, ete., would be
eliminated.

There are a number of factors,
however, which weigh against, if
they do not outweigh the advantages enumerated.

(a) It has not been stated whether the candidates for Presidency
under the proposed system would be
| taken from among the elected Coun;cil representatives or would be
|nominated at a mass meeting. If the
latter alternative should be chosen,
there would be many difficulties encountered with regard to nomination
which would not be easily avoided.
How would it be possible to prevent
combination, “ganging”, forcin g
through of nominations?

(b) No matter which alternative is
‘chosen the same difficulties mentioned above would arise in electing.
Conditions in this respect might perhaps be even worse than under the
present system. Without the ballot,
whose use at a mass meeting would
be difficult, much undesirable indirect pressure might be brought to
bear on the individual who is: voting.

 

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

Something
To Think About

 

This week a _ local _ theatre
brought to its sereen a feature
| which every radio listener has
looked forward to for the past
two years—‘“March of Time”—a
news short which acts out and
sets before the eyes of the public
a realistic account of present day
events of imminent importance.
The marvellous part of this whole
picture is the fact that all these
scenes which cover the globe are
all made in either Hollywood or
New York. No camera man goes
about gathering these scenes—
they are all made up, including
the characters—a true innovation
in the moving picture industry.

 

On Monday of this week the
Students’ Council voted $35.00 for
a dinner and dance at the Nova
Scotian Hotel for the members of
the Council. This should give
every student food for thought.

Bruno Frank’s book, “A Man
Called Cervantes”, has been selected as the book of the month for
March. For style, material and
good reading no better selection
could have been made. The name,
“Don Quixote”, is known by every
person, young and old, who is acquainted with English literature.
To get a fuller and better understanding of this character one
should not fail to read this book
by Mr. Frank.

  
    
 

 

Cuba is in revolt again. There
was a time when such an uprising
would be news; now, with so much
trouble in every corner of the
world, particularly Greece, China,
and Ethiopia, trouble in Cuba is
not even given a second thought
by the public in general.

 

Samuel Insull is in court again,
as defendant. This time on a
charge of embezzlement, made by
the State of Illinois. He was accused of taking $66,000 from his
Middle West Utilities Company to
strengthen the brokerage account
of his brother partner. The defence
is that it was a simple loan; not
embezzlement but bad judgment.
Whether additional charges
against Insull will be quashed depends on the outcome of the present trial. In any case there are
other indictments pending.

 

Flags and banners covered the
public and private buildings of
Czechoslovakia last Thursday.
Telegrams and letters from presidents, kings and the less exalted
poured into Prague. Thomas Garrigue Masaryk, the George Washington of his country, was 85
years old.

The son of an illiterate Slovak
coachman, Masaryk started at the
blacksmith’s forge; attended the
University of Vienna; learned to
hate oppression; married an American girl, Miss Charlotte Garrigul; became a professor Philosophy; entered Austrian parliament;

(Continued on Page Three)

eae set

(d) There would be difficulties,
perhaps not insurmountable, with regard to the question of the responsibility of the President, particularly
if he is not nominated from among
the regularly-elected Council members. At present, we understand, the
Council President may be removed
by the Council if his actions become
too objectionable,

On the whole, the present writer
is opposed to a change in the system of electing the Council President. This does not mean that there
is nothing wrong with our present
political system. We feel, however,
that some of the other suggestions
brought forward might be more
fruitful. The representatives should
be elected solely by the bodies they
are supposed to represent; and, what
is even more important, they should
be made to feel that hey are responsible for their actions to their constitutents; meetings might be called
occasionally at which they could be
called upon to justify their actions
if need be. In any cases, whatever
changes may be made, more thought
should be given to them than was
given by the students to the resolu
tion passed at Sodales Tuesday
noon.

 

Friday, March 15

POET’S CORNER

SPIRIT OF THE NIGHT
Lonely on an ocean breeze;
Left with only memories,

So I wander from my waking till the close of every day;
But each fading twilight brings

Night on swift and silent wings,

And my heart with joy is breaking as I hear her softly say:

 

 

 

“Steal away and come with

By the softly-pulsing sea;

Run with me upon the sand;

Clasp my fingers in your hand;
Whisper words deliciously:

Make the moment you have planned
Live in sweet reality!”

Through the day with all its longing

Come the hungry yearnings thronging

Down the narrow aisles of dreaming like a horde of mocking apes:
Faces twitching and contorting,

As they halt their mad cavorting,

Form a horrid, slow procession passing by with leers and gapes
Till my heart is rent asunder—

Then into my troubled slumber

Like a peal of distant thunder,

Soft, commanding, comes the Night voice and my tortured soul escapes.

Spirit of the Night, I’d rather

Ride the winds with thee and gather

Fragrance of the breathing roses wafted sweet upon the air;
Stand in breathless, list’ning rapture

"Neath the summer sky and capture

Silver melodies of star-dust playing o’er Diana’s flare;

Fly with thee and watch the shading

Of a wond’rous sunset fading

Like a rainbow host parading

Through the azure streets of Heaven, war on shadows to declare.

How I loathe the chill of dawning:

Misty earth-bound spectres fawning

To be spared the searing passion of the Sun-king’s burning kiss.
Yet the King, himself, goes sneaking,

Tired by unrewarded seeking

Through the ages for the finding of a lover’s deathless bliss.
Through the ages he must wander,

All his golden treasure squander,

Never grumble, never maunder,

So there’s nothing in Creation lonelier than Sunlight is.

But with Night there comes the yearning
Of a heart which seeks the learning

Of the unfamiliar beauty in the most familiar things:
In a quiet river’s flowing,
Dying embers softly glowing,

In the furtive message hidden in the flashing whir of wings.

Music in the breeze’s sighing,

Beauty in a floweret dying,
Rapture in a swallow flying,

Seen before the evening Vespers while the final calling rings.

Lonely as a desert breeze,

Living with my memories,

So I’ve wandered from my waking till the fading of the light.
But soon a distant sighing,

Mysteriously crying,

Sets my hungry heart to making preparation for the Night.

Now the sunset’s ruby glow
Fading from the world below
Golden memories recall

Of a voice which could enthrall
Like no other than I know.
Soft, again, I hear her call:
“Come, my lover!”—and I go.

 

 

Come and Get It -
Topeoats for everybody. Harris Tweeds,
Camel Fleece, Covert and Gabardine, in all
the new, snappy styles. ... This year we
are featuring the famed SOCIETY BRAND
clothes at prices that are surprisingly low

for this quality garment.

 

TOPCOATS
range from

$] 6°? to $9 5:00

 

Shane's Men’s Shop

30 SPRING GARDEN ROAD

DAL STUDENTS’ RATE A DISCOUNT OF 10%

 
  
  
   
   
    
   
   
  
 
 
  
  

%.'s
to ew

7

' P
"

cs rr.

rs,

714 =
4
mS
2
A

 

_ the loudest will be the ones who

a
i,

once again in the Lande of Dal

Vhote, and as use-you-al only a few

Dhal’s children partook of the
ance to vhote for those who are
be the chare-takers of there ten
uks for the yhear to komn. There
ll be leetle doubt but that nhext
is many will shout alowd that
eir Bhuks are being whasted, and
it will be justt hose who clamour

ms
;

looketh not after there vhotes. But

_ too the Olde Counsel of Studes is to

blame for the fewness of the vhotes,

for it was they who sayeth very

leetle regarding the dhate of the
Elexion. There leetle noteeces were
hardly seen by the Studes, and as

Studes had their Any-you-ahl

 

pure Fhun, and all who seeth not as
such, were naught but phur sports.
All will rekall the early pannings
of the Great Iron Duke Kakkevor,
and then of Benyett’s Feesher. But
they could take eet well, and all was
thrown off with a smile. And then,
too, the bhutiful girls of Shee-ReffYoyl received their share nocks; but
they too being both whise and bhutiful, sayeth nothing—at leest hardly
nothing. The Glee Club Shows
had there share of Pans, and they
just turned and benefited by there
meestakes, until the Ghosts of
Tranes made up for all, and for
many weeks the studes marvelleth
at there grateness.

5. Then in the Feeld of Sports
the Nhoble Warriors of the Peeg|skin, took there raps not without

 

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Dalhousie? KARMA

How much longer are intelligent) He came in late to church that
Dalhousians to be insulted by a ridi-| morning. Yet even his lateness did
culous approach to the question:|not ruffle the serene surface ‘of his
“What is Wrong with Dalhousie?”|mind. For the first time in his life
Nothing can be wrong with Dal-|he felt confident, at ease. He had
housie that is not wrong with Dal-|siven much attention to his appearhousians and surely the average|ance today; the set of his tie had
Dalhousian is not the unthinking in-|pothered him, and he pulled it now
dividual that most of our student/ self-consciously, but he knew that it
orators assume him to be. was good. He had risen, slowly and

It is rather difficult to be sure} painfully, from the position of erupon what grounds this question has|rand-boy to that of head of the debeen raised. I rather suspect that|partment. He had never married,
Mr. Fisher in particular refers to|for he was aware of always being
the lack of so-called Dalhousie spirit.| accepted with reservations. He felt
But after all, is something wrong|no one was perfectly frank with
when students do not desire to be/him, and a part of his mind was
seen shouting imanities from the|thus ever closed. He had a great
football bleachers. Is something|/humility; he realized that his
wrong when students to whom three|thoughts were limited, that his
dollars represents the healthiest part | ideas were hide-bound. The tentacles
of a meal ticket show no interest in| of his mind, in their tortuous reach
‘salt, and they remembereth not to
_use-you-al they were steengy with 1.45 in training, and many times
_ there signs clamouring the dhates|tne sweet leequeed touched there
_ of the vote. Even the kolumns of leeps. There result was destruxion
the Gaz sayeth nhot a whord about but nhext year they will heed the
the dhates. And yhet it is expected | words of the whise. Those who
that the Cheelddren of Dal turn out ohaseth the puck, were sorely pouned
in grate nhumbers. The fault lieth espeshyally the feerce Tigers who
nhot in ourselves but in our leeders |) oareth loudly but biteth not. The

they forgetteth all but there owne. hinders of the Basket and the chas
2. But though the nhumbers of ;¢7S of the Ball were the heroes of
the vhoters were small that does|the champus, as once again they brot
not say that the Elexion lacked ex-|home to Dal the Nova Skosha
citemhent. For it was in the quiet|Champ-yon-sheep. They heeded the
- Lhande of the Pullers of Teeth that | adivse of beeg Jeem and little Sterrthere were only thirty-eight vhot- | leeng, they were whise and naught
ing. Let, lo, when the vhotes were ; but veektory shall be there’s.
added there were found to be but] 6, Then too the Mighty Nhoble
_.___ thirty-nhine. The problem puz-zled and learned Counsel of Studes were
____all the Dhents, and soon the Myss-|the centres of Krity-Sism. But
_ + +‘Tyree was solved. It seemeth that) surely that was not mere puffing.
there was among the Tooth-Pullers;They mhade meestakes and plenty,

one who pulleth vhotes. Twas skan- too; but they were whise in mhany
____ dal and cheeting; but yet the skown-|ways, and even the whisest are
'__ drel goeth unpunished. The Nhoble|sometimes wron. It is hoped that

Counsel of Studes sayeth nhot a!the nhew Counsel will benefit from
word, instead of holding up the/the olde, accept there gude poynts
cheet as an Xmple for all times.|and diskard the bhad.

 - 8. And, too, with this ishyou of} 7. But nhow all shall cease. The
the Gaz-Jett the terme of the Col-|lettle world of Dal shall become
oes lege Rhag cometh to an ende. Once] quiet and peaceful as the lull before
_ again the Children of Dal are plan-|the storm. The cheeldren of Dal
ning to settle down to more sereeous|shall settle unto there bhooks, and
ie theengs. The Xms are lurking in|queekly instil knolege unto there
the hack, and there will be leetle|}branes. There shall be no mhore
time for anything else. Dances and|need for the Chronicler of Bunk, so

‘‘ _ mheetings of the Counsel of Studes|as he came he will away, no more
_____ will be no mhore; the sun will soon|to tell of tale of Dal, no mhore to
| __— be shining brightly, and this is a]wheesper wise words unto the ChilSigne that the Skribblers of the Gaz|dren of Dal. All that hath Passed is
ae ean find nothing about which to}]Fondly Forgiven and all that shall
, , come is hopefully awaiteth for. May

-___ Skribble.

ae the Nhew Yheer bring a Nhew Joy
| _-—- 4.:«*The yheer that has past has and a Nhew Speeret unto the Chil____ been a yheer of Fhun and Frolik.) ren of Dal; and lastly a Nhew and
io All hath taken there share of phan-|),; 4. pray, whise Council
| nings, and the Chronicler of Bunk] ciuges, go let it be, and thereby
is no xception. But it was all in ends Tha Tale of Banck.

att

  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
   
  
   
 
 
  

 

i

 

 

 
 
  
       
     

DELICIOUS

FLAVOUR —

makes it the most
popular chocolate
barin Canada

   
     

x
“ *
ae ‘ : ti
at
eth saraa ays es
ESE
| THE
7
i +, = T Ria
7 tr Me
P aad Peete ee tt thee
+. EAS

a a
~ x

: =
i A ¢

 

 

«
- 4
'
ks
a ‘
> og

i

  

  

   
   

 

 

a three dollar Year Book? Is something wrong when only a quarter of
our student body will pay five dollars
for the privilege of dancing with the
engineers? Is something wrong
when a library or a laboratory appeals to Dalhousians more than a
basketball game or a minstrel show?
If it is to these aspects of the situation that Mr. Fisher refers, I should
say that Dalhousie cannot go too far
in the wrong direction.

I should also like to suggest that
perhaps our footballers, basketballers, hockeyists and Glee Club performers are not doing these things
for dear old Dalhousie so much as
beeause they enjoy doing them. I
should even go so far as to suggest
that perhaps Mr. Fisher, being a
good talker, started this discussion

because it provided an excellent op
portunity for him to talk. Then, I
say, a student who prefers the li
brary or the laboratory to any of

thése pursuits should be permitted
to enjoy them without being branded a traitor to his university week
after week by a newspaper which
derives a certain measure of support
from his taxes. Instead this same
newspaper glorifies the student who
trots off to Acadia to play football
or basketball leaving a trail of
plucks behind them. Is it to this
that our universities have come after
their glorious history of the past few
centuries ?

No doubt our reformers do not
appreciate the circumstances under
which many of our students attend
Dalhousie. I am sure they have no
conception of the number that are
working in their spare hours. Some
are doing typing, others are doing

of part-time office work, several are on

the newspapers, many more are tu
‘toring and there have been several

very remarkable cases of boys who
played in orchestras. Moreover, an
increasing number of students find
that writing good examination papers is a financial necessity. Scholar
ships have kept many a needy Dal
housian on the campus. It is not
strange that these students faced
with the necessity of earning a living as well as being mere university
inmates should be apathetic toward
student organizations. But it is these
students, many of them the most
solid Dalhousians of all, that our
student leaders insult when they demand our return to the irresponsible
back-slapping, war-whooping, gatecrashing conditions of post - war
Dalhousie.

Perhaps I am misinterpreting Mr.
Fisher and his allies. Perhaps he
refers to the abominable Dalhousie
custom of wholesale note-taking.
Perhaps he refers to the shortage of
creative ability among Dalhousie
students as witnessed by the lack of
interest in our English prizes. Perhaps he refers to the presence of
students in the university who remove books and periodicals from our

\reading-rooms. These are serious as- |
pects of Dalhousie student life, not

to be compared with such trivialities
as the fact that Dalhousians evidently prefer the Capitol with “David
Copperfield” on Saturday afternoons
to a clammy bench in our empty
Forum.

After all, what is the purpose of

a university? Apparently the student leaders of Dalhousie are labor
ing under the impression that Dal
housie is merely one of the several
exclusive clubs for the
young people of the
Provinces.

ations in Halifax alone.

favored
Maritime
That being the case we
could as well spend our time at the
Waegwoltic, the Y.M.C.A., the Wanderers, the Theatre Arts Guild, at
any one or all of dozens of organizBut the
function of a university is to train

ings, had never been met with understanding and compassion. Yet
today he was happy. He was going
to Margaret’s home for dinner. He
knew that the half-felt sympathy
that was already between them
would be deepened and crystallized.
He would be at his best today and
she would be proud of him. He
glanced down at his clothes conscientiously—impeccable? no, there
was a bit of floss. He picked it off,
flicking his fingers daintily. He
heard nothing of the service; his
body rose and knelt, his mind was
on the happy vision of himself being suave and witty at the dinnertable of Margaret’s parents.

He was suave and witty; he made
himself liked with an aplomb of
which he had not believed himself
capable. As dinner progressed, he
saw their liking grow into respect
and pride that so urbane a man
was their guest. He saw Margaret
meet his glance with a slight blush
on her cheeks and an awakening
glow in her eyes. He felt at ease;
he became humorous, and he knew
that his hosts laughed with him.
And as they rose for coffee, he
thought, “Shall I ask her today ?
She can refuse me nothing today.”

They passed a small hall-mirror
on their way to the drawing-room.
He gazed into it. He wondered if
he looked differently. ‘What was
that? No, surely not. Yes, there it
was. A small bit of lather just over
his left ear. He put up his hand
desperately, but it had dried, clinging to his hair. He was stricken,
deflated. All his pleasant self-confidence had gone.

He said nothing as they drank
their coffee. His hosts found themselves talking to a stranger. He
escaped as quickly as he could, saying his goodbyes awkwardly and refusing to meet Margaret’s eyes.
arenes sepia ee,
the minds of its students and to develop their ideas, not to train their
bodies or to provide them with social
recreation. Truly, these functions
may well be fulfilled by a university,
but we must realize that they are
not necessary adjuncts to the idea
of a university at all.

I am convinced that Dalhousie’s
problems are only the problems of
the world at large. Are not our student politics the same standing joke
that our national democratic institutions have become? Are not many
of our students worried, seeing no
world of opportunity beckoning beyond convocation? In the role of a
speculator I should like to suggest
that Dalhousie is merely witnessing
a scene in the evolution of mind. We
have built a part of our civilization
on brain, and it is continually run
 

ning foul of that other greater part |

| which is built on brawn.
| beings, or better, as
‘instinct for survival
think our way out of this intolerable

 

 

 

 

|
Where

in the Evening?

Why, The Green Lantern, of course, with
attractive

its cosy,

 

“Canterbury Room”’.

|
You'll like it. |

 

_—_——— OO —- )COn—a
—"_N—_)2?0whmh = 
Page Three

 

    

sss

 

   
 

SAVE THE

situation ?
way out, for we have proven many
times that we can no longer fight
our way out. Thought has become
man’s one great defense against the
external world and if man is not to
go down to extinction in the immediate eras to come he must think
himself out of his problems as the
other animals fight themselves out of
theirs. And that is where the universities enter the picture. With
their libraries and laboratories, with
all their facilities for advanced
study, the universities have the
power to produce the thinkers which
our world so sadly needs.

Are we as Dalhousians seeking to
avoid the slaughter of another ten
million by international insanity?
Are we as Dalhousians seeking to
lift the majority of our people
from lives of filth and ignorance in
the slums? Are we as Dalhousians
seeking to build a society in which
such physcological functions as sex
and nutrition can assume the normal,
healthy roles which they possessed
in the lives of our more primitive
forebears? In short, are we as
Dalhousians seeking to give to future generations a life worth living
in contrast to our own lives which
admittedly are not? These are the
tests of a living Dalhousie, a living
Dalhousie which need be nothing
more than a thinking Dalhousie.

On this basis and this alone, not
by fussing about fraternities and
football, can we judge Dalhousie as
a university Thus far our student
welfare leaders have judged Dalhousie as a social club for adole- |
scents. I should suggest in future,

if only to relieve the monotony of

current ideas on the subject, that
these men judge Dalhousie only as
a university and Dalhousians only
university men and women. Under
the circumstances perhaps I may be
forgiven for such idealism.

 

 

Halifax Transfer
a thy 2138

As human
animals with an!
are we going to!

 

Silver toiletware — a gift
of quality and lasting
: beauty.

Open stock patterns permit purchasing individual
pieces from a few dollars
upwards.

| Henry Birks & Sons

Limited
DIAMOND MERCHANTS
Halifax, N. S.

 

 

BROTHER NOTHING TAKES THE
PLAC LY START

     

EOF AN EA
Siti

  

that Turret Cigarettes are
the big favourite eveywhere.
Why not switch to Turrets
now? Nothing like an early
start to prove that Turret
goodness is no dream.
Turrets are mild, mellow and
satisfying—that’s why they
ring the bell

Quality and Mildness

urret

CIGARETTES

POKER HANDS

 

(CONTINUED FROM PAGE TWO)
made a globe encircling odyssey
which helped to destroy the once
mighty Hapsburg Empire; created
a State and became the first and,
thus far, only President.

 

On Sunday the D, A. A. C. declared Jack Buckley as ineligible
to play on the Law hockey team,
following a protest by Medicine
after they had lost to Law. The
constitution declared that a man
in Buckley’s status and his ability
was ineligible. It seems, however,
that there was very little known
about this same constitution; in

We can only think our SOMETHING TO THINK ABOUT

fact it is understood that no one .

knew where it was, and until Mr.
Thompson took it upon himself to

compile one from whatever records
he could

 

Hitler’s cold is somewhat better
after the British chill. Berlin anger over the London White Paper
has been followed by a new invitation to Sir John Simon. The White
Paper left no doubt that it was
fear of attack from Germany
which caused the government to
increase Britain’s defences.

There may remain some hope for
disarmament, but without being
over-pessimistic this is very much
doubted.

 

This issue marks the last copy
of the Gazette for this year. What

will the student body have to pan
now?

 

HALIFAX TAXI CO.

At your

Service B-73 76

Lowest Rate to Students.

 

 

 

 

G.A McDonald

TOBACCONIST

 

Smokers’ Requisites of Every
Description.

A Complete Stock of
CIGARS, CIGARETTES,

TOBACCO & BRIAR PIPES.

21 Spring Garden Road
Halifax

MacLeod, Balcom

Limited

DRUGGIST

Halifax and Bedford

 

a

a

 
   
  

   

A
wy
*

ia.
ee

ae a
}


     
 

“*' a
ae

im.
=
i

i Pi es,
a
a ‘ *
He oy e

‘a e
| a a as

=e
t= *

ne
er

a
‘

ig a

 

  
   
   
     
   
 
  
 
 
  
  

7 _—

= =
iat,

dies.)

ra te

a
'

oe

ba me
BE ine

q - f:
i
. E
f 7
a an ——= *
. 4 —%
e al

Pedy ce
endear
ah .

 

 

ee 
g and Wessling Meet —
leases Dal Sport Followers

In one of the best boxing shows ever staged for Dal fans,

FE two Dal championships were decided, and four fast exhibition

bouts kept the fans on edge the whole evening. Following the

ae meet the fans were given a chance to size up the best| three championship basketball teams this year.
0

the Dal wrestlers as they tossed one another around.

The first bout on the card brought
together Max Abelson, who repre
sented Dal in last year’s intercol
legiate fights, and Harry Gaum, one
of the hardest punching middleweights to represent the college in
years. The bout opened fast, with
Gaum doing most of the leading.
Abelson was outboxing Harry, but
slowed up when Gaum landed several stiff punches to the jaw and
solar plexus. In the second Abelson
appeared in better condition than
Gaum, but lost points by slipping to
the floor several times. The boys
mixed it up plenty in the third
round, Gaum got a close decision
because of his heavier punching and
his doing all the leading.

Karl Krantz and Mike Hinchey
put on three fast rounds. Although
Mike gave away fourteen pounds
and clearly showed the effects of a
recent attack of the “flu”, he stayed
with his heavier opponent, who was
inclined to take things easy. In the
second round Karl opened up and his
fast in-fighting tired Hinchey. The
third round showed that it was a
case of a good welterweight fighting
a good middleweight, both boys
landing hard, with Hinchey’s poor
condition telling on him near the
end.

John Jarvie and Henry Reardon
put on another fast exhibition bout.
Jarvie showed marked improvement
over the form he displayed last
year. With the aid of his handler,
“Hooker” McDonald, he fought a
heady fight, proving to the fans that
he will be a worthy representative
in the featherweight class.

Reardon, a new comer to Dal,
spotted his opponent six rounds, but
showed no shyness in stepping in
and mixing it with his heavier opponent. A fast boxer, Reardon
should have no trouble in taking his
class in the St. F. X. meet.

_ Hymie Magonet and Abe Becker

- put the crowd in good humor by

clowning through three rounds. In
the second round both boys forgot

_ themselves and landed a couple of

_ punches, and it looked as if it might
develop into a scrap, but they started wrestling again and the bell
sounded to break a clinch which had
lasted over a half minute without
the referee noticing it.

In an elimination bout for the welterweight championship of Dal,
Austin McDonald proved no match
for the veteran Glorioso, and his
seconds threw in the towel within a
minute after the fight had started
and before his opponent had laid a
glove on “Glory”.

Since coming to Dal four years

 

CoRLS’ BASKETBALL

Although not playing over the
week-end, Dal Co-Eds were placed
in an advantageous position in the
League by virtue of Mt. A. defeating Acadia at Sackville by a
close margin of 22-20. A win for
the Valley girls would have put
them in a tie with Dalhousie; the
loss, however, keeps Dal in first
place. Should they defeat Mt. A.
in their final game at Sackville
the title comes to Halifax. A loss,
however, gives Mt. A. a chance
at the title, or a three-cornered
tie, should Acadia defeat Mt. A.
at Wolfville.

  

ee

ago “Glory” has established himself as one of the few dependables
in Dal boxing circles. With the exception of a close decision which he
dropped three years ago, when
forced to sweat five pounds off on
the day of a fight, Glorioso has
never been extended. By experience
the fans now know that any fighter

  
 
     
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
     
   
   

 

a te

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

a

SPORT REVIEW

   

 

(By ED STEWART)

The chances are very bright that Dalhousie will have
The Tigers,

by their 52-37 victory over Wanderers last Saturday at the

Y.M.C.A., which, incidentally, was their best game of the season, are now Provincial Senior Champions, and the Cubs, by
their 30-16 win over the Halifax Academy on Monday are
City Intermediate champs. The Tigers will play the winner
of the New Brunswick totle at New Brunswick, and the Cubs
will play a home and home series with Acadia. The girls too
have a more than even chance to win their league. They
meet Mt. Allison at Sackville next Saturday and if they win
this game they win the league. Their team will be strengthened by the return of Isabel Fraser, star centre, who has
been out with a sprained ankle.

In their playoff games with Acadia the Cubs will be
without the services of Chuck Lorway, star centre, who played his second game in senior company against the Wanderers last Saturday.

The Maritime Intercollegiate Track and Field Championships will be held at Acadia on May 17th, instead of at U.

N. B. to whom they were awarded but who could not accept
them.

The softball schedule is now completed with Pine Hill in
first place and Dentistry and Arts and Science tied for sec
that was ever unfortunate enough| ond.'lhese two teams will play off to see who will play the
to find himself in the same ring Theologs for the title.

as “Glory” is usually wise enough
to hunt up an excuse rather than to
get in the ring with him again.
Ed. Arab, present bantamweight
intercollegiate champion, went three
fast rounds with Jack Rapsay, former ’Vasrity champ. The boys mixed it up and the crowd were treated
to a mixture of fast clever boxing
and heavy clouting. The bout was
close all the way and proved a real

 

j}exciting tussle took the first of a
three series game from Law by a
one point margin.
a decisive victory to eliminate Dentistry the previous day, failed to

 

game was by far the cleanest seen
in the League this season due to the
capable refereeing of Professor Jim
McDonald, Don Bauld and Bill Gladstone.

Interfaculty League

BASKETBALL

Medicine Basketballers in a most

 

MEDICINE 26—LAW 25
With both teams anxious for a
victory close guarding was the or
Law, fresh from

a

ee

Friday, March 15

 

        
         
  

  

Make your old hat do for spring
We'll recondition it like new for 50c.
And if your Shoes Need Fixin’

WE CALL AND DELIVER
THE CAPITOL SHOE REPAIR

44-46 SACKVILLE ST. Just Phone B-8566

 

EE LE EE

   

 

 

CASINO

Starting Saturday

Clive of
India

Starring

 
  
  
   
  
  

The Real Vallee, with Ann
Dvorak in a story of heartthrobs and music . . .Fri.,
Sat., Mon.

SWEET MUSIC

Starting MAR. 22

THE SCARLET
Ronald Coleman PIMPERNEL
with LESLIE HOWARD

Loretta Young

4 Stars in Liberty

 

Tigers and Cubs Win Again
To Clinch City Basketball

Adding another to their long string of victories, the 1934
Maritime champions, Dal Tigers, by virtue of a decisive victory
over Halifax Wanderers, emerged undisputed City League
titilists. Although a home game is yet to be played at Studley
with Acadia, no other team of the League is in a threatening
place and Dalhousie is in a position to play off with New
Brunswick for the Maritime crown for 1935.

By defeating Halifax Academy in their final league game,
Mr. Stirling’s Cubs brought a second title to Dal in a week—
the City Intermediate title. The Cubs will in all probability
stack up against their rivals, the Acadia Intermediates, in the
Nova Scotia semi-finals within the next two weeks.

 

TIGERS SWAMP WANDERERS INTERMEDIATES DEFEAT

show the team-work that put them
into the finals.

LAW 24—DENTISTRY 12

Both teams started off with close

Following the bouts three wrest-|man-to-man guarding from the openling matches were put, the most}ing whistle and for five minutes the
spectacular of which was that staged|play went from end to end without
by the two King’s men, “Monk”|a score. Charlie Miller put his team
Smith and “Toto” Ingham. The|up three on a field goal followed by
crowd was pleased with the business|a foul shot. On another by Miller,
like manner in which these boys|from centre floor, Law took a five to
threw one another around and were |nothing lead. Goldman then gavc
brought to their feet when Smith|Dents their first tally only to have

crowd pleaser, with Rapsay’s showing stamping him as one of the best
amateurs to show in Halifax in
some time.

 
 
  

picked his opponent up for an aeroplane whirl before pinning Ingham’s shoulders to the mat.

Jack Victor played with M. Lipitz
for a while before he got his shoulders on the mat, while Devereaux
won his bout with Conrad.

Jack McDonald refereed the boxing bouts
wrestling.

Hughie MacGlashen and Neil Ferguson were timers, and Mr. Stirling
and Gord. Archibald judged the boxing bouts. The announcer was John
Fisher.

éatonia

FELT

HATS

Top off your new Spring ensemble with one of these

crisp, new, smartly styled

EATONIA hats. Newest

shapes and shades of the new season. Expertly made
of fur felt—finely trimmed.

=" 4.50

Eaton’s—Second Floor

“T.EATON CO

LIMITED

 

Hal Connor, Law centre, add one.

der of the day in the opening league
title game. Medicine, howver, led
by the scoring of Jerry Lebourtz
and Bob MacLellan managed to
scrape out a narrow one point lead
to give them a one game advantage.

Hal Connor, Law centre, opened
the scoring on a rebound under the
basket only to have Bob MacLellan
tie it up soon after for Meds. Jerry
Lebowitz’s long shot put the doctors
2 up, but Law took the lead soon
after on scores by Charlie Miller and
Bill Davis.

Russ MacLellan, speady forward,

52—37

Led by the spectacular playing of
had
little trouble eliminating the always

Donnie Bauld, the collegians

dangerous Reds in their final sched
uled game at the “Y”. Overcoming
an early lead of four points by
Wanderers, the unbeatable Dal machine started working to register 11
points before the Reds again scored.
Bill Gladstone, Don Bauld and Mit
Musgrave were the successful actors in this sudden attack of the

H. C. A. —30-16
Coming out of a first period slump
the Cubs successfully warded off an
H. C. A. threat to finish atop of the

league. Minus their dependable
center, Chuck Lorway, the Cubs
failed to find their stride -in the

first half, but led by the spectacular
shooting of their guard, Leo’ Simmonds and Maurice Dean, they took
the lead in the second.

FIRST HALF: DAL, 9; H.C.A,, 11.
The Academy youths drew the

and- Abe Becker the|™ore points for a 11-5 score to end

‘play in hand and displayed excep
Tom Rogers added another for Dentistry the score now being 7-4.
Harry Heflich, Dents guard, eut the
Law lead to two points as he scored
on a penalty shot. On combination
passes from Innes McLeod and Bill
Davis, Law guards, Connor add four

tied the score at the start of the
second. Each team scored basket for
basket and with a minute to go the
score was still a tie at 25-all. Law
lost a forward at this time on fouls
as Charlie Miller was banished to
be replaced by George Thompson.
Portnay, Med., scoring on Miller’s
foul gave his team a single point
lead which they carefully guarded
until the final whistle. Hal Connor,
proved to be the big scorer with 11
points to his credit. These two teams
are to meet on Saturday for the second game, a win for Meds. gives
them the title while a victory for
Law will necessitate a third game.

Law—Don Ross 8, Hal Connor 11,
Innes McLeod 5, Charlie Miller 4,
Bill Davis 2, George Thompson, Dan
Harvey.

Medicine—Ross MacLellan 4, Bob
MacLellan 8, Jerry Lebowitz 8, Abe
Mandelstan 3, Portnay 3.

Referees: Paul
crease,

the first half.

Starting off with a stiff attack in
the second frame Dentistry again cut
down the winners lead to two points
on field goals by Goldman and Bernie Lipschitz. Law came back strong
to increase their margin on close-in
shots by Big Don Ross and Connor.
A foul shot scored by Rogers added
another for Dentistry. For the remainder of the game Law took the

tional team work while Dentistry
could add but one field goal. The

 

 

Goldman, Ted

 

GAUVIN
AND
GENTZEL

Photographers to

DALHOUSIE
UNIVERSITY

_

Summer Employment
Apply to
MR. L. F. BANKS

309 Barrington Street
or Phone B-5345 between 12 to 2,
or 5 to 8 P. M.

 

 

“Let the Laundry do it”
81-85 West St. Garrick St.

Halifax Steam Laundry
Limited
Tel. L. 2300, L. 2309, L. 1618

Special Rates to Established 1877.

STUDENTS

 

 

 

 

24 Hour Finishing Souvenir
Service
Postcards
See Our Pictorial of

Work for Gifts

—_—

Dalhousie University
A Set of 12 for 25c

Now on Sale at

DALHOUSIE UNIVERSITY
STORE

18 Spring Gardren Rd
Phone B. 6992

 

 

| Bauld,

 

first score in the opening stanza to
take a lead of 3 points. Leo Simmonds slipped in from guard for
Dal’s first score and Leo Green tied
it up on a foul. From then on the
play went evenly, with the college
representatives 2 points behind at
the close, Dal’s nine points being
chalked up by Leon Green with
and Leo Simmonds 4.

collegians. The scoring-bee of the
Tigers was stopped momentarily as
a Red warrior added a point by the
foul shot route. Once again the
Bengals surged forward with eight
more points to keep an enviable lead
at 19—5. The Reds again drew
blood, only to have their opponents,
always superior on retaliation, bring
their total to 24. Two neat scores
from the side kept Wanderers in the
picture, then two clean baskets by
Ted Crease ended the half, with -Dal
leading, 28—12.

5

CUBS ON SCORING SPREE
IN THE SECOND.

Starting off in a whirlwind the
determined young Bengals ran
rough-shod through the Academy
for 13 points, to bring the tally
22—11 in their favor before their
opponents could score. From then
on there was no doubt as to the
outcome, the Academy scoring but
5 points in the half. Maurice Dean,
Leo Simmonds and Cy Miller were
the leaders for Dal in this half.

Dal—Simons, Stewart, D. Eys
K. Sullivan, 2; Leo Green, 7; M.
Dean, 7; Cy Miller, 4; O. Serlin, Leo
Simmonds, 10.

REDS HOLD TIGERS IN SECOND.

Play evened up in the final frame
when Dal put several subs into play,
with the result that the Reds
emerged from the half with a one
point margin in scoring. The 16
point lead in the first was too much
for the losers to overcome. Sam
Fairstein started the scoring in the
second half with two baskets. Meanwhile the Wanderers’ sharp-shooters
were laying a barrage of baskets,
clipping the Dal lead. Two basket:
by Ted and Doug Crease helped
Dal, but Dal’s big lead was cut
six points. Donnie Bauld then put
on his big act,
Crease, and once again

y

 

alicia ae
FRASER BROS.
TAXI

25c. Rate

On all Student call.

 

ti
assisted by Ted
Dal brolze
far into the lead to leave the Red:
behind.

Dal — Bill Gladstone, 12; Den
16; Mit Musgrave, 8; Sam

Fairstein, 4; Doug Crease, 2; Ted

 

     
  

 

 

|Crease, 10; C. Anderson, Chuck
Lorway, Ernie Richardson. B-6070
FROM THE

WINNERS *"sraer

For 60 years the REACH Trade
Mark on Sporting Goods has
been a mark of perfection. No
matter what your favorite sport
may be we can supply you with
equipment that will help you

play the game with the best
that’s in you.

CRAGG BROS. CO.

Limited.
HALIIFAX, N. S.

| Student’s Special |

SUITS or TOPCOATS
perfectly dry cleaned
and pressed

$1.25

Sponged and Pressed, 45c.
Called for and. delivered.

Telephone Lorne 2323.

e 9 e oe
Cousins’ Limited
Dry Cleaners - Dyers - Tailors

“None better—anywhere”

 

td

 
