 

 

 

Official Student Publication

HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA,

Effective Speaking Club Is

Host To English Debaters

 

Three Speakers Address Club
Prof. C. L. Bennet, Mr. Robertson Crichton of Oxford University,
and Mr. Leslie T. Jackson of Cambridge University were the guest
speakers at the last meeting of the
Effective Speaking Club. About 25
members were in attendance at this
meeting which was unquestionably
one of the most outstanding meetings since the Club’s inception about
two years ago. C. Bruce Ferguson,
President of the Club, presided.
Mr. Crichton described the activities and methods of the Oxford
Union which, he states, was addressed three or four times a year by
special speakers, “worn-out politicians.” Political debating furnishes
the major part of the activities of
the British Debating Society. Among
the topics of discussion were Socialism and Unemployment. However,
cultural subjects would be perhaps
more beneficial in some respects. The
system which has been built up has
developed what is known as “the
Union style” which is characterized
by epigrammatic speeches. These
tend to become stereotyped and this
factor does not give free range of
speech but results ultimately in solid
uninspired speech. About eight
hundred students, out of four thousand at Oxford, take part in debat_ ing; one hundred always attend
Union : _ Oxford students

   

entitled to vote in the Union. This
_ shows the method of election in Oxford. The Standing Committee and

Library Committee are elective.
Election to these bodies gives
status. By making good speeches

one is elected. There is no canvassing for election to these committees.

The Union has developed many
loose styles. Speaking still is rather of the political platform type,
sounding statements being characteristic of this style. There is a
rather cheerful side to speaking in
the Union. A rather foolish debate,
made up chiefly of buffoonery, is
held every year. Very often actors
and speakers are guest speakers at
the Union.

“Perfect case’ speakers are not
of as much benefit to developing
ones’ ability to speak as the other
method of becoming imbued with
one’s subject which is the aim. One
becomes worked up over one’s subject and hopes for the best.

The Oxford Union was described
by the speaker as the “playground
for future parliamentarians’. Here
the tradition of debating is felt and
there is a fairly high standard. In
recent years there has been a change
to a more sincere style of speaking.
Natural gestures are considered to
be of much. greater value than
machine-like (coached) actions.

At Cambridge, said Mr. Jackson,
there are three elective offices, viz.,
President, Vice-President and Secretary, the President and Vice-President usually being elected unopposed
whereas there is a real election for
the Secretaryship. The Library Committee is appointed by the Standing
Committee. At this university’s debating society the atmosphere is
very formal. Literary and cultural
topics are very often before the
Society.

Professor Bennet, in the concluding address, correlated the two preceding speeches and added many
interesting points in connection with
_ debating in England. In addition,

the speaker compared and contrasted
English and American styles of de____ bating and also pointed out how in
Canada the type of debating technique ~was tending towards a style

 

 

e*,@
Essay Competition

The Gazette, with a view towards stimulating student interest in essay writing, announces
this week a competition on the
subject, “The Ungentlemanliness
of Ladies at Dalhousie.” Through
the kindness of a friend of the
university, a prize of any ten
volumes of the Everyman Library will be presented to the
winner.

The essays, judges of which
will be professors of the university, should be limited to between
500-750 words, the Gazette suggesting they be written in humorous or satirical vein. The
Gazette reserves the right
publish any of the submitted
articles, though the names of the
author will not necessarily be
printed.

Essays must be in the hands
of the Gazette staff or left in the
mail-boxes in care of the editors
byNov ember 15th.

Senior-Junior

_ Debate Nov. 8

Opening the Bennett Shield debating series, representatives of the
Senior and Junior classes will meet
in Room 3 of the Arts Building,

'|Thursday, November 8th, at 12/}

o'clock to debate on the question

“Resolved that Co-education is a| fm
failure.” The Seniors will oppose the cs

resolution.

Flo Keniston and Bernard Andrews will speak for the Seniors,
while Elizabeth Ballem and Wilfred
Burchell will represent Class ’36. All
of them have debated before, Miss
Ballem taking the Bennett prize two
years ago when the Freshmen won
the series. Miss Keniston and Burchell took part in the Bennett competition last year. Andrews, a
Newfoundlander, inherits an ability
to express himself.

Other Sodales activities include a
political debate, with outside speeches, and a trip to Acadia. The political debate, run on parliamentary
rules is expected to take place in a
fortnight’s time. Two prominent
‘party men one on either side, and
assisted by Roy Laurence and
Horace Hanson will compose the
teams. The Acadia trip is planned
to promote interest in debating
among undergraduates. Two will
be taken from the Freshmen and
Sophomore Classes, and two from
the Seniors and Juniors. Further
particulars will be announced later.

Shirreff Hall Notes

At Sheriff Hall there lived a young
frau,

Who one week-end went home to
Parrsboro

She took with her a man

Of an old Scottish Clan

And said, “look dad what I’ve got
to show!”

 

 

midway between those of England
and of the United States. Furthermore, he described the effects of the
English and American styles upon
one another. In Canada, the trend
in speaking is away from the
stereotyped style and towards the
light, free and easy, more natural
method. Our aim should be to
strike a happy medium between the
two.

Following these three excellent addresses, a vote of thanks was tendered to the speakers by the chairman.
Mr. Bernard Andrews moved and
Mr. Robert MacLellan seconded the
vote of thanks. A short period of
discussion followed. The Club will
meet again early in November.

to |

 

 

(By Students of the Education Department)

It was with deep regret that we, the Education
students, learned of the passing of our beloved Professor and friend, Dr. Wilson Smith.
realize on I’riday that this would be our last class
We have lost our leader.

From the very first we felt the influence of his

with him.

 
  

Students Pay Tribute To
Late Dr. Wilson Smith

 

 

NOVEMBER 1, 1934

 

7

Tattle did we

@ | tion

Edith Blair of Dalhousie, to Queen’s

at Dalhousie University

 

 

 

No. 5

 

 

National Federation Of
Can. University Students

 

Shown above are the principal officers of the N. F. C. U.
National Federation of Canadian University Students.
at the last conference held at London (Ont.) in December,
(1) Perey G. Davies, M.P.

hold office until December, 1935:

  

S.—the
They were elected
1933, and will
Davies is

the Graduate Secretary of the Federation and was one of the founders.

Heis an alumnus of the University of Alberta.
the University of Toronto, president of the Federation.

(2) Melvin K. Kenny, of
(3) Mark Collins,

of the University of British Columbia, 1st Vice-President.

Seven Canadian students have re
ceived Exchange Scholarships thi:
session from the National Federa

tary of the N. F. C. U.S.
They are:

Thelma Hermanson of Manitoba, to
Toronto.

| return
|for the year following the scholarof Canadian University Stu-| ship
—| dents, it is announced by the Secre

Exchange Scholars must agree to
to their home universities

year. The following, who

| studied under Exchange Scholarships

in 1983-84, are now back at their

home universities:

Peter B. Anderson, back at Alberta
from McGill.

| Mary Macbeth, back at Alberta from

i | Leslie Allen of U. B. C., to Toronto. |

Toronto.

forceful and genial personality. His spontaneous
sense of humour, and his kindly sympathy, endeared
him wn the hearts of all. His zeal and faith in Education and its wide possibilities in the development
of society aroused our enthusiasm. A goal has been

set before us toward which we may strive. ‘‘Re
member,’’ he said, ‘‘this is a changing world. As
teachers your opportunity lies in making use of live
material. You must fight against becoming staid
and set in your ways. Be interested in your group,
m your community, and in the welfare of society.
You are a select group, and ought to be leaders.’’
He had a keen insight into the character and
a quick, perception of the abilities of his class. He
was untiring mm his efforts to lay a firm foundation
upon which we might build our philosophy of Education. In our attempt he hoped we would develop
an open mind through good, clean thinking. He en
Leonard Harper of Alberta, to Toronto.

‘ Evelyn Buxton of Alberta, to Tor
onto.
Vivian Hood of Alberta, to B. C.
Winston Porter of Alberta, to McGill.
Under the Exchange Plan a student may spend one year at a uni
| versity other than his “home” uni
versity without paying any tuition
or Student Council fees. The scheme
was devised six years ago by the
Federation, with the co-operation of
the authorities of the Canadian uni
versities.

DALHOUSIE

 

UNIVERSITY

E, R. Preudhomme, back at Manitoba from Toronto.

Helen Hamilton, back at Quéen’s
from Dalhousie.
Helen Hamilton, back at
from Dalhousie.
Edward J. Fox, back at Western On
tario.

The Oxford-Cambridge debating
team, which visited Dal recently,
was brought to Canada this fall by
the National Federation of Canadian
University Students. The team consisted of Robertson Crichton, of Ox
(Continued on Page Four)

STORE

Queen’s

BOOK DEPARTMENT
Statement of Profit and Loss, May 5th 1933, — May 5th, 1934.

  
 

couraged discussion, urging us never to accept any
opinion unless thoroughly convinced.

Dr. Smith was keenly interested in current
affairs, whether it was the Townsend Plan, the
Stevens Report, student activities or our own in
dividual interests.

His life was an inspiring example of courage
In spite of his infirmity, he
worked hard and diligently. His University may
well be proud of his accomplishments in its DepartBy his death Dalhousie has

and perseverance.

ment of Hducation.

lost one of the most progresssive of her leaders.

“Great is the name
Of the strong and skilled,
Lasting the fame
Of them that build.’’

 

Something
To Think About

Let your speech be always with
grace, seasoned with salt.
Colossians iv: 6.

 

The religious conflict in Germany
has become very tense during the
past week. With the strong stand
taken by the Protestant bishops
and pastors in Southern Germany
during the last ten days the struggle enters a new phase. The spirit
of Luther is marching against the
spirit of National Socialism.

 

Noel Coward’s new play, “Conversation Piece”, is being presented in
America for the first time this week.
This time it is a comedy with music
and costume.

  
 

The events which led up to and the

_actual factors involved in the resig
nation of Mr. Stevens from the Bennett Government should be noted by

|every student. It is another example
|of the old moral, “don’t talk out of

turn.”

John Masefield, poet laureate, seems
to have gone prose. Nevertheless
this does not detract from any of
the pleasantries which his new book,
“The Taking of the Grey,” has to
offer. The novel certainly contains
one of the inherent characteristics of
poetry, that is, the degree to which
it offers avenues of escape. The book
sways the reader along.

 

 

Mr. MacCarthy coached Caledonia
football team for two years; the
team has since won the McTier Cup
twice. MacCarthy has coached the
Tigers two years, and they have not
even placed in the local league.
Where does the fault lie? Be game

—but not everybody’s.

 

 

AIG OW BOOKS Si Oca, on Saw cele S bee bole ee es balon $4,641.25
Sales—Second-hand Books ...........0.cecceceeeees 630.80
WOON es Dene wPle Sottl eye, Seca st touts ee ete ee
Less: Cost of Goods Sold:
Inventory May 5th, 1938............... $ 638.42
Purchases—New Books .......$3,810.00
—Old Books ........ 570.02
$4,380.02
$5,018.44
Less: Inventory May 5th, 1934............ 666.30
——— 4,352.14
SPU EE ot tee el tale at Se SeOwee
Less: Expenses:
CHOMORAR  FAMOBRE "i. occa Se eee Sock lcs $ 15.35
PIMCMMI 4, See Steck uc Boo ee 35.54
EG SI Belew eee seein 6 hehe Vickie mye 19.09
Piette Wek Pirin re Ol ee fe Ee 8 58.75
Pretght. and. Bixpreayy ooo. oe necee cc, 82.3
Stationery, Printing and Postage....... 382.59
TRE MOCEUL CTE iy Sol gh to gn SP 3.00
Salary and Commission................ 151.01
PSV, TIGprecintionn 1.65 is hich ee ck s ogee 11.63

Plus: Confiscated Deposits

6. 5_e Bb 6 @e «

Net Profit

SO WG-6 © '6 Oe 2's o'e 3 o

* ic eee. 2, 2S 0 S8 ee O'S 6 ord 5 0s, O 8 hb od 0.0 4 ee eo 8 be

 

$469 , 29

$450 .62
1.60

$ 452.22

Balance Sheet as at May 5th, 1934.

ASSETS
CEE Gs CSL ANE SRE Pe, Fhe AeS. ig 2 $1,027.56
Accounts Receivable (H. Holt & CO, Fs tse iie sce ee4 13.49
MAVORTOEY, Gyro. AEN UNA Oh LS oiee ME bec, 666.30
MDE as URS LOAM, cx foe. at ee eel 6.20
LIABILITIES

Accounts Payable—Second-hand Books.............. $ 30.94
pun@emie ‘Counenl Digaw oe. . ie se oboe es cecb scan: 200.00
Reserve for Inventory Losses....................... 66.63

REE ANS SRLS sce eli. tee cate TES 1,415.98

 

$1,718.55 $1,713.55

Respectfully submitted,

Auditors: H. J. EGAN, D. F. ARCHIBALD

NEIL W. HIGGINS, Manager. 
 
ee oe rt oe, a
oe eee 7 : i
lalhousie M@ Wazette

“The Oldest College Paper in America”

   
  
  
    
    
   
   
 
  
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
   
  
 
   
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
   
   
    
  
  
   
   
   
    
   
   
   
  
   
  
   
  
   
   
 
  
 
  
   
  

ee ke 24 Editors 7 ae
mye News Editor
ARTHUR MERKEL
B. 5108

Sports Editor
BILL DAVIS

—-B.5827 Rees
OM Wncties Manager Assistant
ARTHUR MEAGHER
D. WALLACE ROWLINGS B. 2886

Be

 

REQUIESCAT IN PACE

Dalh housians learned with great sorrow of the sudden
passing nor Peeatessox Wilson mith into that larger life
_ which knows no death. As head of the Department of
ducation, Professor Smith was an imitable teacher, a fin
d scholar, esteemed and loved by all who came under
his inspiring influence. For six years he has guided and
moulded the characters of those who would better the

cause of Education. His passsing, while still a young man,

>
Is

4, at
he

felt with deep regret throughout the entire University.
a ‘aaeretia autaile the immediate academic circles
were wide and varied. His enthusiasm for things Dal- housian was refreshing. His sparkling wit, his mordant
sarcasm and cryptic apothegems won appreciate praise
from all who knew him.
Professor Smith, a Doctor of Education from Harvard,
had occupied the Chair of Education at Dalhousie since its
inception six years ago and during that time has contributed greatly to the educational life of the University
and Province at large. Those of us who frequent the
Murray Homestead will miss his familiar form, his cheerful personality and his eager attention to every problem
no matter how trivial. Many a student’s dilemma has
been smoothed over by the timely advice of Professor
Smith. There is hardly a student organization on the
campus that did not attract the interest of the late Professor, and his active participation in student affairs was
prevented only by his physical infirmity.

Although the entire University mourns the loss, the
students of Education perhaps realize more keenly the
irreparable laucuna which has been made in the life of Dal—-——- housie. His students, with whom he was so closely as__. . . sociated, have been inspired by his leadership and kindly

—— nature. The day following the death of their leader the

__—_ students of Education could be seen in their class room

carrying on with their assignments, spurred on by an in
Spi ae nature which still lived, although He had passed
BRON SS te SO da) natal: Sean a aesiw Wt sats Al oe

oe Ang so he is gone. ‘That personality so familiar on

the campus and around the Homestead, that eager and

_ . attentive nature, carrying with it a serene and_ placid

| «good humour. Dalhousie’s loss is surely great. We have

Jost an earnest and faithful teacher.

nn)

 

‘For the past three years, the number of students registered
at Dalhousie has showed a consistent decline. In 1931 some
1015 students were studying here; this year the number has
dropped to about 800, a very considerable decrease. It is most
notable in the Arts and Science classes, the professional schools,
as might be expected, remaining practically stationary.
: Many reasons have been given to explain the situation, but
that most probable is the competition of other Maritime universities, where registration figures, in contrast to Dalhousie’s,
shown an increase over past years. This is made up by a particularly large freshman enrollment, making it evident these
universities will be assured of many students for the next three
or four years, the average student taking his degree from the
university he first entered. The popularity of these universities
has been expensive to Dalhousie, as with professors in Arts and
Science classes on a flat-rate salary, the more students they
have in their classes, the cheaper is the cost per student and
the more the college authorities have to spend on other accounts.
_In the professional schools, Dalhousie meets with little opposition and here registration is satisfactory. But if the present
tendency continues, Dalhousie will become more and more professionalized; it will lose the philosophy that is only found in
the study of history, language, and pure science. How shall
this destructive competition be met?
; Certainly Dalhousie’s people would oppose any suggestions
that she adopt the commercial practices of some of her contem-poraries — giving athletic scholarships or sending travelling
salesmen over the Maritimes to drum up interest. But this,
the Gazette thinks, is not the basic reason of the popularity of
other colleges. It costs less money to go elsewhere than to
Dalhousie. True, the fees at Dalhousie compare favourably
with other universities, but the cost of living in Halifax is. much
higher than at Wolfville, Sackville, Antigonish or Fredericton.
| ~~ ~—Dalhousie, at present, is the college for sons and daughters of
the rich, and witih economic conditions as they are,, freshmen
go elsewhere. J
ie a Until the time when Dalhousie has a residence, the cost of
Dt opine is not controllable. All that can be done. is to lower
ee i ” uition fees. But the University is being run at a deficit and
Bae it cannot afford to reduce fees all around. The,Gazette, on the

oa

.. i _ assumption that a student, once registered at one college, will
remain there until graduation, suggests that tuition fees for
| __ freshmen be materially reduced. We believe that what is lost
to the University will be made up by an increased enrollment.
for Dalhousie’s reputation as an educational center is un
__-_—*‘The Gazette is not suggesting mass-education. On the
_ contrary, it believes the reduction should be offered only to the
. peat class of student—the one whose matriculation marks show
_-full_preparation for university work. As a further precaution.
»it.might be wise to make the reduction in the form of a refund
the second yer tuition fees, provisional on suecess in first
ar exam no*ons, and of course, upon the student coming here

er study.

pa
hae” a
“ao we

mae
a Y

and other International
have taken the interest of most

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

The HON. H. H. STEVENS
and OTTAWA
For the past few weeks such events
as the assassinations at Marseilles,
Melbourne Air Race, Labor disputes
| incidents

Canadians. But during the week
end a swift sequence of events
changed the drama and its setting,
Ottawa has stolen the show and as
a result all eyes are turned to the
political arena wherein is staged the
greatest political sensation in months
Not since the dramatic resignation
of Sir Sam Hughes from Borden’s
Cabinet in 1917 has there been such
speculative political talk. Weeks of
friction between the Minister of
Trade and Commerce, The Hon. H.
H. Stevens, and the Prime Minister
have at last caught fire with the re
sult that the Minister .has resigned |

from the Chairmanship of the Royal
Commission on “Price Spreads and
Mass Buying” and relinguished his
portfolio in the Bennett Government.

The Cabinet storm against Mr.
Stevens broke around a pamphlet
on the investigation which was released by him on July 27, 1934. He
was criticised for impropriety and
violation of a judicial tradition in
discussing an investigation which
had not yet been terminated. Sharp
exception was also taken to certain
speeches made by Mr. Stevens in
reference to the mass buying of particular Toronto business houses. He
was reprimanded by the Prime Minister but went unheeded. In fact he
refused to retract or apologize for
his remarks. Such action placed
“Honest Harry” in a “minority of
one” in the Cabinet. The logical
sequence to this variance with his
fellow ministers was his resignation.
However, despite the resignation,
the veteran B, C. Minister pledged
continued support to Mr. Bennett
and the Conservative party in the
House. ;

Speaking legally, Mr. Stevens was
wrong in publishing the investigations of a yet non-completed Royal
Commission, regardless of his zeal
to rid the country of unethical
sweatshop conditions. Legislation is
not enacted so that it may be violated to suit the tastes of one person, There are certain traditions
and principles that must be adhered
to. Mr. Stevens knew that the
Commission would continue its investigations because the Prime
Minister himself moved the resolution that, “. . . One of the members
will act as Chairman of the Commission.” . “that every effort
that can be made towards securing
evidence as to what the conditions
are, will be made” (page 211, Hansard 134). Why then did Mr.
Stevens make such statements apart
from his fellow Commissioners?
Was he not motivated by his own
enthusiasm to do the right thing
coupled with personal desires for
popularity and publicity? The Honorable Gentleman became so obsessed with the idea of abating Sweat
Shop practices that he attacked all
business alike. It was this lack of
discretion that Mr. Bennett took issue with.

It seems necessary to warn Mr.
Stevens that all mass buyinig is not
inherently evil and that business
conducted on a large scale is not in
itself bad. Admittedly there is more
room for unethical practices in such
houses, but because some have weakened and employed unfair methods
is it to be assumed that all or a
large proportion have erred? Let
each case be judged on its merits,
good being pitted against bad.

Competition has become so ruthless in its struggle for existence that
few trading victims are left and as
a result the profits of the smaller
producers have been reduced to a
mere pittance and insome cases the
clutching hands of these large concerns have pitifully strangled and
forced their smaller rivals to the
wall. No finger can be pointed to
one organization because all this is
part of a swift economic process
leading, as Strachey says, to the
formation of giant monopolies. If
this long unrestrained competition,
is not curbed within reasonable
limits, society will rot from the
stench of its inherent weaknesses.
Legislative control of this ruthless
competition must come. To state
the problem briefly; it is a “tossup” between ethical business methods

(CONTINUED ON PAGE THREE)... .

: sett : Yrne:t}


- ~r
MIN ¥

 

 

RAMBLING

 

“The Moving Finger writes, and,
having writ, Moves on.”
—Omar Khayyam.

 

PING-PONG

When many of our fellow-students
satisfy the caveman instinet by buffeting a piece of celluloid, when two
new tables have been added to our
gymnasium apparatus, and when
there is discussion of making the
game a major sport, we might profitably give some attention to ping
pong. Is ping-pong of value as an
extra-curricular element in our
struggle towards perfection? ‘The

recent declaration of the President
of Oklahoma University that that
institution would shortly give academic credit for ping-pong and for
fraternity membership seems to indicate that it has. We don’t think
So.

Ping-pong is not a sport, a source
of physical development. Its most
demented devotee would hardly recommend it as a means of keeping
fit. Although fine co-ordination of
certain muscles is required to excel
in it, no trainer would prescribe it
as a way of obtaining a body beautiful. Its value with regard to
development through social contacts
is surely much less than that of
many other activitieis. As an instrument of intellectual development
it is probably worthless. Even an
argument that ping-pong is valuable
as an amusement or recreation after
hours of hard study would be valid
if there was any hard study by its
addicts, and if there were not better
ways of obtaining similar results.

Ping-pong thus serves no purpose
which is not served better by some
other activity. Those capable of a
higher development should reject it,
since they have better ways of
spending their time. Those incapable of such development have no
place at college anyhow. Ping-pong
in itself is certainly not bad, but to
deny oneself a fuller development
(and, incidentally, more fun). by
spending much time in playing it is.
This article is aimed particularly at
the foolish freshmen and half-baked
upperclassmen who spend: as much
as two or three hours in worshipping the goddess “Ping-Pong”’,

ATHLETIC POLICY

A caption entitled “athletic policy
highly regarded” appeared in our
local newspapers recently. The gist
of the article is that the student body
of Mount Allison continues to be enthused over the new athletic policy
ushered in this year. The policy
commenced with a compulsory program for Freshmen and Sophs in
which all members of these two
classes had to take two hours exercise a week under competent jurisdiction in the branch of sport they
preferred. The Juniors and Seniors
soon felt that they were missing
something and so they appealed to
the physical instructor for something
akin to that program and the result
was a three hour a week gym class
for Upper Classmen. An additional
instructor was engaged and all students are participating.

Well, done, Mount Allison! Dal
has started something of this sort
but for Freshmen only—this, however, is but the beginning. Patience
and good luck to the new enterprise.

MORNING AND NIGHT STUDY

Much is said about the advantage

of morning study. The mind is
supposed to be clear and thinking
rapid after a good night’s rest. To
ithe contrary concentration is difficult in the morning because the body
being refreshed is not submissive but
stirs with restlessness. True one is
supposed to be more conservative
and in fact even more saner in the
daytime.

On the other hand advocates of
late study claim that thinking is
more rapid at night—thinking that
is logical and continuous for it is
a time when the body is composed
and perfectly at ease.

Darkness seems to hide all possible disturbances and the brain becomes keyed to a higher tension, an
intoxication as it were, even though
the body is fatigued—vision seems
clear and concentration not difficult.
However, later study keeps the mind
in such a state of activity that sleep
does not come readily and as a re
_ (Continued. on Page Four)

Vi

‘peal, wet

November 1, 1934

POET’S CORNER

TO HIS MISTRESS

(Being an extravaganza after the fashion of that Prince of Poets,
Silph Kidney.)

These hands have held no other hands so fair.
These lips have kissed no other lips like thine.
No phrase, however, charming, could define

The swift, brown, moving beauty of your hair.

Your ever-charming eyes I would compare
To twin lagoons whose hidden depths confine
The laughter and the light o’ skies, and shine

And gleam with love that only I may share.

Your mouth, so lying like a vale at eve
Pressed ’tween two lines of ruby-painted hills,

Seems but the entrance to a Paradise .

Yet, as I look at you, I can perceive

The innate beauty of a soul that still
My pulsing blood—the love man deifies.

 

 

    

(And then they were married. Now he sings):

Your neck is like the swan—as long and lean.
Your hands are nicenice—though chapped, I will admit.
Your lips are fair—but here’s the worst of it,
My dearest one, why not Listerine?
Those sleepy eyes are full of hidden fire—
Or is it water ?—and they’re slightly crossed.
The voice that keeps my spirit fever-tossed
Reminds me of a bossy in the byre. ,
When’er you laugh you seem to lose your chin.
The face that filled my dreams now haunts my days.
The many love-songs written in your praise
Now rise before me like black fiends and grin.
So plump you are, you bulge out of your clothes.
Why did I marry you? God only knows!

law. He did not practice his profession but came back to China to
join Sun Yat-Sen’s forces to overthrow the Manchu dynasty.

The book gives a vivid picture of
Tan’s childhood, education, and upbringing, including his marriage and
divorce. The historical interest of
the book lies in the revelation of the
break up of the social energies of the
leading classes of the old China..
Tan’s generation is the first to begin the formation of student socialist groups comparable to the
“Young Italy Movement” of of
Nazzine’s era.

Tan’s own ambition was to study
literature. Against the wishes of

(CONTINUED ON PAGE FOUR)

 

Gazette
BOOK REVIEW

“A Chinese Testament” is no
doubt one of the finest biographies
to appear in some time. The book
is really an autobiography in the
sense that the principal character
provided the material for the story,
but in sofar as he does not write it
it himself it is a biography.

It is a story of the life of a
Chinese student as related to one of |
his Russion teachers who wrote the
book in that language. The story
has been translated from the Russian so that much of the literary
finish is lost, and as it is a story of
a foreign people, the names of the
characters and places are at» first
difficult to grasp. Yet enough is
left to make the book a literary
masterpiece. .

Tan Shik-hua, the character about
whom the story evolves, is a native |
of the province of Szechuan in South
| China, a district densely populated
| With seventy million inhabitants,
whose principal occupation is agriculture.

The period of the story is 19001927. Tan comes from an educated
family and at that time educated
Chinese held a position of note in
China, but his family were rather
poor. His father received his edu-|
cation in Japan where he studied

SHANE’S FOR SMART HATS a
riA { S
in the collegiate manner

The
Canterbury Room

While students were at
home during the summer
The Green Lantern made
a decided change in dec
orating The Canterbury

 

Room. Cosy and very

nice,

 

The Green Lantern

 

 

 

 

 

Smart headwear

chosen particularly for

 

College men. New darker shades

entirely different in style and color from hats
of other seasons.

The BROCK is priced at...... $5.00
Re FOU TON 6-55 os bec oni 3.50
And KENSINGTON at ....... 3.00

A New Stiff Hat by CHRISTY
in the smart smaller shape.

Shane's Men’s Shop

30 Spring Garden Road

| DISCOUNT OF 10%. TO. DAL STUDENTS

 

_— OC OS

gaara

 
of Erotics

_ Ont of the correspondence which
rs into my office, day by day in«ere in volume, I have selected
7 th his letter to answer through my
 « olumn this week.

 
  
  
   
  
  
  
    
 
 
   
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
   
  
   
  
   
 
 
  
    
  
   
  

 

asing

Dear Miss Dott:
if im am the son of a cloth-manufacri er and am engaged secretly to the
Sidanghter of a tailor. I know that
; iver parents would’ object to our
_ marriage, but do you think that a
x little cutting-up on our part would
_ reconcile them to the fact?
a E Our romance is like a piece of fine
ae cloth — our lives are beautifully
woven together. She is the warp
and I am the woof, so to speak.
_ I love her dearly and every time
I look at her I am reminded of the
a bees ‘poem

*

‘As pants the soldier for his beans
‘So pants my soul for thee.’

Tell me, Miss Dott, would we make
a pair of pants?

Trustingly yours,
OTTO B. SHOTT.,

 

Dear Mr. Shott:
How odd! Your name rhymes with
mine! Dixie Dott, Otta B. Shott.
Ve “More truth than poultry!” you say.
_ “But poultry’s foul!” I remark.
Just so!” say my readers.
However, to get down to business
and answer your interesting letter.
It is an abject spectacle when
parents object to their children’s
happiness. It is usually nothing but
pure selfishness which influences
their attitude. But parents have
uncommon sense. (There is no such
thing as ‘common sense’.)
Pants, my dear Mr. Shott, are
made for men and not for women.
_. Women are made for men and not
_ for-pants. When a man pants for
a woman and a woman pants for a
_ man, then they are a pair of pants.
a Such pants don’t last.
a * Pants are like molasses, they are
th inn. er hot weather and thicker
: of thicker reminds.
rf your ‘phrase, ‘warp and
) Does that mean that her
ain is ‘warped and that you growl
the time?
= so, the cutting-up you suggest
ik Pana probably mean that if you
i Be didn’t undertake marriage, you
2 would discover that you had been
Mistaken in pants. This usually
leads to what is known in court as
im a suit with breeches of promise and,

ow
i<...
ee

ie A as she is a tailor’s daughter, she
4 _ probably knows her suits.
a -_ ~So, to save expense, I would sug29 _ gest that you merge her warp and
*—s- your ~woof through the Loom of
ot

ete (CONTINUED ON PAGE FOUR)

 

      
     
      

Halifax Steam Laundry
Limited
Tel. L. 2300, L. 2309, L. 1618
Established 1877.

   

ep “Let the Laundry do it”
P|: 81,85 West St. Garrick St.
re
| FRASER BROS.
Po TAXI

25c. Rate

On all Student call.

ait) B-6070

La

   

 

ing with his glasses.

 

 

| FOURTH BOOK OF BUNK |

CHAPTER 65.

1. It so came to pass that once
again a new Skribbler arose in the
Lande of Dal, and this new Kritik
was begged to become the new
Seribe of Bune. The olde Scribe
had gone; had flown far unto the
wildernéss. For the lastweek had
he not panned the Counsel of
Studes, and had not the Counsel and
Spec of Murray who loveth the
COTC madly, and who mindeth not
his own Buz discovered the name
of the Secret Scribe, and with guns
and tongues of which they have
many, they sought to destroy the
Book of Bune. For through this
Cholum the Studes were told the
true ways of the Learned Counsel
—who believeth that their meetings
were to be kept secret from the unruly Studes, who each year throw
away ten Bhucks to be devoured by
the-Wulves; and the Lord of the
Cousel even winceth when the Noble Editor of the Gaz cometh into
their domain—for perhaps he will
learn how they spend the Cash of the
Studes. And for some unknown
reason that is not to be. The Studes
must wait for the annual Bugget
for by that time they have over the
Vacation forgotten all that during
the past year transpired.

2. So when the olde Scribe of
Bune heard that Makkevoi, Spec the
Spot, Theazedhale the lord, MuztGrave the lanky, and in fact the
whole of the Counsel were seeking
a new Scalp, and further when he
found that they who hate to divulge
their Secrets seeketh the inner Secrets of the Gaz, he boardeth the
first boat for Nhew-Fount-Lhande
to escape the wrath of the Learned
Ones, for it is written that on the
shores of Nhew-Fount-Lhande there
is nought but peace and quiet, and he
wondered if perhaps Makkevoi was
an Exception.

3. During the past week the
Zhodales came unto the notice of all
the Studes when Suetherlhande the
Chirpy, and Cleaverlhande from the
Isle of the Nuts crossed tongues
with Jackson who hated to be called
a Communist, and Cryton the Beeg
whose past-time seemed to be playThe battle,
however, turned out to be very little
of the expected “Battle of the Wits”
for there was hardly any wit and
very little Battle. The four Warriors each had different battling
grounds, which were so far distant
that one could not even hear the
other. For a time they forgot they
were speaking of Fash-izm and
talked of Rams and Sheep and
Neglighays. The one out-punned
the other, and there was also a race
to see which side could drink their
Picher of water the faster. The
Gathering was then called upon to
judge the Contest, call it what they
would. They decided for the men
from across the seas, and once
again the Children of Dal have been
defeated in the art of Debate, and
they wonder when their day will
come, the day when the tongue-waggers of Dal will be able to bring
home Victory.

4. And now that it has come to
pass that the Autumn Lheeves have
finished colouring and have fallen
unto the Ground, and King Winter
is lurking in the background, the
Heroes of the Geem remember that
it is time once again to pick up the
Bhasketbhall and to once again seek
the honour that was theirs Last
Year. The heroes gather unto
themselves many men, and _ bind
themselves into teams which they
call Greesephans, Guttersnipes, and
many others. And hig Beel the
sharpshooter was the Cheef of one,
while DewDeelier, Crease, and Bald

were among the other Cheefs pre
paring their men for Battle.

 

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

STUDENTS’ FORUM

‘The Editor, Dalhousie Gazette:

Dear Sir,— We have been approached by a large number of our
fellow students and asked to answer
the unnecessary, insolent, unfair and
malicious attack made on the medical students by some dim-witted
numskull in a recent issue of the
“Gazette”.

We are indeed sorry to have to
spend even ten minutes of our valuable time replying to this self-evident ease of anencephalus. However, the requests were so pressing
that we could not resist.

The monstrosity stated that the
average medical student is conceited.
Granting that he is, although he
most certainly is not, has he not
reason to be? The best athletes and
most famous figures around Dalhousie, e.g., the President of the
Students’ Council, the President of
the Glee Club, etc., etc., are medical
students. The embryo M. D. may
be distinguished from Arts and Law
students by his savoir-faire as well
as his general intelligence.

The moron also says that the
med. student is always complaining
about fees—and why shouldn’t he?
He has to pay through the nose to
keep leeches like Arts, Commerce
and Engineering students (?) at
college. The fees to study Medicine
are approximately twice those of
any other course but Dentistry.

Anencephalus (by which name ye
shall know him) also says that we
complain too much about the amount
of studying we have to do. In the
dark ages, when we were at Studley and he was being poured into a
test-tube, one night a week spent in
study was sufficient to pass us with
honors. At present if we don’t work
five nights a week, we are sure candidates for the local Ditch-Diggers’
Union.

We could go on refuting the lies
of this monstrosity, but unfortunately we have not the time nor
have you the space. Therefore we
close with this happy thought, viz.,
that Anencephalus should have had
a destructive operation before this,
and perhaps it is not yet too late.

‘Yours sincerely,
CRA ET LABORA.

P.S.—We call upon you to print
this as our answer to Simple Sam.

 

To the Editor:

Dear Sir,—So physical training
has been ordered for those Freshmen who fail to turn out for any of
the sporting activities of Dalhousie.

May I state that we Freshmen
came to Dalhousie for an education.
Our health and other personal matters are things which, I think, we
are fully capable of attending to
for ourselves. The Universsity can
supply the learning: we shall attend
to our health.

Most of us spend the summer
time in recreation of a sporting nature, and when it comes to the
cooler season of the year—and college life—we are at liberty, I
should imagine, to participate or not
to participate in sports just as we
“darn well please”. Those of us
who spend most of the time in class
and studying, when we are looking
for mental rest, intend to spend this
leisure to our own tastes. If we
wish to play football or badminton
or tennis, we shall. If we don’t, we
won’t,

Personally, I have been given 60
years to live by one of the leading
doctors of the city. So I see no
reason why I should take P. T. My
heaith is something which I never
have occasion to worry about, and
I find the physique with which I
have been endowed by Providence
fully up to my own standards. In)
view of this, and my case is but a'

October 28, 1934.
The Dalhousie Gazette.
Dear Editor:

In the last issue of the Gazette
you published the Students’ Council
Balance Sheet for last year which
should be of interest to all students
who have generously (?) contributed ten dollars each to the common
fund. As much as we may like to
know what was done with our money
last year, still it is more important
to know what is going to be done
with it this year. Perhaps, Mr.
Editor, you might persuade the Teasdale government to make public
1934-35 budget just to give us a
rough idea where this year’s money
is going.

Last year almost the largest item
of expenditure was for football.
Granting that this is Dalhousie’s
major sport, and that the greatest
enthusiasm is shown for football,
still two thousand dollars seems a lot
of money for a game which is played
little more than two months out of
seven of the year, and in which not
more than about forty students
actively participate (outside of Inter-faculty football, which involves
little expense). True, all students
may see the games at Studley free,

»|but only about three games are

played on our own field each season, which would mean that each
student attending only saves about

'Council ticket.

Please don’t think that I would
(cut football expenses to anything
like the sum’ of eighty-five cents
|spent last year on track sports, but
we would like to see a more equal
distribution of money spent on
sports. The four hundred and seventy
odd dollars spent on_ basketball
(aside from the play off expenses
last year) cannot, I think, be considered excessive as it may be enjoyed by a large number for the
entire college year.

All students may equally enjoy
the Gazette and the Glee Club shows
so that money spent on these is
equally distributed. The Glee Club
Shows afford free entertainment and
dances for everyone and are appreciated by those who find little left
to spend on hotel dances and other
amusements, after they have paid
their tuition, board and other necessary expenses. I think you will find
that the majority of the Student
Body attend few, if any, large dances
through the year.

Last year ninety-two dollars was
spent on a Year Book which wasn’t
even published. Other colleges have
Year Books, why not Dalhousie?
Besides a sheep skin inscribed with
Latin words of which we have forgotten the meaning a good Year
Book should be the best souvenir of
our college days we shall have in
later years. Perhaps Freshmen and
Sophomores may not want Year
Books, but they likely will when
their turn comes to graduate.

Because of reduced registration the
Council has less money to spend this
year, so it should be more than ever
to our interest that the money be
spent so as to give the most benefit
to the students. It seems that the
different items in the budget are decided by the relative powers of persuasion of the different managers
and the sympathies of their friends
on the Council.

Let us hope that an early number

 

Council.

| typical one, I see no reason on earth
| why Dalhousie University should de|eide that I shall have to do compul‘sory P. T., and I can assure you
that my opinion is that of Class o8
ONE OF THE FRESHMEN.

 

a dollar, at the most, a year by his |

|of the Gazette will be able to show |
‘us a satisfactory budget from the |

CLAMOROUS CLAUDIUS.

 

    

ciety Ball |

Nova Scotian Hotel-Thursday, November 8, at 9.30

, Couple, $3.00; Single, $2.00.

Page ‘three

Specials for Dal Students Only

IF YOU SHOW THIS ADVERTISEMENT

HAIR TRIM, SHAMPOO and FINGER
WAVE, all 3 for

12 PERMANENT CURLS for
(Includes Shampoo)

15 years experience is your assurance of satisfaction

 

arriette

Ground Floor Mills Bldg.
B-7022.

24% SPRING GARDEN RD

DO YOU KNOW ?

That John Howard Payne heard
often in the cities of Paris, Berlin, London persons singing or
organs playing his composition,
‘Home, Sweet Home’, without
having a shilling to buy himself
the next meal or a place to lay
his head?

That Know-Nothings are “Native Americans’?

That the shortest correspondence
ever known took place between
Victor Hugo and his publisher,
just after the publication of ‘Les
Miserables’. The poet, impatient
to learn of the success of the book
sent off a letter which contained

only the following:
>

and he received the following en
tirely satisfactory answer:
!

That the shortest marriage
service in the world is daily performed in the office of the Mil
waukee justices: “Have him?
“Yes”, “Have her?” “Yeas”
“Married. Two dollars.”

That Charles Lamb sat next to
some chattering women at dinner.
Observing that he did not attend
to her, “You don’t seem,” said the
lady, “to be at all the better for
what I have been saying to you”
“No, ma’am,” he answered, “but
this gentleman at the other side
of me must, for it all came in at
one ear and went out at the other.

That Dr. Fuiler’s epitaph
“Here lies Fuller’s Earth.”

is:

 

That a lady once taken down to
dinner by Tennyson was in eestasies about the highly intellectual
and poetical conversation which
was to be hers for one hour and a
half. But the only utterances
Tennyson let fall was the unpoetical remark, “I like my mutton cut
in chunks.”

 

The conversation overheard by a
young girl in Cambridge between
Longfellow and Lowell was equally brilliant. Just before she overtook them a little child came along.
That seemed to give Lowell an
idea. The young woman pricked
up her ears. “What are little
girls made of?” said Lowell to

 

Longfellow. The reply was:

“Sugar and spice and all that’s
nice;

That is what little girls are
made of.”

That Downing Street, often

figuratively spoken of as the English government, was named after
a native American, George Downing, a Bostonian.

 

That the advice Punch gave to
those about to marry was:
“don’t.”

 

JERRY NAUGLER AND HIS ORCHESTRA

 

Comment-
(CONTINUED FROM PAGE TWO)

with slight Government interference
on the one hand, or economic revolution with its consequential social
degradations on the other hand.
The Government has its chance.
Some startling disclosures have been
made to the Commission but probably more astounding evidences will
be revealed before its termination.
But the important thing for the
Commission to remember is, that it
is not exposure that is necessary,
but reform—legislative action.

In these days of unrest one would
like to see a pooling of brains at
Ottawa but instead one witnesses a
fierce perpetuation of the old partizan strife — and now comes some
more strife but this time it is in the
Government ranks. Some pressure
must be brought to bear on our
public men to drive them into the
needed action before it is too late.
It is hoped despite these upsets that
Mr, Stevens will continue to serve
his country as he has done in the
past. He misunderstood the colleetive responsibilitiy of Cabinets but
at the same time he has always been
an important factor in the life of
the Conservative party. He was first
elected to Parliament on the Reciprocity election of 1911 as member
for Vancouver Centre and continued
to serve until his retirement in 1929.

Mr. Bennett called him from retirement after the General election
of 1980 to assign him the post of
Minister of Trade and Commerce,
which position he held under the
Meighen Government of 1921. The
Stevens resignation recalls other
cases of withdrawal by Ministers.
Sir Wilfred Laurier during his long
regime had no less than six of his
Ministers withdraw from his Cabinet.
The most vivid case is that of Israel
Tarte, Laurier Minister of Public
Works who during Sir Wilfred’s trip
to England publicly advocated poli
cies of high protection. Upon
Laurier’s return, Tarte was forced
to resign because he like Stevens

\forgot the Collective responsibility
of Cabinets. Likewise A. G. Blair
|resigned after a disagreement with
|Laurier on the Transcontinental
| Railway. Then too are the cases of
| Sir Clifford Sifton of Winnipeg Free
| Press fame, Ontario’s Chief Justice
|Sir Williiam Muleck and Henry R.
» member from Westmore
 

         

| land,
|

Student’s Special

SUITS or TOPCOATS
perfectly dry cleaned
and pressed

$1.25
Sponged and Pressed, 45c.
Called for and delivered.

Telephone Lorne 2323.

: e % oO a

Cousins’ Limited

Dry Cleaners - Dyers - Tailors
“None better—anywhere”

      
           
         
      
         
           
 
    
      
    
  
  

 
 

Tickets at Universsity Store
A. Kelly, R. R.
McIntyre and E. G. Byrne.

or from W.

   

 

 

 

 

 
 
  
 
    

 

   
 

aa

nts
E

  

rs ~ £ *

 
   
  
   
  

Ly oO he

 

| ae whistle had blown, none of the Dal supporters felt obliged
to apologize for their tigers. The team had lost but only after
they had shown the greatest football displayed by a Dal team

7.
—
i
=
7
-— «

in years.
maf Pc Rte
Co _-—s While the Dal scrum, feeling the
——- Joss of several regulars was unable
sto - control the ball, yet it was fast
ie following up on the part of the forwards that allowed the Dal backfield to take advantage of fumbles
and blocked kicks of the Acadians.
neat Acadia scored first, Sanford boot--——s ing the slippery ball over the cross| bar, after a penalty had been given
on the Dal twenty-five yard line.
ro With Acadia leading three to nothfee ing the teams battled evenly until
_ Bernie Ralston, playing his usual
heady game, started a play which
ended when Tedstone plunged across
‘the Dal line. Sanford missed the
kick on goal, and things looked bad
for the Tigers with Acadia holding
a six point lead.
| Play being resumed, the Tigers
put on a sustained offensive and before Acadia could get their bearings
Doug Bent had crossed their line for
two tries. The ball was heavy and
slippery, and Creaser’s attempts to
kick the goals, which would have
placed Dal in the lead, failed, and the
seore stood six to six.

Both teams tried desperately for
the deciding score and Acadia’s final
drive could not be denied, Holgate
taking the ball on the five yard line
to slip over for a try. Sanford, with

ba a nice kick added the two points
and the game ended Acadiia 11,
Dalhousie 6.

Dalhousie was forced to play the

last part of the game without Carl

 

rent Stoddard whose play at Scrum half
salt had featured the Dal play up until
ss the time he was carried off the field
_-—s with a twisted knee.
| - Crosby, Barnstead, Bent and Stod|» — dard stood out for the Tigers; while

"Bernie Ralson and Neil Sanford were

 

  
  
   
  

Ne

y \ A : kicking adding five points to his
teams total score. | |
_Line-ups: —
Dalhousie — J. Morrell, fullback;
D. Crease, J. Buckley, J. Crosby, G.
Thompson, three-quarters; H. Flynn,
B. Barnstead, C. Stoddard, halves;
D. Bent, M. Lawrence, A. Webster,
D. Ross, G. Tanton, E. Bull, C.
Lorway, forwards.
_ Acadia—Bayne, fullback; D. Ralson, Young, Fountain, Tydstone,
three-quarters; B. Ralson, Holgate,
Wilson, halves; Sanford, Ellsworth,
Haney, Davis, Nicholl, DeWolfe,
Allaby; forwards.

: inl os

; eo
Erotics-(CONTINUED ON PAGE THREE)

Life until the Great Weaver cuts the
threads. :

Bb Incidentally, if you want to make
your pants last, make the coat first,
a but that is purely a_ professional
Po problem.

‘A Helpfully,

Fi: DIXIE DCTT.

 

; Here is our thought for the week

[ to come.

| “When is the honey-moon over?”
; writes a Newly-wed.

h The honeymoon is sure to be over

* whenever the ‘pet lamb’ becomes a

b little bossy.

nae | Erotically yours,

| DIXIE DOTT.

 

  

  
 

EVERY DAY IS

 

 
   
 

 

 
    

 

 
       
    

b BARGAIN DAY
co. | AT
: . a. | | T | P
ee. ae
|| TOP TAILORS
Bo: aa _ ONE PRICE ONLY
a: $23.50 |.
are) -MADE TO MEASURE
ed SUITS, OVERCOATS, FULL
See DRESS AND TUXEDO.
|| 422 BARRINGTON sv.

ees
erate toy tT

Tekected
of

When Holgate Scores With But a Minute to go.

ugh the frowns of Lady Luck forced Coach MacCarthy
atched-up team on the field at Wolfville, yet when the

"the pick of the Acadians, the latter’s |

  
  
 

Ss

ot oe

aie Tate

  

z ky a

1 1
:

    

“4

   

'
7 = hh

In Dying —
Acadia Game

4

 

Dal Cubs Bow to
Acadia Intermed.

Feeling the loss of several of their
star players who had been shifted
to the senior squad for Saturday’s
tussle, the Dal Cubs proved no
match for a smooth working Acadia
machine.

Acadia scored six points in the
first half and although the Dal team
seemed to have improved in the
second yet the Acadians added six
more points while holding the Dal
team scoreless.

Bobby McLellan was easily the best
man on the Dal team, smearing the
Acadia scrum half, time after time,
before he could get the ball away.

Line up: Dal—Gosse, full back;
McKinnon, Manning, Rogers, Miller,
three-quarters; Magonet, Webber,
McLellan, halves; McKenzie, Stephenson, Victor, Fraser, Beeber, Armstrong, Murphy, forwards.

Acadia—MacPherson, full back;
Shaw, Smith, Davison, Beveridge,
three-quarters; Jostrom, Snow, Cameron, halves; Cook, Odeson, Spicer,
MeMurtie, Stevens, Feindel, Shaw,
forwards.

Arts and Science
Tie Lawyers: 3 All

In a game that had the spectators
on their feet from the opening
whistle, the strong Law team battled
to a three all draw an Arts and Science team that bore a striking resemblance to the Dal Cubs.

The Law team scored first, Hinchey completing a beautiful run by
the Law three-quarter line which
ended with Mike grounding the ball
behind the Arts and Science goal
posts. Hal Connor missed the kick
on goal,

Arts and Science came back fighting, and following a fumble by one
of the Law team of a long kick, the
Arts and Science team _ scored,
Rogers carrying the ball over, evened the count at three all.

Mike Hinchey, fast three-quarter
man, was easily the outstanding
player on the field. His now famous
straight arm, proving very disconcerting to opposing tacklers, aided
him in gaining about twenty-five
yards every time he got the ball.

Hinchey, McGilvary, Connor and
Mercer were outstanding for Law,
while Ross, Becker, Rogers and
Libovitch played good football for
Arts. Lebovitch’s tackling was especially effective in breaking up
many dangerous runs by the Law
backfield,

Medical Society Notes

The next meeting of the Medical
Society will be on Monday afternoon,
November 5th at 5 p.m. This meeting will take the form of an address
by Dr. Routley, Secretary to the
Canadian Medical Association. His
address is entitled ‘The future of the
Practice of Medicine in Canada’. The
place is the Munro Room. Be there
on time!

We regret Doug Murray’s illness
following his recent tonsillectomy,
We are earnestly hoping for his
speedy recovery.

Birks - Balfour

The L. G. Balfour Company, makers of Fraternity
Jewellery, have entered into an agreement with
Henry Birks & Sons, to
manufacture and distribute

for them in Canada.

Better service, and closer
contacts, are thus assured
for Fraternity and Sorority
members.

Henry Birks & Sons

Limited

DIAMOND MERCHANTS
Halifax, N. S.

 

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

SPORT REVIEW

The Dalhousie Tigers last Saturday, for the first time in
two seasons, showed some of the old fight that characterized
teams of former years. Although defeated by a score of 11—6,
the inferior Dal team matched Acadia play by play for the
greater part of the game.

Cheered on by the faithful few, the Bengals flashed a
snappy wassing attack featured by the brilliant’ running of
speedy Jim Crosby and the fast following of blonde Doug Bent
and made up a six point deficit only to slow up in the dying
moments of the game.

Harold Flynn, playing his second senior game, played an
outstanding game at outside half, as did Webster in the forward line.

Considering the condition of the field and ball, the match
was surprisingly fast and open. In fact, it produced the best
Rugby football of the league to date.

Strange as it may seem, the Tigers still have a mathematical chance to compete in Maritime playdowns. Acadia
elected to enter the playdowns through the Intercollegiate
League and lost, thus the second place team in the City League
will represent that league. If Dal takes the Reds and United
and Acadia takes the Reds, Dal and Wanderers will tie for
second place, necessitating a play-off which if won by Dal
would qualify her for the Maritime play-offs.

The House Basketball League, after two postponements,
is due to start Thursday. Senior practices are slated for the

   

November 1, 1934

 

CASINO

Now Till Friday, Nov. 2

DESIRABLE

with
JEAN MUIR
GEORGE BRENT
e

ROGERS

with all his quaint humor,
homespun philosophy and
human understanding, in

IRVIN S. COBB’S

“JUDGE
PRIEST”

SAT., MON., TUES.

Starting Saturday, Nov. 3

LEE
TRACY

in The

“LEMON DROP KID”
with ALICE FAYE.

 

 

Dalhousie Again Maintains

Intercollegiate Tennis Title

The weather man put an end to the Maritime Intercollegiate Tennis Finals, leaving Dalhousie as Nova Scotia
Champions and Mt. Allison, New Brunswick title holders,
each team earning their title by victories over Acadia and
U. N. B. respectively.

 

middle of November.

_ The Interfaculty Football League is well under way. Medicine and Law are favorites, but Commerce’s smashing triumph
over the Freshmen (18—0) indicates that they are still to be

reckoned with.

Girls’ basketball practices are under way under the able
tutelage of Coach Charlie Anderson, veteran senior star and

last year’s coach.

THE DOPE

_The Dalhousie dopesters pick Wanderers to take Dal,
senior and intermedate; Acadia to take United, senior and intermediate; Medicine to win the Interfaculty League, and the

Canadians to take the Bruins.

It is rumored that the hockey team plan to take the Newfoundland trip during the Christmas holidays.
Coach McCarthy is not disgusted with his charges, and for

good reasons.
against superior
at last.

The Tiger fifteen put up a magnificent fight
odds and, although defeated, found themselves
It’s too late this season.

 

Engineers and Com, |Dalhousie Spirit is

Defeat Frosh Team

In a fast open game the Eng.Com. team took the Frosh into camp
by the overwhelming score of 18 to
0. The Freshmen kicked off in the
face of a strong wind, and a few
high punts by the Eng.-Com team
soon had the ball on the Frosh line,
where from a mix-up Bauld went
over, putting Eng.-Com. three points
up on the game. Mit Musgrave followed with a perfect kick on goal
to add the extra two points.

“At this point the game turned into a complete rout for the Freshmen; and the Eng.-Com, squad, aided by the wind, kept the ball in
Freshman territory, running up a
total of fifteen points, while holding
the Frosh scorelesss

In the second half the Freshmen
showed to better advantage, and,
although outscored 3 to 0 for the
period, controlled the play.

The Eng.-Com. team, considered a
weak factor at the start of the season, have apparently hit their stride
and, if they continue to show the
scoring punch shown yesterday, will
provide more opposition for the Law
and Medicine teams in their fight
for play-off positions.

The game was featured by the allround playing of Mit Musgrave,
who, besides playing a bang-up game
on the three-quarter line, kicked
three perfect goals following tries
by Bauld, Geodman and himself.
While Bauld stood out with Musgrave as the pick of the Eng.-Com.
team, Linton, Stephenson and Stanfield showed up well for Frosh.

Revived by Few

One of the most pleasing features
of Saturday’s tussle between: the
Tigers and Acadian football teams
in-so-far as Dalhousie is concerned,
was the apparent revival of the
College spirit so long dormant in our
midst.

For the past five years, we have
Seen so-called cheer leaders attempt
to bring a weak one, two, three;
U—Pi—Dee from sleepy individuals
on the Dal stands. Imagine the surprise of the Acadian supporters when
a small band of forty loyal Dalhousians, not only drowned out
Acadia’s band but actually made
themselves heard above all the Ax
men’s battle cry which has so often,
even at our own campus put our
feeble cheers to shame. To say
that Dal rooters excelled themselves
is to put it mildly; they cheered, liked
the sound of their voices; shouted
and finding it still sounded well let
loose with all they had, for were not
there Tigers fighting and fighting
hard in Acadia’s own back yard?

If the spirit shown by Dalhousians
at Acadia continues to flourish it is
needless to say that in a short time
Dalhousie will have a real College
spirit and no Dalhousian will be
backward about making themselves
heard at a time when their team
needs their support.

Rather than allow the boys to get
swelled heads it may be added that
not all the cheering voices were base
and baritone; but that the girls did
their part and did it well.

 

Line ups: °

Eng.-Com. — Lebowitz, fullback; National Fed. of-Simmonds, Thompson, Musgrave,| (CONTINUED FROM PAGE ONE)
Bauld, three-quarters; Crease, Dobson, halves; Goodman, Johnson,|ford, and Leslie Jackson, of CamPetrie, Sutherland, forwards. bridge, and will meet seventeen uni
Freshmen — Renouf, fullback;| Versities and kindred organizations

Dean, Hiseler, Karetaki, Stephenson,
three - quarters; Lipton, Hurst,
halves; Chisholm, Stanfield, McQuarrie, Mullane, Beeber, Lyall, forwards.

Rambling-
(CONTINUED FROM PAGE TWO)

 

sult health is impaired. Nevertheless when some great problem besets
you—requiring infinite patience, persistent application, and intellectual
fineness—do it late at night when
your vision is clear and your vocabulary unending.

on the debating platform.

Last session the N. F. C. U. S.
sent a debating team to Great
Britain, consisting of one Manitoba
debater and one tM. Allison debater.
Also, during 1933-34, the Federation
arranged a tour of Canada by a
team from Bates College, Maine,
and a tour of Western Canada by a
French-speaking team from the Uni
versity of Montreal.
rr

An important business meeting of
the Med. Society must take place the
week beginning November 4th. The
date of this meeting will be announced at Dr. Routley’s lecture.

 

Of the Dalhousie net stars slated
for action in the finals at the Carleton Courts only three saw action
two of whom were victorious. Cther
matches had been started when the
rain came down, causing a postponement to the following day where rain
again fell, resulting in a definite cancelling of the series. There was
some talk on the Mount A. campus
of continuing the series at Truro,
but nothing final hasbe en done and
the series will in all probability go
unfinished.

Don Saunderson and Isabel Fraser

 

Win Singles

Saunderson took his over
Jameison, Mt. A., with two straight
games—the first with little difficulty
6—2, while Jameison forced the Dal
star to 7—5 in the second.

After losing the first game 4—6,
Isabel Fraser made a decisive comeback to defeat Miss Colly, Mt. A.,
two games 6—0, 6—0, to take the
set.

While her two team mates were
going down to defeat Miss Black,
Mt A., on a third court was winning
a victory over Betty Miller of Dal
by taking the set in two games by
scores of 6—3, 6—3.

Other Dal net stars who were
scheduled to play but did not get
into competition were Jean Churchill,
Helen Holman, John Godwin and
Milt Musgrave. |

set

 

Book Review-
(CONTINUED FROM PAGE TWO)

his father he goes to Peking and
enters the university there. His
life as a student is a good indicia
of the life of the average Chinese
student and forms an interesting
comparison with life in a Canadian
university. While attending the University he comes under the influence
of Tolstoi and he is so impressed
that for a time all his ideals are
changed, until one of his Russian
professors point out the fallacy in
Tolstoi’s arguments and reasoning.

Another incident which should not
be omitted in reviewing this book
is the period Tan spent in a Chinese |
monastry for the interesting an)
intimate picture it gives of the |
Chinese faith. |

The book ends with Tan’s emigra- |
tion to Russia to pursue his studies. |
The closing scene is the picture of |
Sun Yat-Sen’s funeral.

The book may on the whole
be criticized in many ways, but the
faults are ameliorated by the excuse
that it is a translation and all in all
the author has done an admirable
job. He has succeeded in describing
a very interesting life in a most in- |
teresting way. |

 

 

FROM THE

WINNERS "srker

For 60 years the REACH Trade
Mark on Sporting Goods has
been a mark of perfection. No
matter what your favorite sport
may be we can supply you with
equipment that will help you
play the game with the best
that’s in you.

Cragg Bros. Co.

Limited.
Hardware & Sporting
HALIFAX, N.S

Goods.

 

St.
\fumble gave the ball to St. Mary’s

  

Dal Americans and
St. Mary’s Play Tie

On Saturday, October 27, an upset in the American football league
was witnessed between St. Mary’s
and Dalhousie All Stars. Although
the rainy weather kept many from
attending the game, it did not
dampen the fighting spirit of both
teams which resulted in a 0--0 score,
checking the victorious onslaught of

the Dal punt-sters. St. Mary’s
showed a remarkable comeback
which more than redeemed their

former defeat from Dal.

Throughout the game, the Tigers
outplayed their opponents but always lost the ball near St. Mary’s
goal line. Cy Miller made a brilliant run, receiving the ball on Dal’s
own 10 yard line and running it down
the field for a 40 yard gain. A
fumble on Dal’s part gave the ball
to St. Mary’s who also lost it when
they failed to make the necessary
yardage. + The big penalty of the
game was given to St. Mary’s with
honors for clipping Allyn, Dal right
guard. Out of the 12 forward passes
attempted, only two were completed
one for each team. In the final
quarter, the Dal Tigers fought their
way down the field making a series
of first downs, bringing the ball to

Mary’s 10 yard line. Here a
and averted the scoring of a touchdown by the Tigers.

Abe Becker, Cy Miller, Carl
Kranz, and Leo Green proved to be
outstanding among the Dal team,
while each man played his best
game of the season.

The D. A. A. C., having granted
the American punsters the right to
use the name of Dalhousie, promises
to result in a greater recognition of
American football by the student
body in years to come. Much credit
is due to Coach Abe Mandelston,
Whose untiring efforts resulted in
the organization of the newly formed league.

I know my business — BUT
I need your head in it.

Haircuts 25c.

BERT BOWLBY
445 BARRINGTON STREET
(Over Buckley’s)

Halifax Transfer

~ B. 7138

 

 

 

MacLeod, Balcom

Limited

DRUGGIST

Halifax and Bedford

 

 

 
  
    
  
 
 
    
  
     
 
   
   
    
   
  
   
  
   
  
  
 
    
   
    
    

a ik so ine

ae AW: 