{

 

 

  
 

Something
To Think About

Japan has definitely denounced

the Washington Treaty. Nearly
three months of talking among the
representatives of the three powers
had been unable to stave off this
new menace to peace in the pacific.

However hope of some sort of
reconciliation has not been given up,
and negotiations are already being
contemplated to arrange for another conference. And it is sincerely hoped that results will be more
friutful than the last. If not, the
future seems to hold forth no other
‘alternative than as naval building
race whose result can only be war.

 

The results of the Saar plebiscite
certainly was no surprise, even the
most pessimistic ceded the election
in favor of Germany. But the overwhelming and decisive majority
was more than anyone expected.
Whether this will blot out the danger of anymore trouble in this historic piece of territory remains to
be seen. At any rate inhabitants
who are not pro Hitlerites are not
taking chances of a Nazi purge as
took place in Germany in June and
are rapidly fleeing from the Saar.

 

The recent closing of the Citrion
Automobile factory in France is a
cogent evidence that Premier Flandin’s widely heralded recovery pro
gram is not as successful as one

|

would be led to believe.

..One industry, however, appeared
to be flourishing and that—the arms
trade—must, according to Premier
Flandin be accelerated at all costs.
Just recently the Chamber of Deputies appropriated 800,000,000 francs
for defence. It sems rather odd but
there is always ample money for
armaments.

 

According to Sir Arthur Salter,
eminent British economist, business
conditions in all the leading nations
save in gold bloc countries is on an
upward trend. “It seems probable,”
he said, “that 1935 will be substantially more prosperous than 1934
and that before the end of 1936 the
world will have regained as high
a level of production and average
prosperity as in 1928.”

 

A recent notice posted outside the
library door to the effect that one
of the students of the University
had been fined $100. for mutilating
a book belonging to the library
should be a good and well deserved
warning to students to be more careful with library books not only for
the good of themselves and the University but for the good of fellow
students. But $100.00 is $100.00—
poor dad!

 

The League of Nations observed
its fifteenth birthday last Thursday. The League has enabled at
least a few men to see mankind as
a species and the world as a planet.
It has provided a liberal education
that was not known prior to 1920
and that is not now attainable outside Geneva. It has supplied mankind with the means and the hope
of correcting not only mistaken
discisions but structual defects in
the international machinery for
making decisions.

 

“Better Think Twice About It” a
collection of short stories by Luigi
_ Pirandello the Nobel Prize Winner
_ for 1934, has just come off the press.
_ The book possesses many qualities,

the stories are varied, individually
_ engrossing but best of all they give

documentary testimony to the literary stature of the author.

 

  
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  

Glee Club to present the show at
Mount Allison subject to the condition that it will not cost the Council
a cent. President Taylor explained
that the show having been rehearsed
for more than three months, it
would seem hardly worthwhile only
to stage it once.

' John Fisher, Freshman representative in the Students’ Council, turned
his big guns on fraternities and sororities at the meeting. The matter
under discussion was a request of
the Alpha Eta chapter of Alpha
Gamma Delta (sometimes called the
“Gabba-Gabba’s) for permission to
present oh February 11th at the
Capitol Theatre a program of entertainment to be advertised as a
“Dalhousie Night”, with a dance
afterward at the Green Lantern.

Mr. Fisher maintained that consent
of the Council to this request would
be equivalent to recognizing sororities and fraternities as official student organizations. “Anyway,” quoth
the gentleman, “it’s only a plan for
making little money for themselves.
If we say ‘yes’, then we’ll-have every
fraternity and sorority on our tails
saying ‘Look, you helped them to
them to make a little money by capitalizing on the university name?
What about us?’ By granting this
request we shall only be establishing
a bad precedent.”

Secretary Rankine strongly disagreed, saying that the Alpha Gams
are only a group of students, and
they can call themselves anything
they like. He pointed out that a real
Dalhousie Night, such as was customary a number of years ago,
would be a marvellous thing for getting the student body together for
once, and having them sing some of
the Dal songs. “And here,” said the
salaried expert, “we have a group of
students who are willing to do some
spade work for us. If it is successful, we can cash in on the idea in the
future.”

The request was granted, with a
growl of dissent from Mr. Fisher.
Some discussion centred around the

 

Tigers to Play
Mount Allison

Dalhousie’s crack basket-ball team
leaves on Saturday for Sackville, N.
B., where they will play the first of
a two game exhibition series with
Mt. Allison.
teresting as a test of the strength of
this year’s team. Last year Dal led

Mounties who were then Maritime
Champions. The return game will be
played at Studley, on Feburary 1st,
if present arrangements are carried
out.

This second game will be followed
by a basketball dance the proceeds
of which will defray expenses of the
series.

The following players will be making the trip: Don Bauld, Musgrave,
Ted Crease, Doug. Crease, Bill Gladstone, Anderson, Fairstein, Richardson, and will be accompanied by
Coach Stirling and Manager Bob

MacLellan.
ts eeasnseeneeseannststanuisindaiasninreossemashsennss

A meeting of the Newman Club
will be held at the Knights of Columbus Hall on Sunday, January 20,
at 4.30 p.m. At the meeting, important business will be discovered,
after which Dr. Gerald Burns will
give a talk.

 

The result will be in-|

|

out a 34 to 29 decision over the| direct the discussion with the purp
 

Official Student Publication ae SS

Ce re

  

HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA, JANUARY 17, 1935

Council Grants Requests _
For Various Activities

Permission was granted the Glee Club by the Council
on Tuesday evening» to present the three-act play, “The
Ghost Train’’ on two successive nights, February 2 and 6.
On the first night the show will be open to the pubhie at the
price of fifty cents, with a ten cent rebate on the tickets of
all Alumni and Alumnae. On the second night the show will
be presented to the student body in the usual manner.

Permission was also given the|

 

use of the name “Dalhousie Night.”

Francis “Tiger” Mackasey, hockey
manager, presented his budget to the
Council and secured consent to an
estimated expenditure of $344, fourfifths that of last year.

Further expenditures for boxing,
ping-pong, basketball and
sports were granted to the full extent of the $95.58 sought by President George Thompson of the D.A.A.
C. Mr. Thompson was also granted
$58.45 for expenditures in connection
with the N.F.C.U.S.

The proposal of bringing here a
debating team from the University
of New Brunswick in the near future
received a thorough wet-blanketing
at the Council meeting Tuesday evening, as well as a “six months hoist”
on the motion of Lawyer McEvoy,
“owing to financial stringencies”’.

While this probably means the
death of the intercollegiate circuit, it
was considered advisable, at least on
this occasion, to abandon the traditional policy of bring a debating
team here from one of the other
Maritime Colleges. The President of

Sodales, speaking on behalf of that |

organization on the matter, took
time off to inform the august assemblage that his resignation as head of
that society would shortly be in their
hands.

For the information of the uninformed Student’s Council, George
Thompson, eloquent head of the D.

A.A.C., told that body that the man- |
agement Committee of the D.A.A.C. |
is working hard this year to put the |

organization on its feet under a
workable constitution. This news
passed without comment.

Before vacating the floor, Mr.

Thompson brought to the attention |
|of the members of the Council an ar
ray of books which he had with him

from many universities of the Do-|

minion, which contained the constitutions and by-laws of all their
respective student organizations.
This struck Mr. Thompson as a very
good idea, and suggested that the
Council sponsor such a publication.
“It was”, he commented, “to my
surprise and horror that I found
Dalhousie had no such book.”

Dawson Club To Meet

 

The Dawson Geology Club will |

hold its first discussion group meeting on Saturday evening of this
week at the home of Miss Clara
Dennis, 45 Coburg Road.

other |

Skating Night For

Dalhousie Students

Dahousie is again to have a SkatIt will take place on
On that
evening at 7.30 the University hockey team will chew the rag with
representatives of St. Mary’s ColAfterward, from nine until eleven o’clock
that is for two entire hours, there
will a be a skating session for Dal| housie students, with music from St.
This costs only thirty
ing Night.
Wednesday, January 23.

lege, time-honored rivals.

Pat’s band
five cents.

The hockey team is a most important one,
that support you didn’t give the football team. Get out and root like
blazes for your team, as a Dalhousiand should.

Freshies vs. Sophs
In Bennett Debate

The second debate in the Bennett Shield competition will take
place on Thursday, January 24,
at noon, in Room 3 of the Arts
Building, between Classes ’37 and
°38.

Representing
will be the
McPherson,
and Miss

the Sophomores
versatile “Sandy”
Regina, as_ leader,
Margaret Drummie,
Saint John. The Freshman Class
will rely on David Maclellan,
clever Halifax boy, as leader, and
Miss Joey Cox, New Glasgow.

The topic promises to provide
something more than a debate,
namely, “Resolved, that in the
present social order, old age has
an unfair advantage over youth.”
The aflirmative will be staunchly upheld by the Sophomores.

The winning team will meet the
Seniors later in the term, the
Juniors having been defeated by
Class ’35 some time ago on the
subject of co-education.

Little Accomplished
At Freshie Meeting

With President Likely in the
chair, a listless and poorly atteudaed meeting of Class ’88 was held
| Tuesday noon in Room 8 of the
Arts building.

The Hon. John Fisher, Frosh
counsellor, held the floor for the
opening moments, in order to impart a little of his wisdom and experience to the lads and lassies as
to the voting of money for the class
hockey team. After making a passing reference to unpaid class fees,
he retired from the scene amid the
usual thunderous applause accorded him.

President Likely then sought information as to the proposed activities of the class hockey, softball, and basketball teams from the
various managers, and_ received
small satisfaction. He then brought
|up the matter of a class dance,
|which was warmly Supported by
Fred Barton. It was contended
that no one cares two hoots for
such a function, which seems to be
quite the case. Nevertheless a few
noisy occupants of back-row seats
cheered the proposal, The discussion was left in the hands of the

 

 

Professor Douglas, its mentor, will

ose of opening the subject of Con
social committee.

Miss Joey Cox was elected to the
debating team, replacing Miss Ruth
Wiegand, who will be unable to par
 

tinental Drift for further study.
His paper has received publication in
the Mining and Metallurgical Bulletin and the subject matter, being |
of a_ controversial nature, was
treated there as an open question.
The character of the subject will
undoubtedly give rise to much practical argument. Professor Douglas
has a number of very interesting
slides which he proposes to show
Saturday evening as a complement
to his paper.

This last fall the Dawson Club,
under the executive—Ernest S. Higgins, President; John H. MacLean,
Secretary; and Digby Lynch, Treasurer—held two field trips—one to
inspect the mining operations at
Montague Gold Mines, and the other
to inspect the field work being done

ticipate in the Bennett Shield competition next week,

The various discussions were
charmingly interspersed with brilliant running comment from George
B. Robertson.

Plans Made for
Munro Day

Plans for Munro Day are now being formulated by an energetic committee of members of the Student’s
Council, headed by Gordon Thompson, who was appointed at the Council meeting on Tuesday evening.

It was felt that Munro Day should
be fittingly celebrated by the students as in the past, according to
whatever plan is deemed best by the
committee looking into the matter,

 

by Geology 5 students at Purcell’s
Cove and southward.

| which will be reported on at the next
Council meeting.
|

Give the team a little of

GAZETTE

at Dalhousie University

 

 
 
 
   
   
  
  
 
   
   
    
  
  
  
   
   
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     
 
   

Millionaires driving up to

fore innumerable mirrors.
noses. Why, God only knows.
smile. Is this my dance?
Lost in a fog.

dresses with trains.
fought for.

Hall girls’ dresses.

Music getting a bit better.
Alas! Mr. Bishop and Milt

Dr. Gilchrist To

 

Dr. Sid Gilchrist will give an illus
trated talk on “Medical Work
Africa” Sunday evening, January 20,
at 8.30 p.m. in St. Andrew’s Church
Hall. Curios, slides and moving pictures will be shown by Dr. Gilchrist
speaking under the auspices of the
S. C. M.

Sid is a Dal grad. Before receiving his degree in ’26 he was for a
couple of years Secretary-treasure:
of the Medical Association, and led
Dal debaters against an Oxford
Cambridge Team.

Dr. Gilchrist is just back from
Africa and will be interesting. All
students welcome.

1D

  

City Intermediate
Basketball League

 

Dalhousie vs. N. S. Tech

_—_—

Thursday Night —
Studley Gymnasium

makers arriving in Model T Fords.
make the total count 200. Millionaires seeing red—visions of
a deficit—a huge deficit—but mouths closed—they won’t talk.

Visions of innumerable ties being carefully adjusted beBeautiful women powdering little

Flashing smile.

Give Talk on Africa

 

 

 

 

No. 12

 

 

Millhionaires-Boilermakers
Declared a Social Success—

Won’t Talk About Finances

The press must go on—and so we beg leave to present the
following version of the Millionaire’s-Boilermaker’s Ball—written during the wee sma’ hours

of the morning.
the hotel in limousines, BoilerEven lawyers came—to

Music—not so hot. Hello there,
Cute smile. No!

Dresses that swirl, dresses that Sweep, dresses that ripple,
Every one different.
Dresses that were cried for.
prayed for. Dresses that were paid for. Nothing like Shirreff
Party beginning to liven up.

Dresses that were
Dresses that were

Lanky, Musgrave mount the
stage. Torch singer with mannerisms of great artist—only
much worse. Hula-hula dancers

still worse. Merry Widow
| Waltz—fair. Tango—gettin g
better. Shame we can’t have

more. Mr. Bishop’s faney dancing was the best. Door prize,
Jim Crosby. Lucky dog. Music
getting better.

Supper! Surprised? All for
$3.00. And still the students
won't come. Everything from
soups to nuts—only none of
either. Novelties: horns, tin
horns, paper horns, whistles.
Pretty girls blow whistles.
Demitasse! Supper over.

Geo. Thompson, walking through
halls. Missed first dance, Looks
like he might miss the nine o’clock
class. The famous Creases broke
training? Must be visions of Mt.

A. Corners! Famous corners,
Music now. Paul Jones. Shirreff
Hall girls going home. Too bad—

means that party is just about to
begin. Good nites — fond good
nights. A song from Connie Jost,
Ah, sweet music—best thing of the
evening except door prize. Nearly
|time to go. Music just getting
| swell—so are Dalhousie’s
|Dream Girl—that means no more,
/no more, no more. Everybody happy. God Save the King. Good nite,

heads,

 

Ye none tears eerie ate | Ne
oe and Richardson Chosen
For Radio Debating Team

 

Irving Pink and J. E. Richardson
were selected to represent Dalhousie
University Sunday night in a radio
debate over the Canadian Radio
Commission January 25th. Selection
was made after a voice test at the
radio control room at the Nova
Scotian Hotel.

These two men were chosen after
trials on Friday night in the Munro
Room, in which eight men competed. Those who were eliminated
included Bernard Andrews, Dave
Redmond, Nate Green, Edward Arab,
Leo Landreville and I, Mercer. Mr.
Landreville, it was intimated, was
selected to represent Dalhousie
should she defeat U. N. B. and debate against a Quebec University.

The subject was, “Resolved that
Co-education Should Be Abolished in
Our Universities”. One fact in particular was conspicuous, namely, the
absence of the female sex. This was
probably for the best, for many of
the speakers, notably Messrs. Pink,
Launderville and Richardson, discussed the moral side of having the
female sex present in the same
school as men, carefully and conscientiously.

From their remarks one would be
led to believe that if these gentlemen were not noted for their high
moral standard at the University,
that they spoke from personal experience, and further, that they had

good cause to desery the presence of
women at Dalhousie.

Professors Johnson and Bennett
very capably filled the position of
judges.

One point merits consideration,
and that is the small number present at such an important meeting of
Sodales. When eight speakers turn
out it is a sorry state of affairs,

Even though there were many outside events, other than Sodales; on
the same evening, there certainly
should have been more than ten
people present.

The reason for this lies undoubtedly in the student body, for the executive of Sodales are doing their
best. They can’t put Sodales over
without the Support of the students.
It is the duty of every student in
Dalhousie to be present at some Sodales gathering, not for the sake of
the executive but for their own
good. There is no organization in
Dalhousie which will do every student as much good as Sodales.

A university graduate is expected
to be able to get up on his or her
feet and express an opinion. Ninetyfive per cent of the students who
graduate from Dalhousie are afraid,
yes, afraid, to stand up and speak
because they are nervous. They are
nervous because they are inexperienced. Sodales is the place to get
experience.
4
4

mar Nf 72h 2 ee ae

  
   
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
   
  
 
 
   
 
 
   
 
  
   
  
  
  
  
   
   
 
  
   
    
    
 
   
 
   
  
 
 
   
  
  
  
  
    
    
 
 
  
  
  
 
   
  
  
   
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
   
       
    
  
 
  
 
   
   
  
 
    
    
    
    
     

“The Moving Finger writes, and
having writ, Moves on.”
Omar Khayyam.

 

 

EDITORIAL STAFF

nothing but complain, forgetting
that any mule can kick.

This petilent condition must be
carefully distinguished from another
attitude towards life with which it
is often confused, namely, the
healthy question-asking which has
marked the youth through all ages.
It seems to have always been the
natural prerogative of youth to be
radical in thought and deed, and
sceptical towards the accepted and
respected beliefs and institutions of
the day. Such an attitude, if honest and not affected, is a healthy
one. Against it, if it is present at
Dalhousie, we do not complain, but
against the captious fault-finding
which is only too evident.

Criticism, such as we so often
meet with on the campus, is surely
only justified where the critic has
full knowledge of the facts. Let us
remember that “cynicism is often

i The authorities of customs of the English Restoration
eae Sega are wrong! They have said that the custom of “giving
hee es eee WW,

|| —sd#Rvery spring since the

1” has ished. Far from it.
oe writer has been here to observe,

: a:

~

ray Editors DALHOUSIE ee
+REHY RLAND > : W. A. REID| Students are often criticized, an
Sa = HS as8 a B. 5827 rightly so, for their negative faulti % Edito finding attitude towards life. We are
Edi Sports Editor | chronic kickers. When we have
Gieete borers BILL DAVIS |nothing better to do, which is not
= 2 etoa B. 4884 often, we “pan” the Students
. ; | Adslotant Council, the D. A. A. C., or the Uni__ _ Business Manager . MEAGHER versity authorities. There seems to
. D. WALLACE ROWLINGS oe ae 2886 be an epidemic of back-biting and
as B. bis oe fault-finding which is always with
CTT us. Instead of putting our shoulders
| | MUD together to the college wheel, we ;

| ly for years before that, the crooked path from
ee Breet to the Arts Building has been the scene of reee poet regalia narrow boards, laid, like our paved highways,
«fn one to ten proportion—one foot of board to ten feet of
muddy road. A youth and a maid approach each other, balancing like log-rollers at Lake William. They meet. What is to
-. be done? It is impossible to pass, so the young man courteously. steps off into the muck to allow the maiden to proceed
; way.
a 4 "Ghee tila have walked on the grass and ruined the sod,
_-but fortunately for the beauty of the grounds, most of them
have the decency to rc = ca though narrow,
pat ich has been carelessly laid.
ee dans last week nk similar scene, but without the
planks. Rubbers, shoes, stockings and trouser cuffs bore mute,
brown testimony of the walking conditions. For three days,
this path was the only place in the city used by students going
and coming to classes where rubbers had to be worn. This

a
b . >
™" il ?

i a

> 4 4 - All *

i ty a
see May
ies igs 7
fies 1s

. *
%

spring will be a repetition of all the others. Cannot something|the result of half - knowledge”.
be done about it? Moreover, one might better keep

his mouth shut if his critical remarks are unaccompanied by constructive proposals. While the
pointing out of errors by the inactive by-stander may at times be of
value, generally speaking, one can
and should level criticism only when
he is sure that he is doing his share
in making college activities go. For
example, we often hear the decline
|of college spirit lamented by stu|dents who do nothing to make up
the deficiency. Such an attitude certainly contains the essence of hypocrisy. Examples might be almost
indefinitely multiplied, but are so
well-known that enumeration of
them would be superfluous. Let us
all reform, if there is any capability
of reform in us, and be boosters, not
knockers; constructive, not destructive, and thus erect a New Jerusa
lem in Dalhousie’s fair and pleasant
land.

‘The ideal solution is a cement walk, but this seems to be
a financial impossibility. Flagstones or rolled gravel would be
an acceptable substitute to yellow mud if the walk were graded.
Our embryonic engineers could construct one in an afternoon
if the materials were supplied.
ei But the least that could be done would be to have a cat_ walk or duck-boards made, which could be easily and quickly
laid as a walk which would at least be free from mud in wet
weather. The cost could be met by the imposition of an ad1 fee to each student—or by some of the other convenee Ieee Ae Lah. a. ae ., . j

: »*
ers

c we want it. Why can’t we have it? —

en

‘
S
i

me

  

a) Bag
a2 ae,

EXAMINATIONS

Christmas Examinations, long a bugbear to Dalhousie
students, seem to be the subject of criticism these days. One
writer in the last Gazette was openly scornful of their use; the
_ “Rambler” doubtfully admitted they might have some purposes,
and at present the Gazette has received one letter on the point.
% Why, then, these examinations? Their history lies back
in the past when students were expected to toe the line. Since
then, they have been a convention—something painful that
comes regularly to destroy all pre-Christmas pleasures, something taken for granted and borne with unquestioning fortitude. About the only defence raised in favour of examinations
is that they make the students do some work: But does he
work, under them, as he should? Examinations tend to favour
plugging, learning for the moment, although the primary function of a university is to urge learning for its own sake. Examinations have reduced what is known as education to a series
of mental touches, each to be stormed and taken, each capture
rewarded with its own degree and the number of degrees
representing the height of education. The doing away with
Christmas examinations might be a step towards a better
system.

The exams are responsible for what is nothing less than
misery to most students. Conditions in the Medical School, for
instance, just before the exams is really uncivilized. At present the students do not desire them, except as checks for
freshmen. The professors, on the other hand, complain regularly that their vacations are made hideous with vile script and

worse reasoning.
. No one wants them, so why Christmas Exams?

 

 

STUDY—EXAMS.

Already two weeks of the second
term have passed—two weeks of
supposed study in many cases and
of hard driving in the case of
others. There are many people in
this world who talk of things that
they do not understand, and this applies in particular to the student.
Realism fades in the distance when
one enters college and in too many
cases does not reappear until the
student is cast adrift to earn his
living with nothing to back him but
an Art or Commerce degree as the
case may be. I often wonder if that
certain type of student, who spends
the greater part of the day either
over a cup of coffee in the University store or frolicking in the Gym,
and who at night divides his time
between bridge, poker, shows and
dances, would take his job a little
more seriously if he only stopped
to think.

In more than one case his presence here is the result of great sacrifice at home and he really is in no
position to fool away his time, for
his future is entirely up to himself.
Would this chap change his attitude? Ask yourself if you are in
the same category as our imaginary
student. Dividends accrue only as
the result of hard work.

Perhaps the fault lies in our examination system, especially as regards certain courses. In these particular courses two weeks’ review at
the end of the course is all that is
needed to pass the course and obtain a fairly decent mark. Would
not weekly tests keep the student
on his toes and.thus obviate such
conditions? Better still, why not,
as so often has been advocated, do
away with exams and leave it entirely up to each student. Then

COUNCIL AND FRATERNITIES

Ever since fraternities and sororities became common on
this campus, they have been the subject of warm praise and
hot denouncement. But, because they represent a mere clique,
and not an inclusive group of students, they have never been
given any more than a de facto recognition by the University
authorities and by the Students’ Council. It was with some
surprise we learned, then, of what amounted to a recognition
of a Greek letter society by the Council at their last meeting.
Whether or not they should be recognized is a debatable
point, but it seem if they are to exist, they should be able to
finance themselves. The Council’s action in granting permission to a prominent sorority to sponsor a Dalhousie Theatre
_ Night enables that body to invite other students to pay their
bills. And if the Council has granted on sorority permission
_ to graft off the students, it can expect the others and the
fraternities to seek the same privilege. If it continues, we may
expect a series of Theatre nights, Skating nights, Dance nights,
Bowling nights and so on, each designed to help some clique
finance its parties.
_ The idea of a Theatre night is a good one, but we suggest
_ the profits should go, not to any sorority or fraternity but tc
_--—s- one or a group of the many Dalhousie societies. The Societies
_ of Medicine, Law, or Commerce would gladly accept a chance to
make money, we think, and could back it to a success just as
eae well as any fraternity.

a.
eee i
ae Oe

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
  
 
 
 
   
   

January 17, 193:

 

JOURNALISM

The rumor raised recently as to
the possible creation of a chair of
Journalism at Dalhousie has apparently met with favorable comment
on all sides. For insofar as Arts,
Science, and the professional schools
are concerned, Dalhousie is well outfitted. This is one of the only two
universities in the world offering a
course in Fisheries. We have a Grade
“A” Medical School, last year lead~
ing all Canada. Our Law School is
head and shoulders over any other
in the Dominion. We are affiliated
with eminent schools of theology,
music and engineering, and our Arts
and Science school bows to none.

We have no call for many courses,
such as one in Architecture, there
being barely ten architects in the
province. Chiropodists and chiropractors, barbers and brewers seemingly can do without university
training.

But we do need a chair of Journalism. All of us rant about the
type of newspaper found in Canada.
Let a foundation be laid to a movement of reform. Let Dalhousie
graduate students prepare to change
things for the better.

Suppose a chair were instituted
for such men and women. It would
bring students from every part of
the country? Why? Simply because there are countless persons
who wish to go far in the journalistic world and do things, but cannot
take advantage of courses offered in
New York and London. These places
are distant and expensive.

If Dalhousie had a chair of Journalism it would be an invaluable
drawing card. At the present time
there are a goodly number of students at this university who are
heading for journalism. Some plan
to go to Columbia, some to London
University, others to jump plumb
into the newspaper world without
one good idea or an ounce of preparation. If a journalistic course
were open to them here, these students could be kept here longer,
bringing more money to Dalhousie,
and costing them less than if they
were to go elsewhere, outside Canada.

These students would automatically become the staff of the Gazette,
into which they would be expected,
as part of their course, to inject a
little of their talent, thereby gaining experience and giving Dalhousie
a really good student publication.

Their courses would be so arranged
that there would be no taking of

tionable value. They would make a
close study of current events, history, English language, and literature, the workings of law and government. They would write about
all these things during and as part
of their courses, editorially and rep
le

ee

————————
——————

POET’S CORNER

ONE DAY

L'o-day I have been lonely. uAll the while

I’ve spent im memories and thoughts of you:

The little thimgs you used to say and do,

Your deep-blue eyes, your quick and charming smile.
How clearly I recalled your swift dark hair,

the thrilling touch of your coressing hand

Upon my brow—’Tis hard to understand

That we are parted now.

But stil I dare
T'o hope that, some day, you and I will meet
Withm a little room and realize
That all our lonely seeking’s at an end,
Then I will hear your gentle voice and sweet

Call through the dusk, and,

looking in my eyes,

You'll see a light and slowly comprehend.

chair of Journalism would be not
merely another chair, but a service
to innumerable young people
throughout the land, and in the long
run a good influence cn our much |
berated newspaper. !

 

EPITAPH |

|

Jane Merton was sixty-nine when |
she died. She died as she had lived |
—quietly and unobtrusively. The
Gregory household, in which she |
had spent the last thirty years of |
her life, hardly realized that she
was gone. She had impressed no
personality upon its memb2rs—|
save that of silent goodwill; even
Mrs. Gregory whom she had nursed
from infancy, knew nothing but the
outward details of her life, and
those only from the time of her
appearance in her mother’s family.
For Jane was a woman of few intimicies; she had shared no personal

thoughts with onyone since the
death of Mrs. Mortimer, Mrs. Gregory’s mother. They had been

girlhood friends.

Mary Waters had a stronger will
and deeper integrity than Jane,
and when she married James Mortimer and moved with him several
hundred miles away from her home,
Jane felt as if the backbone of her
life had gone. She had been so accustomed to live according to Mary’s
ideals that, with hier departure, she
found it difficult and indeed imposable to formulate any of her own.
And when, some years later, she arrived at the Mortimer’s house with
her child, it was Mary who calmed
the overwrought Jane and adopted
her baby.

But, as years went by, their positions were reversed. Mary become

|depencent upon her husband’s firm(er mind and formed the habit, in

useless subjects or subjects of ques- |

her later days, of always referring
matters of even trifling importance
to him; the disappointment of hav
|ing no children of her own soured

ortorially. Lectures would be given |

on the laying out of a page, composition of headings, correction of
proofs, and writing of stories.
Shorthand and typewriting would
be additional courses, (These could
be taken at other institutions in the
city.)

Men and women, completing such
a course, would be welcomed to
newspaper staffs anywhere. It would
not be their lot never to get beyond
reporting and sub-editing, as it is
with so many. They would be
equipped not only to raise the calibre
of the modern newspaper, but also
worthy of contributing to famous
magazines and reviews.

The point is, that
ssenssonssamemmsen tat pesenseisnideenessciten sachets
those who come to college to have
a god time would not have to burn
the midnight oil in order to remain
—they would get all they came for
and no more. What could be fairer
—quid pro quo,

Those who come to work and
carve a niche for themselves in the
world would have their chance of
ze
from the college. Fair enough!
| As affairs are at present there are
| too many loopholes whereby a student can obtain his or her degree
with a scarcity of work, and in
many cases knowing less at the end
of the road than at the beginning.
A famous wit once wrote, “Aim

however, a

 

high in life and if you don’t hit the |
bull’s-eye you’ll hit the first circles.” |

Omar Khayyam himself in a moment of great thought wrote:
“Then fancy which thou
Art, thou art but what
Thou shalt be—Nothing—
Thou shalt not be less.”

her outlook, and she was jealous if
the child showed more affection for
Jane, which, however, was seld m,
than for herself. On the other
hand, Jane, with the consciousness
of her sacrifice, became more selfcontrolled; she was calmer both in
mind and speech; the fierce turmoil
and bitted resentment with which
she had first heard the girl address
Mary as mother never wholly left
her, but this emotion was sublimated
to a high sense of self-denial. In
the presence of her daughter, she
was meek and sparing of words;
she never dared to speak openly with
the girl for fear that, inadvertently, she might rouse some suspicion
in her mind. She was content; she
was near Mary Jane, for that, ironically enough, the child had been
christened; she had an audience for
her heroism in Mrs. Mortimer who
never tired of praising her, Jane

The Martyr

On her heart was stamped forever
The picture of the gnarled dead tree.
And she thought...

We are alike,

Our hearts are dead

From storms of life

That beat upon us.

 

At dusk...
Still as death ...

'‘She sat and watched the birds
tting exactly what they want)

Leave the bareness for the gentle
foliage

Of other trees.

She would never leave this symbol,

Sinister and cruel

As the sorrow within her heart.

In a field I hear the birds
Singing. My heart is happy
With their notes.

And nearby I see her sitting
Faithful fool,

 

Gazing at the tree
More dull, more dead.
And she...

I passed her by.

M. C. M.

 

was always aware of Mary’s admiring eyes; this was sweet to her
who, until now, had been the weaker of the two.

When Mrs. Mortimer died, Jane
went to live with Mary Jane who
had married Thomas Gregory, a
socially prominent lawyer. The
temptation to reveal her true
status wes ever present in Jane’s
mind, Why should she not have
one word of love from her own
daughter before she died? Surely
it was her due after all these years
of sacrifice. But, with strength of
heart which she had not known that
she possessed, she refrained. Her
daughter’s equanimity was more
to her than any passing emotion. So
she kept the knowledge to herself;
it was her “gracious gesture.”

Mrs. Gregory, speaking of Jane
shortly after the latter’s death,
said, “I never could understand why
mother was so fond of Jane. Oh, I
liked her well enough—she was a

g00d woman—but she had no mind
of her own.”

 

 

Dentistry Defeats
Com..Eng. 13.2

The steady pitching of Ken Cougle
backed by excellent fielding gave
Dentistry a decisive win in their first
regular league game. On only one
inning were the losers able to score,
when in the third two runners crossed the plate. The remaining innings
were easy work for the Dents.
Comm.-Eng. showed form in the
fourth and fifth in holding Denistry
scoreless. Bloan at first for the winners spectacular in fielding,
stopping many a hot grounder, Paul
Goldman and Bill Valerie led the
scoring for the game with three
each.

was

Dent.—P. Goldman, l.f.; Cougle, D3
W., Valerie, 3b; P. Bloan, 1b; B. Lipschitz, c; A. Cohen, s.s; L. Brown,
2b; H. Helflich, r.f.; B. Greenough, c.
f.; B. Diamond replaced Heflich in
6th.

Comm.-Eng.—L. Petrie, ¢; R. Hisler, p; T. Crease, 1b; D. Bauld, 2b;
I. Proctor, 3b; R. Hurst, s.s.; R. Harrison, c.f.

Answer to Puzzle

Horizontal — 1, Sutherland; 10.
ashes; 11. onion; 13. em; 15. as; 16.
he; 17. thri; 19. il; 21. go; 22. nerve;
24. ah; 20. order; 28. abaci;
ion; 31. nobel; 32. en: 34. N.E.; 35.
get; 37. ado; 39. too; 41. et; 42 tr;
43. an; 45. W.C.; 46. Book of Bunk.

Vertical—1. sap; 3 the; 4 hem; 5.
E. S.; 6 lo; 7 ana; 8. unless; (Latin)
9. do; 12. no; 14. err; 16, horn: 17.
tern; 18. Ivan; 20 lace; 21 Goudge;
22. neon; 23. ebon; 25. hillock; 27.
diet; 29. abet; 33. A.D.; 36 ebb; 37.
ark; 38. oaf; 40. own; 42. to; 44.
N.B.

 

 

Canterbury Room

While students were at
home during the summer
The Green Lantern made
a decided change in decorating The Canterbury
Room. Cosy and very nice,

The Green Lantern

 

 
        
  
   
     
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
     
       
 
   
  
 
   
   
   

en

. i
_
i :e s F
ep lig Ag
ews fee or,
ee YT

- : as

 
 
 
 

Programmes, invita‘tions, and favors for
dances require thought
and early planning.

4
rig * ¢

- For that added
-..$martness, consult

 

{ oe Birks. |

fee . |

| Henry Birks & Sons

eer _ Limited

Ripe - DIAMOND MERCHANTS
Halifax, N. S,

 

 

THE FOURTH BOOK

- 1, And so it has come to pass
that the Lande of Dal hath suddenly
--—s- become calm and quiet, as a lull before the Storme. So peaceful are
S the children of Dal that the chronicler can find leetle about which to
relate. The Geem is gently buzzing
with the preparations of the warriors who will defend “The Leetle
College by the Sea” in forthcoming
battles. Under the watchful eye of
Stirling the Small, and Big: Jeem
(who has lately been noticed wearing the Bear-skin), the chasers of
the basket ball are hunting far and
wide to find the basket wherein
'- which to throw the ball, but as yet

Then, also, the hitters of the softball are already waging bitter
battles, and the Studes of Law are
smarting from defeat of the Meds,
while, too, the “Little Ministers”
are defeating all who come within
their wake.
fe «62. «6‘Then, Sod-A-Lees, not to be
outdone by any Soc-eye-tee, is becoming more buzy each day. It is
now seeking new fields to conquer,
as it will soon battle wits with its
Coz at New Brunswick. The difficulty of choosing a team was great,
__.and two Try-als had to be made be_ fore the Tongue-Slingers were
___ chosen. Finally, after much thought,

’

rt ~

  

cided that the Seelver-tongued voice
of Rich-ard-sohn was the best, and
he was the first to be picked, while
his Kolleague was Peenk, who for
_. two days had waved his tongue to
no leetle advantage. Together, once
again, these two will attempt to uphold the fame of Dal in a battle of
the Wits, and it is hoped that they
will succeed better than their schoolBik, mates of former years.

3. The Lande of Dal hath in the
past few days become a court for
the trials of Kreemenals, as it hath
been rumoured that those Studes
who deface the Bhuks of the Lhibe

|| POETRY REVIEW

_ they are succeeding none too well. |

_._  Ben-Yett, Jonz-tins, and Mercer de-|

aS a... ' a. E - J
eee we a
Bee Re eS Ls

i? a ©

  
 
  

 

Your reviewer has had the questionable privilege during the past
vacation of a pre-publication reading of the latest brain-child of a
would-be famous alumnus of dear
old Dalousy,. Mr. Gray Thomas
Catt. This poem, written about his
Alma Mater during a Christmas
Eve party, is a sentimental effusion
of love for his University as seen
through a romantic haze of idealism.

; The poet’s offspring arrived at the
reviewer’s desk during a severe
storm, and the very cover of the
manuscript reminded the reviewer
of the poet himself—all wet and
slightly warped. This mental effervescence bore the title, “Ode On
a Distant Prospect of Dalousy
College”, and, with intense interest
and trepidation, the reviewer began

jto read. The poem begins:

“Ye muddy path from Morrris St.,
So dirty and so rough:

How often have I browned my feet
And stained my trouser cuff

On thee, and many curses gave,

While Carleton, with a word, could

pave
Thy winding length with cheap
cement!
Oh! when thine edge, that verdant
sod,

By Co-Ed’s feet appears untrod,
Then will I die, content.”

The poet rhapsodizes thus about
the beauty of the walks around the
Campus for five verses. Then he begins to reminisce about the then
familiar figures of the University,
most of whom have passed on to
kindle the fires of intellect in a place
where there is a wealth of fools and
Pe as it is—the fuels!

“A Bennet lectures for an hour,
And still he sayeth naught;
Then speaks a moment of a flower,
Words with importance fraught.
|A Martin rolls an eye and smiles,
And talks of Restoration wiles
In days of gallantry.
|A Jewitt looks the Freshies o’er,
Gives them a theme a week, or
more—
Just as he did with me.”

 

And so Mr. Catt goes through the
different departments of the University, now running joyfully to caress
a professor, now creeping silently
upon another to deliver a slash of
tearing claws, but, like a cat, alwas willing to fawn over and be |
faithful to any master as long as he |
is well treated and does not have to
do anything distasteful. How, too,
he loves to bask and dream in the
sun of those brighter days!

This somnabulistic excogitation
ends in a sensuous, frenzied calenture where the poet leaps into a sea
of words invoking his afflatus not

ee ee
P + at 1
* + 4

Yh.

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Campus Cross Word

TFPI
ott? ae er
fT ia f
Tin.

"TET
ried me || |
eri mst t
Ti i =
Pe rar
42 43 |44 45

ee te

HORIZONTAL

    
 

   
  
  

  
    
  
  
   
 
 

   
  

    
   
  
  

VERTICAL
The man who just pays and

1.- Staunch Pictonian, and by the pays a couple.

way editor of the Gazette.

 

on GE I Sing’.
10. When smoke gets in your eyes 4. To fold over and sew down.
there’s this on the carpet. 5. Eastern Section (Abbr.)
11. Peel this and weep. 6. Behold!
18. Printer’s measure. 7. Accumulation of facts.
: 8. Unless (Latin).
hee 9. Accomplish.
16. Co-ed’s delight. 12. Definitely not.
17. Consisting of three. 14. Don’t do this on your exams,
19. Illinium ( Abbr.)
1. You do this on the green. you a perfect mark.
2. Shirreff Hall girls have a lot|16. A much needed accessory on a
of this. crowded dance floor.
24, Exclamation of delight. 17. A sea gull’s cousin.
25. Command . 18. Russians call him “terrible”.
8. A device for counting. 20. A shoe needs this.
0. Only McCurdy’s papers have!21.

This fellow also runs the Gaz
this label. Jett.
31. The prize won this year by|22. Gaseous element.
Luigi Pirandello. 23. Black.
2. Half an em. 25. A little hill.
34, Northeast. 27. What they live on at Shirreff
5. Obtain. Hall.
7. “Much—about Nothing”. 29. To Aid.
39. Also. 33. In the Year of Our Lord.
41. Ebony (Abbr.) 36. Low tide.
42. Train (Abbr.) | 87. Noah doesn’t live here any
43. Indefinite article. more.
45. Woman’s Congress. 38. Idiot.
46. “And so it came to pass that|40. To possess.
this became the favorite of the|42. Towards.

GazJett.” 44. New Brunswick.

EATON’S

 

 

    
 

 

 

 

 

Bailoon Cord Tires

   
  
 
 
 
  
     
   
     

and all the professors will give Pine Hill on Parade’

Page Three

 

RIGHT DOWN
YOUR ALLEY!

Cool, mild, mellow,
Satisfying! Yes, sir,
and where quality is
concerned, Turrets are
“right down your alley”. That’s the truth
and you can easily
prove it yourself! Try

Cigarettes

Turrets today ! ae

 

Quality and Mildness

urret

CIGARETTES
SAVE THE POKER HANDS

Imperial Tobacco Company of Canada, Limited.

 

e

wondering ears were greeted with
the hitherto unknown fact that the
gentleman had been a bootlegger.
“For,” said our worthy soap-box
orator, “he brew, he brew, and he
brew.”

Jack “Great” Scott appeared with

“Gentlemen!

Here we have the most stupendous bargain ever offered to the
public. ‘Heaven and Hell’ (Swedenborg) between the covers of a

book. Gentlemen, what am I of-|@N arm-load of trash, which was
fered?” hurriedly examined by his roomWith these words Auctioneer|mate to see whether Ada’s precious

Hardwick (or Hard-stick—the name
is always confusing) opened an auction sale of all the rubbish (and
there was plenty) which he could
find in Pine Hill. The only thing
he left out of the list of lots was
himself. But to get back to the
subject with which the report opened, that “priceless” treasure found
only one bidder, whose name we
considerately refrain from mentioning. To this gentleman the first
part of the title was sold for the
ridiculous sum of ten cents, “the
rest”, in the words of the auctioneer,
“to be delivered upon non-receipt
of the purchase price.”

Shoes and slippers of all deseriptions and of all sizes (paddles
thrown in) were offered, but there
were surprisingly few bidders. Indeed the auctioneer was moved upon several occasions to indignation
to the general lack of appreciation
among his audience.

Among other bargains was a
camera, which, we were informed,

tapestry necktie was in with the
rest of the wrecks. Satisfied, he
rose to his feet and announced that
his coming-out party had been
stopped by his barber. But that’s
neither hair nor there, as MacVicar
would say.

 

Plans have been made for the annual Residence At Home. All the
various committees have been
chosen, and the date tentatively set
for the 22nd of February.

 

Ted Short is wondering whether it
was correct to accept an invitation
from a young lady of comparatively
“short” acquaintance to give him a
drive home after a particularly
strenuous time at the rink. Mr.
Short refuses to make any statement concerning in what regard the
time was strenuous, but we suspect
it was in making her extend the invitation.

 

to desert him until his masterpiece
are to be made to pay the Xtreme is completed. Unfortunately, his

F Penalty of one hundred dollars. "Tis divine inspiration vanishes, leaving

- to teach the Studes of Dal What him to ineffectually finish the poem

* es gang ars made of, and as ’tis | without supernatural aid. The final
ee a 2 ao ee \verse is quite earthy and materialceptions. There are further Rum- i a ers a he =e

__ ers which tell us that the next fines Se REPORT:

_ will be placed upon those who took
too much Vak-ashun, and returned
to Kollege more tardy than they
should have. “The time hath come,”
spoke King Karl, “when the children
of Dal should once again become
serious-minded, but if they do not
they will become empty-pursed”’,
And thereby ends the tale.

“How should these students bear
their fate,
These Co-Eds, sleek and smug ?
The Council members ramp and rate,
Each lad shoots off his mug.
Yet all the skirts at Shirreff Hall
Put on their best for every ball
And hope the escorts come.
Tomorrow we can skip a class
And sleep till noon—Oh, let it pass!
"Tis folly to be dumb.”

<neretnec eee ge

    
 
 
    

I know my business — BUT
I need your head in it.

. Ps Haireuts 25¢.
oo BERT BOWLBY

*- 445 BARRINGTON STREET
, (Over Buckley’s)

 

| It was with a tender feeling, deep
and sincere, that the reviewer turned the final page of this wonderfully
touching poem. The expressions
struck a _ responsive chord in the
Teviewer’s soul so that it vibrated
in tune with that of a kindred spirit,
and a mysterious sensation, as if
he -had written the poem himself,
surged through him.

Looking back on those old and
wonderful days at Dalousy, he
could visualize the Campus as it
was in the long gone year of 1935,
the Campus with its muddy walks,
eccentric professors and charming
Co-Eds. What a contrast to the
Dalousy of today! All the romantic appeal is gone, and it is with a
heavy heart that the reviewer closes
his brief comment on this truly

 

    

MacLeod, Balcom
Limited

DRUGGIST

     
   

  

- Halifax and Bedford

 

  
  
  
    
 
    
   
    
   
   
  
  

values!

 

words of Keats:

&T.

splendid poem with the immortal] other girls.

At Mid-Winter Sale Prices

Guaranteed for one year!

AT

MARI T

 
   

“Hercules”

Size 4ply 6ply
30x34 3.94 ——
4.40x21 4.95 6.15
4.50x21 5.63 7.35
4.75x19 6.27 7.75
4.75x20 6.60 8.10
5.00x19 6.95 8.40
5.00x20 7.00 8.75
5.25x18 7.75 9.45
5.50x19 8.95 10.85

“No! those days are gone away,
And their hours are old and gray,
And their minutes buried all
Under the down-trodden pall

Of the leaves of many years.”

OBSERVER

One day, within earshot of Ob-| a
Server, a group of the “Hall” gossips were discussing some of the

Before you buy any tires, compare
Compare any points that denote the value, but bear in
mind that “Hercules” tires are of 25,000 mile construction!

had actually once photographed the
Crown Prince of Siam in his bath.
It was regretfully announced, however, that the photograph was no
longer in print, and that consequently no copy of it could be sold with
the camera, whereupon Scoates’ bid
of 67c was withdrawn and the antique went for forty-three.

There was offered also a Hebrew

| intrinsic value was greatly augmented by the fact that the auctioneer

| In fact, he was able to give some in|sight into the life and work of that
late lamented gentleman, and our

 

      

WINNERS *°oM ree

For 60 years the REACH Trade
Mark on Sporting Goods has
been a mark of perfection. No
matter what your favorite sport
may be we can supply you with
equipment that will help you

play the game with the best
that’s in you.

CRAGG BROS. CO,

Limited,

Hardware & Sporting Goods.
HALIFAX, N. S.

 

o

LIMIT.D

me

 

Observer learned that
Lou Morrison spends her time looking at the ’phone and fretting away
her soul (and mind) as she worries
about a “dateless” evening.

 

 

Here’s a pun the Count likes to
tell.
“Is Professor Stewart a mineral,
vegetable, or an animal?”
“Tl bite. Which? and why?”
“He’t a vegetable, because he’s
| ‘Herbie’.”

Halifax Transfer
" B. 7138

SD
—
2 ee eee

and Chaldee lexicon, of which the | :
thought of potential immorality go‘ing on under his roof.
had known Mr. Chaldee personally. |

All the Theologs attending a 2.30
class on Tuesday afternoon were
shocked at the sight of two beds,
complete with pillows and mattresses, two easy chairs and a floorlamp, placed conspicuously near the
door of the hallowed Arts Building.
Lester was surrounded by excited,
gesticulating persons, who demandec
}an explanation. The noble gentleiman’s moustache bristled at the
A long conference with Prof. Theakston followed, and Lester won his point. The
articles were removed to the Forrest
Building, where they belonged, and
the reputation of Studley was saved.

 

 

HALIFAX TAXI CO.

 

 

At xu B-7376

Service

Lowest Rate to Students.

 

| Student’s Special

SUITS or TOPCOATS
perfectly dry cleaned
and pressed

$1.25

 

 

Sponged and Pressed, 45c.
Called for and delivered.

Telephone Lorne 2323.

Cousins’ Limited
Dry Cleaners - Dyers - Tailors

|
| “None better—anywhere”

|

i

 

 
  

 

a

 

.
“.
.

  
    
    
 

 

key Tigers Down Tech
In Opening Game, 3-1

Cohn, Stanfield and Godwin Score For Dal.

The Dalhousie Tigers got away to a good start in the
City Intercollegiate Hockey League Monday night by defeating the Nova Scotia Tech team by a 3 to 1 score. |

The Dal forward line, showing the result of Doug Bent’s
coaching, clicked impressively |at the start of the game and
“before Brown in goal for Tech got his bearings, the little
red light behind him had flickered twice giving Dal an 1m
posing two goal lead.

The game opened fast, and Cohn,
tricky centre of the Dal first string
line, was through for a goal before
the three minute mark. Shortly after the face off, P. Stanfield, playing his first game for Dal, belted a
fast one past Brown on which the
Tech goalie had no chance.

This ended the scoring in the first
period. Dal now began to play a
semi-defensive game which gave the
opposing forwards a chance to
show up. Thompson and Flemming
on several nice passing bouts tested

_ Kyte in the Dal goal shortly after

the start of the second period. The
play remained in Dal territory,
while Doug Bent of the Tiger defence rested with the timers, for
roughing it up on the defence But
Jack Carroll, another new comer to
the team, was stepping into his men
hard and often, and ably assisted
the goal-tender in keeping his net
clear. Play tightened up considerably when Flemming fired one past
the Dal goalie from close up.

up, in a desperate attempt to score
the equalizer. Sending four men
down the ice, Tech gave the Dal
team some anxious moments, but
the pressure was relieved when
Johnny Godwin, breaking fast on
right wing, coasted in to give Brown
no chance on a hard shot from the
corner.

Following rumors that the team
was to be abolished, the showing of
the boys last night was particularly
gratifying to the team’s supporters.

It is now up to the managing
comraittee to arrange some means
of increasing the students’ support
of the team. And if a Dal skating
night is out of the question, a little
publicity could be had by the use
of the bulletin boards of the various
college buildings to advertize future
games. Dal’s lineup:

Goal, Vic Kyte; defence, D. Bent.
J. Carroll; forwards, E. Cohn, Stan
field, Godwin; spares: Crosby, Mullone, Begg, C. Cooke.

Hughie Gillis, former Wolverine
star, refereed to the satisfaction of

In the final period Tech opened both teams.

 

ARTS & SC. 11; MEDICINE 9

In the best game of the year Arts
and Science squeezed out a two run
margin from the Doctors. The winners showed a marked improvement
over the opening league game when
they fell before the Pine Hill team.

An early batting spree in the first
inning shot the Studley boys into
the lead with six runs. From then
on the Meds tightened up and held

_ the victors until the fourth, when

two more runners crossed the pan.
The Gaum-Fergusson battery, backed by good support, were playing
air-tight ball, holding Meds scoreless for four innings. Then came
the big inning for the Docs, who,
with a smashing rally, collected
seven runs, thus cutting the Arts
and Science lead of eight to a bare
lone run.

_ Arts and Science failed to score
in their half of the fifth. The Meds
tied the score in the first of the
sixth when Bob McLellan crossed
the home plate before his side was
retired, The-last of the sixth saw
Arts and Science fighting hard for
a win when in a short rally three
more runs were added to their credit.
Still in the game, Medicine could

SS
S$. —a_—————————
Ss

not overcome the three run lead, but
managed to cut it to two runs by
scoring a lone runner in their final
turn at bat in the seventh. Bruce
Fergusson was a big factor in his
team’s win. Besides playing well
behind the bat, he also collected
three runs for the Arts and Science
team.

Pine Hill Still Winning
Softball fans, who predicted a

close game between King’s and Pine
Hill, were fated to see the most one
 

sided game of the season. With
every man batting his best, the
Theologs literally swamped the

King’s team 37—3. McKenzie, winning hurler, took the pitching honors
with six scoreless innings. King’s
saved themselves from going scoreless with a seventh inning spurt
which netted a trio of tallies. Don
McLeod, Pine Hill catcher, took the
individual scoring lead with seven
runs to his credit. Three King’s
men had previously held this title
with six runs apiece. Using two
moundsmen—Allen Finlay and Joe
Willet—made little difference in the
King’s defense, as the Pine Hillers
scored at will.

 

    
  

Di

— WHERE COLLEGE MEN CONGREGATE ——

Flow About That
New Overcoat?

We have lots of them in all the latest
styles and colors.

count of 10% Allowed Dal Students.

 

 

Priced at

$19.50 $22.50 $25.” $30.

 

' NEW HATS — SCARVES — GLOVES and SPATS
At Our Usual Reasonable Prices.

Shane's Men’s Shop

Thirty Spring Garden Road

 

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

SPORT REVIEW

By ED STEWART

Ping pong, not long ago considered beneath the dignity
of a real athlete has made an astonishing increase in poplarity. A ping pong tournament is being arranged by Leo
Green, ping pong manager, and plenty of competition is expected. It is a pity that the city league organized last year
among the Halifax Y, Waegwoltic, and Dalhousie, and won
by Dal, is not in operation again this year, because there are
attending the university some of the best ping pong players
in the city. However, they will find plenty of stiff competition in the coming tournament.

From the results of the games in the softball schedule
to date it would seem that the league has developed into a
struggle between Medicine, Theology, and Arts, but since
many of the other faculties have strong teams any one of
them might upset the dope. In the game between Arts and
Medicine on Friday, January 11th, something of a record
was set for men on base by the Med team when Bobby MacLellan, Babe DuBilier, and Karl Green were all on base at
the same time, but it was the same base! Incidentally this
little mistake halted a rally and lost the game for them.

Dalhousie opens its 1935 campaign in the Intermediate
City League on Thursday, January 17th, at the Studley
Gym playing its first game against Tech. The Dal team,
though weakened by the loss of some of its last year’s stars,
is nevertheless strong enough to offer plenty of competition
to the best in the league.

It seems that Dalhousie cannot shake off the injury jinx
that dogged the football team throughout its entire season.
It has merely transferred its activities to the basketball
team. Oscar Serlin, star varsity guard, has been laid up indefinitely by a knee wrenched in practice. This is the third
serious injury since the opening of the basketball practices,
Mit Musgrave and Leo Green being the other casualties.

The interfaculty basketball league got underway last
Tuesday. From the interest shown in this sport much keen
competition is expected.

The Dal hockey team played its first game in the intercollegiate league last Monday evening. The team, though
weakened by the loss of Grant, Buckley, and Connor, has
been considerably strengthened by the addition of Mullane.

January 17, 1935

  

STUPENDOUS!
COLOSSAL!

CASINO

SAT., MON., TUES.

 
     
    

oe GIGANTIC!
SILVER STREAK” eet es :
with ae arnum’s own words

   

best describes the magnitude
of the screen biography of

Sally Blane
Charles Starrett
Hardy Albright

Special Extra
Paul & Jerome Dean
Dizzy and Daffy
Coming Soon
GRETA GARBO

—

“The Painted Veil”

Dal Boxing Candidates Get
Ready For Big Tournament

If the initial work-out of the candidates for the Dal
boxing team is any indication of what is to follow, this year’s
team should eclipse the famous St. F. X. boxing team of ’32
and °33 which brushed aside all opposition to take the eup

 
    

Mighty Barnum

as characterized by

Wallace Berry

Friday, Saturday, Monday

 
       
       
   

 

in successive years.

This year’s team will re represented
in every class from flyweight to heavyweight.

And since

most of the boys are veterans of the ring the Dal supporters need have no fear as regards to the showing the team

will make.

Lined up with the veteran Boyd
McGilvary, who will represent the
lightweights, we find his pal, Wink
Johnson heading the (flyweights.
Wink and Boyd are already famous
and need no introduction even to the
down-town fans, since they have already merited the distinction of being classed as fighters of the old
school.

The light-heavyweights are well
represented by Hymie Magonet,
Maritime champion, who last year
made the little birdies sing for the
rough and tumble Buck Meagher.
Hymie will get plenty of opposition
from Graven, who represented
King’s in last year’s fights, but has
joined the Dal boys this year.

Freddy Forrestal, former bantam
champ, and John Jarvie, last year’s
representative, will battle for supremacy in their division. Both boys
are Cape Bretoners, which indicates
the class is well taken care of.

In the middleweight division there

? is s é 2 : rhe
P. Stanfield and Carroll. The rumor to the effect that the |!8 57° te be @ battle royal when

hoekey team was going to be dishanded seems to have heen
just so much conversation.

Do Students Favor Change
In D. A. A. C. Constitution?

Writer Urges Caution.

 

Much is being said these days regarding the proposed
changing fo the D. A. A. C. constitution. Reform will at all
times be commended by ‘the progressive students of Dalhousie. But the reformers should remember that, despite
the numerous advocates of evolution, the Dal student is not
yet ready to be classed with the sheep that blindly follow a
leader to the stock-yard.

~—— —

The average student likes to see
the whys and wherefores of a project before he leaps. All of which
leads us to suggest that before asking the student body to authorize
their drawing up of a new constitution, it might be well to allow the
students to examine the old constition in the light of the proposed
changes.
retard the change for a few weeks,
the old constitution has stood for
over forty years, with but few
amendments, and would possibly
suffice during the two weeks it
would take to allow the students to
examine the constitution, and the
suggested constitution, which documents, for the benefit of the students, could be published in successive issues of the Gazette.

Up to the present, any students
with grievances against the D. A.
A. C. constitution were met with
tules of procedure by the various
executives of the D. A. A. C.; and
so it is with mingled feelings that
many will see the old bugbear of
the ex-senior team man wiped out.
We are informed that one of the
main questions to be considered in
relation to the change is that of
athletic awards.
that the major award, a gold “D”
given to the members of the senior
teams, loses half of its importance
by being held until graduation, and

Even though this might |

Many will agree,

should really be given when merited,
but there has never been any question as to the fitness of this award,
since it is well known that the College does not advertize by sending
teams over the province, and the
“D” is the only reward the players
get for the time lost and the risks
| undergone.

The matter of awards for the Intermediate teams and-the various
winners of Interfaculty sports should
be thoroughly thrashed out. Cloth
or felt awards for Dalhousie, a nonresidential college, are entirely inappropriate, since the sweaters and
college colors associated with residential colleges are unknown to the
average Dal student. Dal “letter
men” have had the right to wear a
felt “D”, but the importance they
attached to their privilege is shown
by the fact that the vast majority
of them never bother getting one.

It would be no answer for the
D. A. A. C. to say that they are
waiting for the students’ permission
to draw up a new constitution, for
the students will without hesitation
ratify anything which will work for
the general good of the student
body. But the plan can only be of
general accord if the student public
are given an opportunity to express
their opinions following the perusal
;of the proposed changes.

 

Harry Gaum and Jack Victor wipe
the grime off their faces and craw]

|through the ropes to decide which
lone of them will make the trip to

Fredericton.

Abe Becker’s two hundred and
thirty-five pounds appears to have
awed any others who had their eyes
on the heavyweight crown, but with
soe more coaching Abe will soon
make the trainer forget that he has
but one man in the division.

The welterweight division is
bound to be of more than ordinary
interest. Johnny Glorioso, the
present champion, dropped an extra
round decision to Vic Kyte two years
ago. The admirers of Glorioso have
always contended that the decision
was given to Kyte because of the
poor condition John was in. Vic’s
supporters on the other hand, say

not so; and while they admit the teams in a newly formed W

next fight between these two boys
is going to end differently, they
state the referee is going to display
his knowledge of elementary mathe
|matics over John’s tired body,

 

 

DENTISTRY TAKES GAME
IN INTERFACULTY LEAGUE

Coming out of a first period slump
the Dents surged into a comfortable
lead in the final period to overcome
Commerce in their first game in the
Interfaculty Basketball League.

Both teams showed lack of form
in the initial period, with the winners scoring only eight points, the
losers six. Dentistry found their
stride in the second period as they
collected 25 points and held the losers to a bare half dozen.

Leo Simmonds, Commerce, came
into play during the second frame
with high hopes of saving his team,
but found the Dents unbeatable. |
Don Saunderson was high man for
the losers, collecting seven of his
team’s dozen points.

 

 

“Let the Laundry do it”
81-85 West St. Garrick St.

Halifax Steam Laundry
Limited
Tel. L. 2300, L. 2309, L. 1618
Established 1877.

 

SS re ee eg ee _——~ = po
i 5 Se e

Eddie Arab, featherweight champion, will again represent his class
and is expected to assure at least
one title for Dal. The ability of
the popular boxing manager of the
boxing team is widely recognized
and he has yet to be extended by a
fighter in his own class.

While Eddie is more than pleased
with those turning out, he would
like to see more new comers. While
he may be hunting for sparring
partners for himself, he insists that
his blanket invitation is simply to
assure Dal of a continuous strong
representation which can only be
if others are ready to take the place
of the graduates.

Girls Meet to Fix
Basketball Rules

The annual meeting of the Girls’
Maritime Intercollegiate Basketball
League to arrange rules and schedules took place at Halifax, with representatives present from the three
competing universities—Acadia, Mt.
Allison and Dalhousie.

It was definitely decided to use
the Spalding Women’s rules as official for the league, with the pro
 

viso that teams were to use thethird playing area rule.
February 28th was set as _ the

opening date of the league, with
Acadia meeting the Dal Co-Eds at
Studley Gymnasium.

The following representatives were
present: Mt. A., Miss M. Sparling;
Acadia, Miss Nora Freeman; Dalhousie, Miss Kindle.
Flo Keniston, and
Dobson, Manager.

Coach, Miss
Miss Dorothy

 

GIRLS’ CITY LEAGUE

Dal Co-Eds

are also entering
omen’s
Halifax Y. W. and Dal are
to have two teams each with February 28th the opening date.
Spalding rules, as in the Intercollegiate League, are to be used.

League.

as

 

 

FRASER BROS.
TAXI

25c. Rate

On all Student eall.

B-6070

 

 

 

G.A McDonald

TOBACCONIST

 

Smokers’ Requisites of Every
Description.

A Complete Stock of
CIGARS, CIGARETTES,

TOBACCO & BRIAR PIPES.

21 Spring Garden Road
Halifax

 
