~'

rater tet anompanics which is being
are ape


 

Gt)

Official Student Publication

 

 

at Dalhousie University

 

 

VOL. LXV.

HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA, OCTOBER 18, 1934

No. 3

 

 

Engineers Find Field
In Gold Mining Room

By David MacLellan

An insight into the possibilities of the gold mining industry
in the province of Nova Scotia was recently given the writer by
John P. Messervey, deputy inspector of the Department of
Mines. “

According to the government official, the prospects are
that the gold output in the Atlantic province for the present
calendar year will be fully treble that of last year, with every
indication that in a very short period the gold industry will
again be a major factor in the employment and prosperity of
the province.

 

At present approximately five
hundred men are employed in the
work of prospecting and producing,

Injured Trio

Dal Library Receives
Many New Books

Many new books have found their way to the Library
shelves. The “Gazette” finds it impossible to carry a complete
list, but with the co-operation e” the Library staff, the following are submitted as having a wide and general interest:

Biography and Memoirs
Abercrombie, Ib... . 60.465; Thomas Hardy.

Hindenburg, Marshal von. Out of My Life.
Lloyd George, D.......... War Memories, Volume 3.

Big Debate in Gymnasium
On Tuesday Night

When the Furness-Withey liner Nova Scotia docks at Halifax this Monday, two English university students will disembark. They are Robertson Crichton of Oxford and Leslie T.
Jackson of Cambridge, debaters brought here by the National
Council of University Students to match wits Tuesday night
with J. Harrison Cleveland and Dougall H. Sutherland, best of
Sodales, on the question: “Resolved that this house deplores
the rise of Fascism.”

 

 

30th visitors are past masters in

including almost all of the experienced gold miners of Nova Scotia.
A large number of the engineering
graduates of the local colleges have
been taken on, and it is indicated
that in a short time all the mining
engineers graduating in the seaboard region will be absorbed along
with a good part of the electrical
and mechanical engineers, since Mr.
Messervey believes that there can be
little doubt that the record output
of 31,112 ounces in 1889 will be
equalled before long, with the probability that at least two thousand
men will be engaged in the work,
supporting about ten thousand dependents, and creating a gratifying
circulation of money, and giving a
new impetus to the firms supplying
mining equipment, such as machinery and rails. At present a good
profit is being realized by the inter
up in furthering the work.

_ The capital has been principally
supplied by upper Canadian, English, American, and South African
companies. Seven companies are
now producing steadily, with the
certainty that before the end of the
year two more will be in a similar
position.

At Moose River, Halifax County,
Messrs. Lawlor and Higgins, working as partners, have already this
year produced an amount equal to
the total of the output of 1933, in
the vicinity of 1,000 ounces. The
Montague Gold Mines have produced
an amount approximately the same,
and it is assured that the total output of all companies for the present
calendar year will be over 3,000.

In the Caribou Gold District all
the properties have recently been
handed over for operations to a
large mining corporation which has
alreadyg ot to work on underground
investigations. The Montague Gold
Mines are carrying on extensive operations down to the four hundred
foot level, the milling plant having
been in constant operation for the
past five months. At Oldham, Lawrencetown, and the Waverly gold
areas considerable prospecting is
being carried on.

Activity in the Guysboro County
districts is very gratifying, many
of the companies having installed
new equipment, and are unwatering
old works in several localities, The
Lunenburg, Queens, and Hants
counties regions-show marked increase in activity.

At Indian Path, Lunenburg Co.,
the Indian Path Mining, Limited is
carrying on _ investigations into
the tungsten deposits. The prospects
here are very promising. Mr. Messervey states that the conditions
here are regarded as most unusual,
as the tungsten is mixed in with
gold, something new to experts.

In a general comment on the industry, the official states that the
number of developments have increased considerably, old ones increasing in themselves, and new

.ones showing extraordinary growth

and activity. The department is
taking a keen interest in all operations, receiving daily reports on the
work completed. f

 

a

Doing Well

Dalhousie’s athletes, injured in
the football game last Saturday
against the Wanderers, are all far
along the road to recovery.

Vie Kyte, his leg still swathed in
bandages, was removed from _hospital Tuesday afternoon. Suffering
from torn ligaments when his leg
was bent backwards, Vic was rushed to hospital immediately after the
game Saturday. There it was learned he would never be able to play
football again. However, he’ll soon
be hobbling around the campus on
a weapon he calls a cane.

Ted Crease, who seemed to be
most seriously injured at the time,
is in better shape than any of the
other injured today. Ted suffered
a slight concussion in the intermediate tilt Saturday, but that
aidn’t stop him from playing bridge
with pals sitting around his hospital
bed next day.

Bob MacLellan, last of Dalhousie’s
injured trio, who had his shoulder
wrenched, was up and about next
day, his arm in a sling but otherwise unscarred. Now he is more
jaunty than ever—his sling is gone
and a bowler hat has taken its
place.

Henry Ross, who sprained an
ankle during an early practice session this year, seems about ready
to take his place on the field. He
will probably fill Kyte’s shoes this
Saturday when Dal meets Acadia.

 

 

 

Freshmen Hear

LectureonLibrary

donald Memorial Library, Class ’38

Gathered in the beautiful Macstudents were initiated on Thursday
last by Professor C. L. Bennet into
the uses of the Library, which are
indeed multifold. The speaker, who
is Chairman of the Library Committee, explained in his own inimitable manner what treasures are in
store for those freshmen who
choose to test the words of Carlyle
to the effect that a library is a university in itself.

Books, according to the professor,
are immensely valuable sources of
information to be found nowhere
else. The Macdonald Library, whilst
not large, can certainly keep the
whole Freshman Class well occupied
with worthwhile reading during
their entire attendance at Dalhousie.

He had little feeling but pity for
the student who boasted that during his course at Dalhousie he had
crossed the portals of the Library
but once—to get a “Gazette”. He
endeavoured to point out the error
of preceding freshmen in falling into certain unfortunate habits, ones
unworthy of imitation.

Gordon Thompson was the Chairman.

 

 

FOOTBALL

Dalhousie University
vs.

Acadia University

Seniors and Intermediates
Studley, Saturday Afternoo

 

OOS. Cr Pl ee cle lek Geoffrey Chaucer.
ERT Le) tol Se a a can ig W. H. Davies.
ROMA GS BG. bc os tence os .. Beethoven the Creator.

RIED Wie kik ob occ eek Robert Browning.

Spender & Asquith...... Life of Lord Oxford and Asquith.
Weventine BY i Nt Stresemann.

WP RUREE Wa Beco s tc dae we: Memoirs of Sir George Foster.

Economics and Government

PRT PT a. es ce oi ee | Essays in Political Economy.
BIA VICR, PNG? bei Gs ciate Problem of the Twentieth Century.
METH ee 5 os as Boe ee Economic Foundations of Fascism.
Weacemome oe eh Lectures on Political Economy.

English Literature
OMT Rr es ek boy ae Five Pre-Shakespearian Comedies.
CARDIO Ey Ed seb cw 8c vy elisha 4 Adamastor Poems.
Campbell, R. ............Flaming Terrapin.
UVM aDeay Ss ae he ola ak English Poetry in the Later 19th Century.
Rieti 2 Arte ct os Otherworld.

Kennedyy Mss oe is lec ec The Constant Nymph.
Renriod ya My hl. isa wees Ladies of Lyndon.
Lawrence, D. H........ ....New Poems.

Byars) Her er ae ates ex Essays of Y. Y.
DEGR I Ae ol otis ise 0d Recent Poetry.

Sandburg, C.

ee Smoke and Steel.

es Oa tl Sag, Prefaces.
GWE By edie das vow den ss Collected Poems.
WV EIEN Beat Bess 6 sau stwceln's ae Spokesmen.

Williams, H.

Pmishaca a Boer Some Great English Novels.

English Translations from Russian Authors

PUR BOOM Sas 2 Outs ise a ek o's A Russian Gentleman.
Aksakoff, S. ..............A Russian Schoolboy.
PROM SS os * Toss ches Years of Childhood.

Dostoevsky, F. ........ _...Works.
ROO Mig Aan sew sie» ad ate Dead Souls.
PeUrOl se isms oe nabs te: Tarus Bulba.
OO Foi te eas oe Works.
BEDOUIN PES cade dc fda vind Works

Geography and Travel
EAU SCONG. Eis FI Se ke ale oes Face of Scotland.
Cores, WG, CWS bea Me lar tbs o8 Zigzags in France.
MOxton Te Wise bod ool Works
ROtnery Mi. DayG..ob5 pale Sweden.
Trevelyan; K. G.......5..4 Unharboured Heathsk.

History

DOVEVAIA, AS ie C5) e: die ere ais Pavements and Peaks.
Ra Ks be Did hos pels aiGih er ay f Old Province of Quebec.
atanty, Wo. 2. i venescad'as Duranty Reports Russia.
ON Ns ng Date aad tie vies Russsia Today: What Can We Learn From It?
VENI os SB etc Wiatiiegih & Sri srs King Charles I.

Hamilton, C.

Santa ge Sate 6 ate Modern Russia.

BRUTE ie i Gatenaiele ated Great Offensive.

Macartney, C. A..... 062.35 Social Revolution in Austria.
| Macdonell, Be eS! he Napoleon and His Marshals.
CES CG Ae ee eae Past Masters.

10 56.,.¢ 14) 6 2 6 6.50.16

Riddell, Lord

Intimate Diary of the Peace Conference and

| After, 1918-23.

| Roeder, R.

iw ces oeeves os an. Of the Renaissance.

emeveivan, Go Miva. oh ..5)2: England under Queen Anne, Volume 3.

 

Professor Curtis

Addresses Club

 

Professor George F. Curtis, of the
Dalhousie Law School, graduate c’
the University of Saskatche-2n
and of Oxford University, Rhodes
Scholar, and well known lawver
was the special speaker at the open
ing meeting of the Effective Spcak
ing and Parliamentary Procecu~
Club on Wednesday, October 10.

Prof. Curtis discussed the velue,
place, and importance of effective
speaking in the world of today. He
stated that ability to speak is of
immense importance in connection
with public responsibilities and in
the relations of employers and employees. Speaking ability is a decided asset for advancement in the
industrial world. Nowadays there
is a tendency to get away from the
embellishments, the’ flowery  epigrams, and the rounded periceds
which were in vogue even so short
a time ago as the age of Gladstone.
The incisiveness and unornatenegs of

‘important of
\factor of practice.

 

 

resulted in a gain, the speaker de
clared, This trend in modern
speech has brought about greater
relevancy.

Confidence on the part of the
speaker was declared to be a requisite to effective speaking. For formal speech a certain amount of
tension is of much benefit. Most
all, however, is the
This is the main
requirement in developing one’s
ability for speaking.

Following Prof. Curtis’ address,
plans for the year were discussed.
Among those who offered suggestions and who took part in the ensuing discussion were Messrs. Art
Meagher, Art Thurlow, Eric Murray, Wilkie Grant, Harrison Cleveland, Ronald Copp, Bernard Andrews, I. Mercer, Wilfred Burchell,
Bill Armstrong, and David Redmond,

Several new members were added
to the Club’s enrollment at this
meeting, and, if this first meeting
may be used as a criterion, the
Speaking Club will have a highly

 

Substantial Decreese
In Registration Noted

 

Two weeks ago, through the medium of these columns, the registra
the art of speaking, having held important executive positions on the
Oxford and Cambridge Unions. The
subject chosen should prove interesting and bring out some vital
points in regard to. the way Musso
lini handles Italy.

By this debate, Sodales expects
to revive interest in debating, which
has lagged at Dalhousie for some
years now. All students will be admitted on presentation of the Students’ Council card, and officials of
the society declare listeners-in will
get an earful.

 

tion of the professional schools wa:
shown to be decreased slightly,when
compared with 1933-34, but it was
hoped that this slight decrease
would be more than made up. by the
increased registration in Arts and
Science. This, however, has not
been the case, and the recent report
given out by President Stanley to
the “Gazette” explains the situation
cabins ERG PenOre M8 (ae 50) peanuts for Tuesday night and bring

“Registration at Dalhousie is now ere along with you to the gym at
practically complete, and shows 2 8 o’clock for the big debate of the
diminished attendance in nearly all|¥°27- Our men have not the experidepartments. Except in Dentistry, |°°° of the debaters from the Old
there is a decrease in the profes- Country but will give them a good

sional schools, and the total number |*2of professional students is less than
last year. There is a decrease in
the total number of women students,
in the students registered at King’s
College, and in all departments of
the Faculty of Arts and Science. The
total enrolment will probably show
a decrease of about 80 as compared
with last year.

For this decrease, there are several contributing causes: first and
foremost being the general financial
depression; again, there is the rapid
growth of attendance in Grade XT”
in Nova Scotia high schools. Many
high schools, for example Parrsboro
and Canso, which probably did not
provide Grade XII, have recently
done so. And in other places the
attendance in Grade XII has
enormously increased. This means
that scores of students register in
college a year later than they formerly did.

Another cause, though this is perhaps less potent than was _ anticipated, is that Dalhousie University

So then, Dalhousie, save up the

   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
  
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
  
  

 

Frosh Plan
First Party

 

At noon on Tuesday the Freshman Class was again treated to
“one of Fisher’s speeches” in the
Chem. Theatre. However, the
freshman representative proved very
interesting, having several plans
for approaching activities to divulge.

An announcement that the class
is to have a dance all its own in
the near future brought forth much
applause and. many suggestions
The Freshman Committee of ten
met later and agreed on _ several
vital points in regard to the affair,
and in the long run it turned out
that the dance will be held from 9
to 1 o’clock on Hallowe’en. Just
where is yet a question, which is in
the hands of a committee of three—

during the last three years has| Billie Oxley, Phil Dumaresq, and
gradually come to insist on ful]| Ron Hiseler. Another committee,
matriculation for entrance. Dal-|0ne of three ladies, was deputed to

look into the matter of refreshments. These ladies are Sheila
Stewart, Kay Finlayson, and Lou
Morrison. Ruth Weigand and Roland Hurst will secure the orchestra.

housie University has not heightened matriculation standards, as is
sometimes alleged. But it has, after repeated requests from individual schools and on the suggestion

made by the Education Departments A number of the boys indicated

of the three Maritime Provinces,| their intention of trying for the
agreed to Insist honestly on the/ Freshman Rugby squad, electing
standard which for many years has Maurice Lipton manager of the

existed.

One happy result of the new arrangement is that the “elementary”
classes in various subjects have
been almost abolished. For many
years, Dalhousie conducted special
classes in languages, science and
mathematics, which covered work
done in the high schools. Dalhousie
professors are now freed from
these tasks to do their own proper
work.”

team. It is expected that the ’38
team will be a strong contestant for
honours in future competition.

A collection was taken up for the
Community Chest, which resulted in
a goodly contribution toward an excellent cause.

Med Will
Hold Smoker

Cn Thursday evening, Oct. 18th,
at 7.30, the Students’ Medical Socity of Dalhousie University is holding a Smoker in the Public Health
Clinic.

 

SUBSCRIBERS
Because of the need to keep
expenses at a minimum, henceforth the “Gazette” will be
mailed to only those subscribers

who are not in arrears.

successful year. The next meeting
will be held on or about the twentyfourth of October.

An outline of the origin, object,
aims, and membership of the Club
was given by the President, who
also welcomed Prof. Curtis to Dalhousie.

A short business meeting will be
held first which will be followed by
addresses by Dr. H. G. Grant, Dr.
J. W. Merritt and Dr. R. P. Smith.

This is the first of a series of
such meetings that the Society are
planning to hold this year, and all
Med students are urged to attend.

 
   
 
  
  
 
 
    
  
  
 
    
    
   
    
  
  
   
 
 
   
  
     
  
      
    

 

F. E. GOUDGE
B. 6295

pj News Editor
| ARTHUR MERKEL
~ -B,5108

Literary Editor
AL REID
B. 5827
Sports Editor
BILL DAVIS
B. 4884
Assistant

ARTHUR MEAGHER
B. 2886

es - Business Manager
ons M.D. WALLACE, ROWLINGS

4 < :
COMPULSORY PHYSICAL TRAINING

After being advocated for several years by some members
sof -the faculty and by many students, compulsory physical
training for freshmen will be tried out at Dalhousie this year.
~~ Those who champion this move argue its many advantages.
------«* Freshmen, coming here from high school, are often unac-_ quainted with gymnasiums and group sports. A compulsory
~~‘ training insists upon their acquiring a knowledge of the usefulness of the gym. Freshmen coming in as a class are less
liable, sponsors claim, to be as timid and shy as when they are
jearning something new in front of older and usually more expert seniors. Freshmen with minor ailments or with undeveloped bodies will be given a chance to correct them. Finally,
every other college has it and why should Dalhousie lag?
The editors of the Gazette are opposed to a change. The
move is another instance of the modern tendency to make
others do as you want them to do; it is a restraint of liberty.
~~ Admitting that freshmen need exercise, the next question is,
——s« **Do not the seniors need exercise, too?” It is probable the
a average student in the professional schools is far more in need
of exercise than freshmen who have spent their summers on
the sea-shores instead of dusty offices. We are informed there
are students in Law and Medicine who have only a two-inch
_ chest expansion! And if these men, many of whom have come
from colleges with compulsory training for freshmen, lack injtiative to use the gym, is it not true that they, too, for their
own benefit, should be compelled to attend athletic classes?
_-——s-' The very fact the training is to be compulsory is repellant.
e gymnasium cannot attract freshmen (which we deny),
ult must be with it and not them. Freshmen, being
er, tend to be more gregarious than do older students.
it should be possible to draw them to the gymnasium

ee eS eee

+t _—

    
    
  
 
  
   
  
  
   
     
       

 
   
 

 
 

| vn accord. Supposing a few do not make use of it,
- must they be dragged there? Will there never come a time in
their life when they cannot be trusted to think and act for
themselves? Will the university deny them the opportunity to
form a character? Pits

_ .-_'The farcial aspect of the matter is its enforcement. Fresh= men will not be driven to setting up exercises, provided they

=

  

sign themselves as intending to play badminton, basketball,
athletic dancing, or other sports. How will it be possible to
-—_. eheck up on the playing hours of every freshman at badmin_ ton, for instance,—may they take an average for the year, or
- ~~ -‘ must ‘they get in, say three hours a week? When anything
---_——so ig: made compulsory, human tendency is not to submit but to
é: escape. The new plan, as far as freshmen are concerned, is to
. make the gymnasium a school-room instead of a playground.
In fun, we suggest Dr. Bagnall advocate compulsory gum
chewing to protect growing wisdom teeth, and that the Un
versity distribute free apples every day.

FACING THE MUSIC

oocide There is a considerable lack of appreciation of good music
is at Dalhousie. Whether this is due to the absence of oppor4 tunities to hear the great masterpieces or simply because of
Pe an indifferent attitude on the part of the students it is difficult
ah” to determine. We suggest the former to be the major incumee bent. cause.
ta While the gymnasium was still merely a project of the
ee. artist’s pen, it was believed that on completion it would serve
et as a music hall, making available facilities for the presentation
ie. . of musical concerts, particularly for the student body. To some
Ca measure this has been done. But when we compare the apoa portunities of our Maritime contemporaries for enjoying good
a music with those of Dalhousie, we are amazed. Acadia Unie- __ ‘versity is most fortunate in being able to present to the stu
dents concerts at regular intervals, featuring internationally
aoe known artists. Mount Allison likewise gives its students ample
seope for musical appreciation in a novel way. The latter pro
vides a room where a set of first-class gramaphone records are
eas. at the disposal of the students. Here with the aid of a modern
___ orthophonic the works of the great masters may be enjoyed
at leisure. Dalhousie might do well to adopt such a praise
a worthy method. It doubtless would have beneficial results.
_—~—s The present condition at Dalhousie bids fair to be rectified
somewhat, however. In the absence of any University-spon~~ gored musical concert, city musical organizations have allotted

special reduced prices for students so that they may enjoy the
_ facilities these organizations offer to hear good music. This

condition though worthy of praise, is hardly what it should
be. The student who enjoys good music is forced to go elsewhere than to the University which should satisfy his needs.
In stating the above we do not mean to cast any aspersions
-__- upon the various musical groups already on the campus, such
as the Choral Society. These organizations are most certainlv
____ doing all they can to awaken the student to the appreciation of
better music. But these small groups seldom attain a high
standard. The undergraduates should have nothing but the
‘best of music to enjoy. As Nietche once said, “Life without
_ good music is a mistake”. Likewise an education void of music

 
   
  

om

 

“The Moving Finger writes,
having writ, moves on.”
Omar Khayyam.

and,

Freshman Athletic Regulation.

Last week the powers that be issued an ordinance which compelled
all first-year students to take part
in some form of athletics. Each
was required to specify to the
physical instructor the particular
form of exercise which was most
attractive or least offensive to him.
Some students protested that this
regulation is but another case of official interference with their private
lives, comparable with compulsory
physical examination and Students’
Council fees.

This is surely a mistaken attitude.
The student, in order to attain and
retain a decent academic standing,
must be physically fit; thus participation in athletics may be a field
where Senate interference is justifiable. The freshman, being relatively so immature (as is also many
an upperclassman), is only too
likely to regulate unwisely his private life in this respect. On thin
ground a strong case may be put
forward for applying this regulation to all students. We can, however, perhaps safely assume that
the rulers of our fates hope that
the new regulation will instill good
habits in our young hopefuls and
make unnecessary a wider application of it in the future.

This new rule may also put a
measure of new life in College athletics, particularly in interfaculty
sport, and, despite the slight taint
of compulsion, make life a bit more
satisfactory for all.

 

The First Glee Club Show.

It was in most respects a great
success. The present writer, however, is doubtful of the wisdom of
departing from the time-honoured
practice in giving so little time to
introducing the freshman to our
college songs, thus depriving him
of an experience that most newcomers of former years found unforgettable. An opportunity was missed of making the freshman and upperclassman as well more aware of
the existence of the living Dalhousie,
and of developing a more vigorous
college spirit.

 

Studies

“Abenut studia in mores”
those who are so inclined we translate: “‘studies develop into manners.” This is truly so. Studies
take a threefold place in our college
iives—they serve for delight, for
ornament, and for ability. For delight in privateness; for ornament
in discourse; and for ability in
judgment of the ways of mankind.
Thus has each its own peculiar
manifestation. We recall Bacon’s
wisdom: “To spend too much time
in studies is sloth; to use them too
much for ornament is affectation;
to make judgment wholly by their
rules is the humour of a scholar.”

When reading, weigh and consider
things carefully. Above all do not
take everything for granted. Choose
carefully just what you do read
outside of your assigned readings,
for you have not the time to waste.
Dalhousie is very fortunate in having at hand an abundance of suitable reading material through the
medium of the Library, the Dalhousie Book Club, and the Everyman’s Library that is to be found
in the Book Store. Probably you
will discover that books once read
should now only be tasted and vice
versa. To acquire this habit is one
of the chief aims of an education.

“Reading maketh a full man;
conference a ready man; and writing an exact man.” Students of
Dalhousie, take this to heart, for
reason never has failed man. We
repeat, “Abeunt studia in mores.”

RECITAL IN GYM.

One of the outstanding musical
events of the season will be the
recital to be given by Benno Moiseiwitsch, world famous pianist, in the
Dalhousie Gymnasium next Thursday evening, Oct. 25th, at 8.15 p.m.

Upon presentation of D. A. A. C.
cards at the University offices—
Studley or Forrest Building—students of the University may secure

| tickets for eighty-five cents.

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

  
    

| To Think About

—=208 |

:

(like the N. R. A.

 

 
 

Gazette
Book Review

Those who have read “British
Agent” will be pleased to know that
the Lockhart has just completed the
sequel to that very instructive and
fascinating work.

In “Retreat From Glory” Bruce
Lockhart writes of what has followed since his Russian adventures so
admirably described in “British
Agent.” As one already knows Mr.
Lockhart’s career as a diplomat was
not very successful, nor were his
well meant efforts, appreciated by
the British Foreign Office. In his
new book Mr. Lockhart portrays a
true picture of political affairs in
Europe, but he does this in a most
intriguing fashion, he draws a parallelism between his own life and
the life of Europe, but it is only
after one has taken time for reflection that the finely woven camouflage is blown aside and the reader

realizes that he has seen not only an)

intriguing picture of a life full of
opportunities, but also a realistic
picture of political and economic
events in Europe as they evolve
chronologically after the war.

His post-war career centres in
Eastern Europe, where he was sent

in the capacity of Commercial Dip- |

lomatiec Secretary at Prague. His

thoughts of accenod are refiected to |

a certain extent in his comments on

his elegant superior, Sir Geo. Clerk, |
head of the British delegation to|

Czechoslovakia.

Mr. Lockhart did not become a
minister, he does, however, reveal
sidelights, on Benes, Masaryk, and
other well known Czech leaders. But
the most forceful pictures are the attempts of the great economists and
politicians to evolve a system whereby equilibrium can once more be restored in post-war Central Europe.

His next venture was banking,
which like most banking ventures
of the time failed. As a last resort
Mr. Lockhart turns to journalism
which seems to be his natural occupation.

-“Retreat From Glory” deserves
criticism as well as praise. Mr.
Lockhart is again very egotistical
and the intimate stories of his life,
which in many cases are not the
nicest and deserve derision rather
than praise.

 

  

Something

 

“The most significant test of
the education of a people is to be
found in the way they spend their
leisure time. We wonder what the
result would be if this criterion
were applied to Dalhousie.

 

A recent statute passed by
the Legislature of Rumania enacts
that in order to grow a beard in
that country one must secure an official permit which must be paid
for. Just another example of razorblade propaganda.

 

If each Dalhousie
tributed the admission price of a
theatre ticket to the

proximately $250.00 more for this
worthy cause. Who is going to be

 

the first?

Lockhart’s new book, “Retreat
from Glory,’ promises to _ be
equally as interesting as “British
Agent”. The story is worth read
ing for its own sake, for it reveals |

an attitude and a character.

 

To-day Jugo-1Slavia celebrates

the advent to the throne of its 11year-old monarch. Yesterday it
mourned the death of its beloved
monarch who was so ruthlessly assassinated. Probably the monarch
who offered his kingdom for a horse
had good reason to do so.

 

A Central Bank — expansion of
currency—new attempts to aid
western farmers, and numerous
other radical changes all point towords a new deal in Canada not unin the United
States. The difference in result
does credit to Canadians.

 

They say halitosis is better than
no breath at all.

student con
Community |
Chest this week, it would mean ap-|

(on points

 

 

 

      

 
 

Stereotypes
of Students

THE LAW STUDENT.

A smart chap is the Law student,
so he reports. The Law student believes himself the clearest thinking
student on the campus. He looks
down on Arts students—high school
stuff, just listen and memorize and
they will give you a B.A., he says,
while in Law you are trained to use
your wits. It is his pride to get to
the core of any matter by clear
thinking and logical arrangement of
the “facts”. The greatest problem
is but a knot of “facts” to a lawyer
and how he loves .to unravel them.

The Law student, in general, is
not much of a nuisance; he does not
bother the rest of the world until
he graduates. But at any meeting,
the Law student is a menace to harmonious progress. Everything must
be done strictly according to the
letter of the rule—and when the
rule is no-rule, he makes a rule of
that. No detail is too small or
humble to be without the rule:
“What’s worth doing is worth doing right” is the motto of every
lawyer. Consequently, he pops up
of order wherever students meet, delaying the issue under
discussion to settle the irrelevant
matters of how it shall be discussed.

Whenever Law students meet in
convention, three-quarters of the

 

time is devoted to drawing up a
constitution, the rest upon the reason the convention was called. Law
students are not popular at meetings.

Law students love to argue, but
they insist upon arguing their own
way. Wherever possible, they use
their own jargon to confuse their
opponent. “It is submitted” is a!
phrase they use to cover up a
statement they think may be car-|
rect and which they know will help |
their side. Law students have a pe- |
culiar method of argument—it is |
impossible to describe but it is very |
noticeable. They greatly dislike ar-|
guments which had to do with phil- |
osophy or anything of a similarly |
intangible nature—give them a case
with “facts” anytime.

The Dalhousie Law student is a
particularly proud chap. Every day |

October 18, 1934

he sits in class gazing at the whiskered pictures of the now great men
who administer and adjudicate for
this country in its present sorry
condition (they are also said to
have done their share in getting it
that way). The Law student sighs
and wishes for time to pass—for he
is sure he will make good in politics and retire as a judge. In the
meantime he sits through his lectures, tortured by foul air and, as
the lecturer’s voice drones through
many cases and “facts”, by a desire to sleep which is frustrated by
the hardness of the benches (built
before R. B. Bennett’s time and designed to be hard—no wonder he’s
Prime Minister now). He - sometimes spends a quiet hour carving
his initials in the benches, a favourite indoor sport and said to be a
pre-requisite to a Rhodes scholarship.

 

FROSH SHOW SLATED
FOR NOVEMBER 2nd

All aboard for the Freshies Frolic
and Show on November 2. The date
of the forthcoming especial event
event in the history of the Glee Club
was announced yesterday and frantic practising is now the order of
the early evenings.

The play is gathering speed while
the feature numbers will surprise
even those stolid seniors who have
been seeing Freshmen shows for
years. Joe Connolly is doing a good
job of getting things working
smoothly and there’ll be a treat in
store for you on the night you see
the Freshies go through their antics. Believe it or not.

COMMUNITY CONCERT
SEEKS NEW MEMBERS

According to an announcement of
the Halifax Community Concert Association, students at Dalhousie and
affiliated colleges may renew their
membership cards anytime during
the weekbeginning October 22.

This a special arrangement
made for students, as other members renewed last spring. The association, by making possible delayed joining for students, hopes to
enroll all former members and new
ones,

Attention of the studentsis directed to the Association’s advertisemen elsewhere in the “Gazette”,
which outlines this year’s program.

is

 

The October Issue is Now

 

 

Dalhousie Students

Should Read that famous publication

The Dalhousie Review

on Sale at The Book Shop

Gymnasium Building

 

 

The

Are Here

Now’s the time to ch

Big, burly Coats with

Smooth, dark cloths i

 

EXTRA

30 Spring G

 

SEE SHANE’S DISPLAY OF WINTER OVERC

 

VV interOvercoats |

the stock of styles and colors is still complete.

We are showing a beautiful range of colors and
styles, particularly suitable for College men.

for the football and hockey games.

more formal occasions. |

Also a large assortment of HATS, SCARVE
GLOVES, SPATS, SHIRTS and NECKWEAR

We have just opened a shipment of Dalhousie Blazers—

in pure wool English flannel—black with yellow
cord trim.

 

Shane's Men’s Sho

OATS

 

Oe

oose your Overcoat—while

all round belts, just right

n closer fitting models for

S;

 

arden Road

 

Discount of 10 Per Cent Allowed Dathousie Students

 

 

 
 

     

Mar.

Pot ?= > Che Walitee
| Community Concert Hssoctation

STUDENTS’ MEMBERSHIP WEEK
OCTOBER 22nd — 27th

 

 

Membership List, which is open to bona fide students only,
closes positively on the 27th. No further opportunity to join.
Dates of Concerts and Artists Engaged for 1934-35 Season:

Noy. 28th. TOSCHA SEIDEL—Concert Violinist.
Feb. 18th. CAROLA GOYA—Classical Dancer
(with Harpist),

5th—_- GRACE LESLIE—Contralto
(with Philharmonic Chorus and Orchestra)

i Apr. 30th. FREDERICK JAGEL—Metropolitan Tenor.

 

Student Membership, $3.00. Headquarters: Willis Piano Co., Ltd.

 

 

 

    
 
  
  
 

e CHAPTER III
i 1. And it came to pass that
there arose in the Lande of Dal a

_ _ Skribbler—yes, a Kritik of the Med, voice waxed
and in the Gaz-zette he told tales| When it ceased it was recognized as

of _the existence of the Dhoktors,
eB and yea verily thruout a page he
| panned severely the Med, but for
a
~~ us—it has never been so before.

2. Now the denizens of Med are
a cunning tribe, but how they fear
_ the mighty Vhithamin known as the
-  Queez. But, behold, Downee, surnamed Mayenland the Lean, is wise
--~—s in‘ the ways of the worlde—and to
make the Med’s ambition rise he
aes pours forth plentiful queezes; and
in his fatal Little Book—coloured
- plaeck because in it hangs the fate
of the Med—he marks the worth of
each stude. Before each queez the
- Meds burn the midnight oil, and utter vile ‘phrases praising the lot of
| the Dole their noble ae

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

a ‘The Fourth Book of Bunk

words make me desire to talk, although I speak without preparation.” Thus for some minutes the
eloquent, and then

Suetherlande the Fair from Cap
Brett—not from the county of the
Skotch. Benyett the Supreme Judge

soothe those who work on the stiffe| liked such eloquence, and lo here
and chloroform the Khat cried he is| was found the Second Mhan to bat
a goode kritik; he tells the truth of tle for the Honour of Zhodalees—
for Cleave Land—the one who gasps

“suh”—and who lives on the Isle of
the Nuts, was the other. Once
again, in the battle of the wits,
warriors from the Lande of Law
will protect Dal.

5. On the Grid the warriors who
use Stahmeena and Mussel fared
not so well. The children of Dal
hie themselves in vast numbers unto the Bleechers to sight the mighty
Mhen scramble with those who
Whander. They are led by Rhande
the Shouter—and they spout “fight
fight!” And the fierce warriors
Beet with all . might, but

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

|\DEPARTMENT OF EROTICS

Boy-O-Boy and Girl-O-Girl, what useless for Erotics 2—yes, indeed!

a registration! Never before in the
history of Dalousy have so many
registered for an Honor course in
one Department. From every class
they came. Frosh and FreshieSophs registered by the score for
Erotics L, our Methods of Meeting
course. Most of the Sophomore applicants were able to receive credit
for Erotics 1 and Erotics 2 (Principles of Parking) by writing Supps
and presenting dairy entries for
proof of Lab. work. But not one
applicant, a few affiliated Theologs
excepted, were able to pass the
Supps for Erotics 3, 4, 5—The Arts
of Osculation, Pick-Ups and their
Treatment, The Pitfall of Marriage
and How to Avoid It, respectively.

It will no doube be very pleasing
to Mr. Shearer, the founder of the
Department, to see this great registration. The popularity is deserved and Mr. Shearer is justified
in feeling that his great ambition,
a thorough training in Erotics for
every student, is to be finally and
very definitely realized.

Prof. Atwood, B.S. (Bachelor
Storekeeper), our Librarian, complains of a slight conjunctivitis and
writer’s cramp from making out
bills for the new text-books which
have arrived from France. All of
which is very gratifying.

Come one, all you would-be-irresistibelles who wish to develop the
effect of that come-hither glance (or
“bedroom-eye”, to be modern).
Come on, all you would-be smoothies who wish to acquire a trousercreaseraser. Come on, all of you
who wish to develop your sexexpression and poisonality. Join the everswelling procesh leading to the Office of Miss Dixie Dott, Registrar
of the Department of Erotics.

Erotically yours,
WADD A. MANN, D. Ero.

Helpfully yours,
DIXIE DOTT.

 

A Frantic Senior writes that her
Tarzan showed up on Saturday
night with a very noticeable beard.
Does that mean that he has ceased
to care?

No, my poor child, it only means
that the lazy bum needs a shave.

And now, good-bye till next
week. Erotically yours, too.

DIXIE DOTT.

The Students’

Forum

 

To the Editor:

Dear Sir,—I wish to submit to
you the following data on the C. O.
TT. ©.

If the turnout at the first parade
of the C. O. T. C. held on Monday
night is any indication, “Little Edinburgh” is diverting from the old
old Scottish custom of getting something for nothing.

This something as embodied in the
C. O. T. C. takes three forms, mental, physical and monetary. The
nothing is time—for has not Caryle
said that time is but a figment of
the imagination?

The average student seems to
think that the O. T. C. is a subject
of Gingoism,—nothing could be further from the truth. The aim of
this organization is primarily a pacific one, inasmuch as its members
through a close association with the
more rudimentary arts, begin to
realize the horrors of war and all it
stands for; receiving at the same
time a most thorough training in
those qualities of leadership, so essential in civil life.

Bearing in mind that a misconception of the purpose of this unit

And now for a few answers to, seems to be prevalent on the camqueries and problems submitted to pus, a brief resumé of its origin and

the Registrar.
man writes:

Dear Miss Dott:

A perplexed Fresh-| work seems to be called for.

At the beginning of this century
the O. T. C. was established at all

   
        
     
      
          
            
         
       
 
    
       
         
       
     
       
    
     
       
       
         

| Henry Birks & Sons

  

of Path, Jond of Ahtlan the Detec- hectic a Brion chartelege and
tive, who is wise in the Art of Life|too had to be placed in the handes |
and whom “The Worried Studes”| of the Med. But such is the life of |
ask many questions which are an-|a warrior of the Grit—and the chilswered with such Mumour and Wis-/dren of Dal wisheth their heroes

dom that the Meds speak of them | Godspeed.

for many moons. 6. Now it came to pass that
4, Now unto the Lande of Zho-| once again the Council of the Studes
dalees the mighty Ciceros of Dal} proclaimed—with signs which hardgather together to choose the best|ly could be real—that all the Studes |
to battle wits with staunch orators] should dance at their expense; and
from Oxford. Many spouted loud! many gathered in the Geem expecand long—and the judges liked|tant of the usual Geem Bump,
them none too much. After all had|with the large sthags—but, lo, it
seemingly ceased, a voice arose|was not to be such—for there were
from a far corner of the Mhunroh| no bumps and only few sthags. Ice
Room, “These speakers know naught cream flowed in abundance—so that
of what they shout; their very|even the Mates of Shee-Reff Yall
could not complain, which proved
the worth of the Annual Hop—for
it is written that the Dwellers of
the Mysterious Fortress enjoy
themselves but once each year.

 

Hart House
String Quartette

Nova Scotian Hotel
OCT. 2rd, $.15 P.M.

STUDENTS’ DIRECTORY

The Dalhousie Students’ Directory, which contains addresses
and telephone numbers of all
students, will appear next week.
Will all students who since registration have changed their addresses please call Charles Filler,
B-5888.

Under Auspices of Halifax
Ladies’ Musical Club.

Students’ Tickets 50e upon
showing of S. C. Ticket.

WHO KNOWS?
In what is called the good old days,
A century or two ago,
Our fathers had ideas and ways
Which modern people do not know.
And that is how they accounted for

Birks - Balfour

The L. G. Balfour Company, makers of Fraternity
Jewellery, have entered into an agreement with
Henry Birks & Sons, to

manufacture and distribute evil:
for them in Canada. They simply blamed it upon the
devil!

Better service, and closer
contacts, are thus assured
for Fraternity and Sorority
members.

But now that we have grown more
sage
Than they who lived in days of
yore,
We know not Satan in this age,
Though evil is here as before.
Limited |
DIAMOND MERCHANTS
Halifax, N. S.

gone,

ness on?

| But now that the devil is dead and

Pray tell me, who carries his busi
I am in first year Commerce and/|of the more important English Pub
have affiliated with the Dept. of |lie Schools and Universities; within
Erotics. I am taking Erotics 1 and|a comparatively short time it not
2 and like them very much. I am only justified its existence, but bevery eager to get started on the|came an almost indispensable part
Principles of Parking, but have not| of the British educational system.
had any success in my Methods of| The Corps at Dalhousie was orMeeting. According to Proceedure| ganized on its present basis in the
No. 1 in Gosh, I should open the| Fall of 1928. It consisted of one
Library door for the girl of myjcompany of infantry, having a
choice and then walk along with|strength of eighty-one, all ranks.
her, chatting about the weather|Instituted as a self-supporting orfirst and classes later until I dis-| ganization, it was and still is, incover her name.
her residence at 6.25 P.M., when|from the Students’
she is sure to be in and ask for a
theatre date. I have managed the|sum for his training during the winfirst steps quite well on several oc-| ter,
icasions, but as she lives at the| |and rifle shooting.
Hall, I can never make a telephone | Examinations are held in
connection between 5.46 and 8,.59)|Spring which qualify those who pass
P.M., when it is too late to go out.
What shall I do? Should I change
my procedure?

Council.

Non-Permanent Active Militia,

The season is closed with a banquet at one of the hotels.

The charge will be made that such
an organization is hardly befitting
to a Democracy. If this is so, the
“Great Land of the Free” has committed an unpardonable offense, inasmuch as military training without
pay is compulsory at State Universities.

The C.O.T.C. wants all male students to give one night a week, that
they may receive benefits financial
and otherwise, and that they may
be competent to serve their King and
|Country should the need ever arise.

C. O. T. C. MEMBER.

Trustingly yours,
KNOTT LIKELY.

Dear Mr. Likely:

I should advise that you walk
the same girl at least three times.
Then on the fourth occasion, make
the date. The least she can do is
turn you down, gracefully or otherwise. I know that Sheriff Hall is
notorious for the offence you mention. One Pine Hiller wasted 25c
one evening last Spring trying to
get in touch with his snugglepuppy who was “at dinner” from)
6.30 to 7.50 P.M. He finally sands
over—and got her,

Let me warn you about one oi
of chiseling-cutie, the Frozen Asset. |
Prof. Egan will tell you that a F
A. is something of potential value, |
but which can’t be capitalized. In|
other words, you can’t get anything |
from a F. A., which makes the type |

 

 

HALIFAX TAXI CO.
At or B.7376

Service
Lowest Rate to Students.

   

  

 

;

Nova Scotian Hotel

 

 

Then I should call) dependent of any financial support |
Each member is paid a nominal |
which consists of drill lectures |

the

for a Lieutenants’ commission in the |

Page Three

The

Poets’ Corner

 

MEMORIES.

Deep in the heart of every living
man

There is a precious image fondly
kept

Of one proud face he knew since
Sense began,

Of lips that laughed with him, of
eyes that wept,

Of places where those eyes and
lips met him

And clung and burned with passionate desire—

Now all the gone, yet ashes on the
pyre

Of Love remain—the mem-ry of her
kiss.

So now and then we find him gently
seize

EKestatic moments from his reveries

And choose from out him mem’ry’s
golden store

A jewel of his life, and turn it o’er,

And as its facets gleam you hear;
him say

Before he puts its carefully away:

“IT kept each varied memory of you

Deep down within the coffers of my
heart

Like hoarded
kept apart

Lest they be tarnished by the baser
few—
How jealously all those were kept
from view
Of prying eyes!
with a start,

I found that some black thief had
stolen part

Of my rich treasure, left me with
the new,

The dull and baser thoughts,
took the old

And golden memories I cherished
best—

The ones that I would take and
polish bright

With gentle, caressing hopes.
mal, cold

And terrible as winter candlelight,

My heart lies dull and heavy in my
breast.

coins —the golden

 

But one night,

 

Winchester

CIGARETTES
Blended Right!

and

SAVE THE POKER HANDS
Dis
 

 

 

Was snapped in twain. You said,
“Tho’ years may pass,

Yet I will keep this stem until we
dine

Again.” The years have passed and,
with them, you.

Each glass is stained and marred
with countless chips.

But now and then I reminisce a bit

With witty speech and scintillating| And take each stemless bowl —I
wine— have a few—

What thoughts your toes could tele- | Remembering the night it touched
graph to mine! your lips,

And when the toast was drunk, the| And hold it in my hand and gaze
fragile glass at it.”

Yet, those remaining are like goblets fine

Which once held all our sparkling
laughter rare,

When you and I would meet to
banish care

 

‘Specials for Dal Students Only
IF YOU SHOW THIS ADVERTISEMENT

and

HAIR TRIM, SHAMPOO
WAVE, all 3 for

12 PERMANENT CURLS for
(Includes Shampoo)

FINGER

15 years experience is your assurance of satisfaction

harriette

Q4 te heen GARDEN RD

Ground Floor Mills Bldg.
B-7022.

 

 

 

    

ROM THE

WINNERS "rier

For 60 years the REACH Trade
Mark on Sporting Goods has
been a mark of perfection. No
matter what your favorite sport
may be we can supply you with
equipment that will help you
play the game with the best
that’s in you.

Cragg Bros. Co.

Limited.
Hardware & Sporting Goods.
HALIFAX, N.S

 

       
   
         
     
     

Student’s Special

SUITS or TOPCOATS
perfectly dry cleaned
and pressed

$1.25

Sponged and Pressed, 45c.
Called for and delivered.

Telephone Lorne 2323.

Cousins’ Limited

Dry Cleaners - Dyers - Tailors

       
       
     
        

“None better—anywhere” De

ral

| FRESHIE-SOPH DANCE

Thurs. Oct. 25 at 8.30

 

NAUGLER’S ORCHESTRA
5

  

TICKETS $1.25 PER COUPLE. 75c. SINGLE

 

 
  
   

  
  

Se ea ed eeeeeetinaeneeonneaioctasiiiensstnio== tomentose
. .

en

    

—————_—
'

marked with
| both teams, Wandere»
lia seconds. Dal Cubs appeai
be the stronger team throughc

 

  
    

the game but bad passes spoil

their chances of seoring.

On a clear pass from Lorway
front of the goal Ted Crease rush’
over the line only to have the r
eree call him back. On many «
casions the Wanderers were ha
pressed only to stave off attac
time after time. Crease receiv
an injury early in the second half
yet refused to leave the game. He
has since been confined to the hospital which he was unable to leave
until Tuesday. A second injury
came later in the game to the Cubs
when Bob McLellan, scrum half, received a bad bruise on his shoulder
to be forced from play.

The only score of the game came
in the closing minutes when Joudrey, of the Wanderers Seconds, intercepted a pass near the five yard
mark to go over for a touch which
the Reds failed to convert.

Webber was by far the outstanding half as he consistently followed
up and tackled for the Cubs. Of
the backfield men Lorway, Crease
and McLellan were the pick with
Flynn figuring well in the runs.

Cubs line-up: Fullback, Gosse;
three-quarters, Rogers, C. Miller,
Lorway, Flynn; halves, T. Crease,
(captain), McLellan, Webber; forwards, Webster, Laurence, Beeber,
Kitz, Fraser, Magonet, Murray.

LAW TEAM WINS IN
THE OPENING GAME

The Interfaculty Football League

opened with a bang on Monday afternoon, with the fast travelling
lawyers eking out a close win over
the Engineers-Commerce team. The
game was featured by fast, open
play on the part of both teams and
while the law scrum heeled the ball
consistently, the Engineer’s quarterline of Rogers, Gosse and Cameron
kept their team in the running by
some brilliant broken field gains.
For the law team Cougle, Arab and
Henchey showed to advantage with
the first mentioned getting the
scores, The kicking of Mit Musgrave
featured the defensive play of the
Engineer-Commerce team and he
also proved a scoring threat when
near the end of the game, he went
over for a try which reduced the
law margin to three points.

With the Engineers pressing the
game ended 6 to 3 in favor of the
law team. While both teams showed good foot-ball, the absence of a
good place kicker was noticable, all
the kicks on goal being missed.

Law line-up—Forwards, J. Ross,
J. Mercer, W. Grant, B. Baldwin, H.
Hanson, H. Sutherland; halves, S.
Khattor, B. McGilvary; quarters, M.
Hinchey, C. Manning, B. Batt, E.
Arab; full-back, K. Cougle.

Engineer-Commerce — Forwards,
B. Goodman, W. Burchell, H. Johnson, M. Musgrave, L. Simmons, B.
Butherland; halves, S. Petrie, Simmons; quarters, Rogers, W. Wood,
Gosse, Cameron.

FRASER BROS.
TAXI

25c. Rate

On all Student call.
B-6070

   

The

Canterbury Room

    
       

While students were at

      
  

home during the summer

  
    
   
 

The Green Lantern made
a decided change in decorating The Canterbury
Room.

    
     
 
     
 
     
       

Cosy and very

    

nice.

 
      
  
    

| TheGreen Lantern

 

nume:c; |

|

 

   
      
 
    
       

Dal Team to Play Acadia Saturday ©

 

INTERFACULTY FOOTBALL
MEETING

The interest- being shown by the
managers and executives of the
different faculties, assures that this
will be a good year for interfaculty
sports.

At a meeting on Saturday, called
to draw up the football schedule,
every faculty of the university was
represented. After some discussion
regarding the number of students
from whom the various managers
could pick their teams, it was decided that it would be in the interest
of the league to allow the Commerce
and Engineer teams to unite, thus
assuring one strong team to represent the two societies. Since the
Dentistry representatives did not
think that they had sufficient members, with a knowledge of the game,
to assure a full team, it was agreed
that rather than exclude any student from the game, the Dentists
would be allowed to play with any
team in the league.

Interfaculty Football Schedule.
Monday, Oct. 15—1 to 2, Law vs.

Engineer-Commerce..

Saturday, Oct. 20—12 to 1, Arts
vs. Freshmen; 1 to 2, Medical
vs. Law.

Monday, Oct. 22—1 to 2, EngineerCommerce vs. Arts.

Saturday, Octo. 27—12 to 1, Law vs.
Arts; 1 to 2, Freshmen vs.
Medicine.

Monday, Oct. 29—1 to 2, Freshmen
vs. Engineer-Commerce.

Saturday, Nov. 3—12 to 1, Law vs.
Freshmen; 1 to 2, Medicine vs.
Arts.

Monday, Nov. 5—1 to 2, EngineerCommerce vs. Medicine.

In order to keep the interest of
teams that have lost one or more
games and yet assure a consistent
winner an advantageous position; a
play off system was arranged, by
which the second and third place
teams will play a sudden death
game, with the winner meeting the
first place team for the championship.

D. A. A. C. MEETING

The first meeting of the Dalhou- |
sie Amateur Athletic Club was held |
at Studley Gymnasium, at noon |
Tuesday with President George |
Thompson chairman. Bob McLellan, Halifax, as Secretary. A motion was made by Hymie Magonet
that “D” men be allowed to compete
in interfactulty football. In order
to conform with the Constitution of
the Club the matter was deferred
for a week.

Some discussion was held on the
matter of Arts and Science graduates wearing gold “D’s” when attending post-graduate and professional faculties of this University.
Motion finally made that the matter
be called to the attention of the executive. Fred Wishart and Jerry
Tanton spoke on the motion.

A question was raised as to the
American rugby team using the
name Dalhousie, this matter was
left over for further discussion at
a future meeting.

Election of members was held fo
the Management Committee with
the following elected: Senate, Dr.
Bell and Dean McDonald; Law,
Michael Hinchey; Medicine, Eldon
Eldon Eagles; Arts and Science,
Henry Ross; Dentistry, Ken Congle.

 

SPORT REVIEW

Dal vs. Acadia Saturday at Studley.

Many will miss the Weekly Sport
Review by Ted Crease. It is hoped,
however, that the popular athlete’s
column will appear next week, and
furthermore that Ted is now out of
the hospital on the road to recovery
sounds good.

Acadia’s loss was our gain in a
cheer leader. Good work at the
game Saturday, Roger. Rand is
taking law at Dalhousie.

Congratulations to Bob McLennan, Truro, on his appointment as
assistant Football Manager.

Harold Davison, noted football
and basketball star, was seen on the
field at practises. His addition to
the team would be an asset. Davy
has been in retirement due to an
injured knee.

We regret to hear of the retirement of Hal Conners, star fullback
of the Tigers for the past few
years.

Rumor is that Vic Kyte will be
out of the game for the rest of the
season. Henry Ross is improving
slowly and may soon be seen on a
Dal line-up.

First year students now have to
take compulsory gymnasium. A
noble move by the authorities
somewhat similar to the system used
for some time by Mr. A. and Acadia.

Well, Dalhousie Tigers in their
first game won a mighty victory,
but in second were the victims of
an equally inglorious defeat. Wanderers may give credit for their win
to a pack of forwards, that Sed
Coach McCarthy admits, played a
whale of a game.

Our team offers no excuses. They
were beaten by a better team and |
they admit it. However, in all fairness to them we might point out
that during the first period they
matched in the scrum their muscle
against the sheer weight of the visitors and actually held their own.
But muscle tires quickly under such |
pressure, and so during the second |
half Wanderers broke through our |
scrum again and again. |

In the backfield improper timing |
of passes and too much fancy kick- |
ing robbed the “speedy boys” of effective scoring ability. |

John S. Buckley, Esq., revealed to |
the boys that he has developed quite |
a turn of speed. Breaking through

the centre at the 50 yard mark Buck |
showed his heels to the visitors for |

twenty-five yards and then began to |
look around for some supporters.
They were not there; for even they
were unable to catch up to their re-|
juvenated team mate. :

Hal Davidson star of several form- |
er rugby teams has once more donned the yellow and black uniform.
it is probable that he will be on the |
line-up against Acadia this Saturday and we hope that his addition
will bolster up the team to the extent of winning one of the most important games of the season.

Owing to a heavy downpour on
Friday the Tennis team did not
make the trip to New Brunswick to
plav for the Intercollegiate title.

The D. A. A. C. meeting on Tuesday brought to light only co cleo
ly the unfortunate condition of its

 

constitution. One of the most important breeches of the regulations,
its was pointed out, was the fact
that men are wearing Dalhousie
“D’s”, who, on receiving them knew
they were returning to college.

One individual, who is eligible for
Dalhousie’s most coveted athletic
award, in a casual and matter-offact tone stated that he didn’t give
a damn if he got it or not when he
graduated. We knew that in many
Dalhousie athletes enthusiasm was
pretty far gone but to think that it
has come to this.

Quick Henry the smelling salts!!

 

Dal American Team
Continue Winning Streak

Once again the Dalhousie exponents of American football proved
their superiority on the gridiron,
after defeating Ardmores by the
one-sided score of 25—0. Due to
the inclemency of the weather, together with the English Rugby tilt
between Dalhousie and Wanderers,
a small number of spectators turned
out to witness the game. The Dal
team looked resplendent in their
new uniforms and proceeded to attack Ardmores in the good old
American football fashion. But although the action was plentiful
there were no signs of superior
playing. Ardmores were grossly in-experienced and offered hardly any
competition to the onslaught of the
Dalhousie team.

Gladstone, L.E.; Dubilier, L. T.;
Becker, L.G.; Glorioso, C.; Allyn,
R.T.; Rosenberg, R.G.; Pearlman,
R.E.; Kranz, Q.B.; Stein, L.H.B.:
Miller, R.H.B.; Ingham, F.B.

Substitutes: Horowitz, Green,
Schlossberg, Fairstein, Gaum, Shandalov and Schwartz.

 

**Fireworks’”’

A special meeting of the D. A.
A. C. will be held on Tuesday,
October 23rd, at 12.00 Noon, in
the Gymnasium for the purpose
of considering several suggested
amendments to the Constitution.
All members are urged to attend.

GEO. C. THOMPSON,
President.

TENNIS PLAY-OFFS
ARE POSTPONED
Unfavourable weather interferred
with New Brunswick’s Intercollegiate Tennis Finals—with the result
that a winner had not been selected
to oppose Dal at Sackville Saturday. It is expected that the winner of Mt. A. and U. N. B. will oppose Dal at Sackville this coming
week-end. Don Bauld, manager, is
hoping to present the following

 

players in an attempt to once more
bring the Maritime Intercollegiate
title to Dalhousie: M. Musgrave, D.
Saunderson, J. Goodwin, E. Stewart
and Jean Chuchill, Helen Holman,
Betty Miller, Isabel Fraser.

 

     

Annual Interfaculty

TRACK MEET
Studley. Campus

Thurs. Afternoon, Oct. 18

 

   

 

|

      
   

October 18, 1934

 

RUGBY FOOTBALL

 

Dalhousie vs. Acadia

STUDLEY CAMPUS — SATURDAY, OCT.

20th

 

This is the Crucial Game of the Series!
EVERYBODY OUT!

Senior Game at 2 p.m. sharp
Intermediate, 3.30 P.M.

 

Tigers Tie Wanderers For
Second’ Place In Loop

Dal Takes Lead in Initial Period With Score of Six to Three
Only to be Overcome in the Final Round by the Reds.

The black and yellow striped Bengals came onto the field
strong favorites by virtue of their overwhelming win over the
Services at Redland on Saturday.

The Wanderers presented a

revamped team from that which lost to the Acadians in their

opening league tussle.

McCarthy, however, was content to

send into action his original league opening choice.

Although the Tiger’s scrum heeled the ball out twenty
times to eighteen of the opponents Stoddard was unable to get
the ball away to the line due to speedy tackling of the Reds.
Many a possible line run was pinched in the bud by not getting
past the picking-quarter, Carl Stoddard. Penalties were fairly
even with the Red Shirts getting ten, to Dal’s eight.

The first score came following a
bullet-like pass by the Wanderers
missing the intended player back of
a 15 yard  secrum-down. Dal
forwards quickly followed up to
block the fullback’s kick and Big
Don Ross, husky forward, carried
the ball over the line near the corner. It was a difficult angle from
which to convert, and Doug Crease’s
kick barely missed the uprights by
inches. Score 3-0 for Dalhousie.

Play being resumed the Reds rushed into Dal territory where they received a free kick on a penalty by
Dal, which Young booted over the
bar to tie the score at 3 all.

The Tigers soon again took the
lead one a penalty kick by Crease
to make the total 6-3 in their favor
—which ended the scoring for the
opening period.

It was Young again, who sent the
leather over on a penalty boot to
once more tie the scoring at six all.
Twice were the Wanderers’ forwards
called back on disputable touches
which only served to arouse their
dogged determination to win. From
then on no team, not even the famous Caledonians, could have stopped
that aggressive pack of forwards
led by Grant, Johnston and Boyd.

A scrum at five yards gave Young
the ball as he plunged over the Dal
line for three points to break the
tie. Score 9 to 6 for Wanderers.
Soon after the Bengals hit back
strongly as Buckley broke loose for
an almost certain score only to lose
the ball on a pass with none but the
Red’s fullback between him and the
line.

 

   

Halifax Transfer

Phone B, 7138

 
 

 

I know my business — BUT
I need your head in it.

Haircuts 25c.

 

BERT BOWLBY |

445 BARRINGTON STREET
(Over Buckley’s)

 

EVERY DAY IS
BARGAIN DAY

AT |

TIP
TOP TAILORS ||
|

ONE PRICE ONLY

$23.50 |

MADE TO MEASURE |
SUITS, OVERCOATS, FULL
DRESS AND TUXEDO.

422 BARRINGTON ST.

 

 

 

The Reds added five more points
when Miller, a forward, took the
leather from a mix-up to touch
which Duffus converted. The scoring ended by a most thrilling and
flashy play by the Wanderers in
which Johnson and Grant each took
the ball ten yards apiece from center field. As Grant was downed by
the tackling of the Dal forwards he
passed to Cotter who with a sensational run of 60 yards, diagonally
across the field, eluded all tacklers
to plant the ball behind the line..

Vie Kyte, stocky backfield Dalhousian, weakened his team’ in the
last ten minutes of play, as he was
carried from the field with a wrenched knee. Carl Stoddard gave many
a yard to his team with kicking”
ahead when he found it impossible
to pass out to the line. George
Thompson’s work on the half line
was noteworthy, as he _ recovered
many a loose ball punted by the
Reds. Praise should be given to two
former Tigers on the Reds line-up,
Bord Stoddard and Ort Hewitt who
figured prominently in their team’s
victory.

Dalhousie line-up: Fullback, Worrell; three-quarters, Kyte, Buckley,
Crosby, G. Thompson; halves, D.
Crease, G. Tanton (captain), C.
Stoddard; forwards, N. Ferguson,
Bent, D. Ross, Sheppard, Bauld,
Barnstead, Peters.

 

nr

ROBERT DONAT

hone

ALEXANDRE DUMAS’

THE COUNT

OF

MONTE CRISTO

The Power—the Sweep—the
Romance of Dumas’ great
novel brought to the screen
in full glory!

SATURDAY
MON. and TUES.

 

  

CASINO

Saturday - Monday - Tuesday

e
JEAN PARKER

in
“HAVE A HEART”
with
JAMES DUNN

STUART ERWIN
UNA MERKEL

Oo
Coming
Wednesday, October 24th

“The Age of Innocence”
with
Irene Dunne

 

 

 

 
