 
 

 

1ret

VOL. XV.

Official Student Publication

 

 

HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA, JANUARY 11, 1935

ALHOUSIE ™ GAZETTE

oe ~S at Dalhousie University

 

No. 11

 

Dr. Munro Conducts Forum |Dalhousie Medical School
~ On the Saar and its Plebiscite

Lecture Room Filled, For a Change.

Dr. H. F. Munro, Superintendent of Education for Nova

Scotia,

addressed a gathering of about 100 students on Tues
; Ne f

at noon in Room 3 of the Arts Building. A great deal o
ect was manifested by students by the fact that so many
turned out to hear an analysis of the Saar problem which, as a
topic of international importance, has become increasingly im
portant during recent months,
is to

due to the fact that a plebiscite
be conducted in the Saar next Sunday. Bruce Fergusson,

President of the S. C. M., under whose auspices the forum was

held, acted as chairman.

The speaker gave a general outline of the European situation. since
the Treaty of Versailles with particular reference to this past war, the
object being to set out all the problems which may and will undoubtedly
effect the plebiscite which is to be
held on the 13th of this month.

Two factors are of great importance. First, France obtained sole
and absolute ownership of the coal
mines in the Saar Valley by the
peace treaty; and secondly, the
sovereignty of the territory was retained by Germany although held in
abeyance. The Saar is a small territory with about 800,000 population
all German by race, and about 75
percent Catholic in religion.

For the past fifteen years the
Saar has been administered under
the trusteeship of the League acting in a commission of five. At present there are really only two fac
____ tions in the Saar, the German front
the Nazi party in the Saar, and the

Front of Freedom made up of socialists, communists, but principally
Catholics who are German at heart
but who will not support the present
German regime. Dr. Munro sug-,
gested that there was little doubt
that the plebiscite would go in favor of Germany.

Until a month ago Britain was
insistent on the policy of non-interference with political concern on the
continent, but she apears to have
adopted a revolutionary policy in
her step to send troops to police the
Saar during the plebiscite.. This

was a very fortunate move for Italy
immediately agreed too to send
troops, so that today there is an
internationa police force in the Saar
comprised of four nations, the other
two being Finland and the Netherlands.

Dr. Munro, after dealing with the
question of the plebiscite went on to
discuss what would follow from the
possible results of the vote. He succinctly pointed out one important
agreement entered into during the
past year between Germany and
France. As he previously pointed
out the mines are owned absolutely
by France, should the vote go for
Germany friction might follow from
France operating mines in German
territory so Germany agreed to buy
the mines from France for 900 million frances; payment to be made
partly in coal and remainder in gold.

On the whole the league had done
an admirable job in administering

the Saar Valley, no point beirg left

unsettled and the crowning achievement is the presence of an international police force for the first time
in the history of the league to back
up one of its decisions.

Dr. Munro was then asked many
questions which though they showed the friendly feeling, between the
speaker and audience, did not reflect on the intelligence of the audience as a whole, the questions for
the most part being silly, stupid
and in no way reflecting the type
of education which Dal aims to give
her students.

 

Trials Tonight
For Radio Team

Trials tonight at the Munro Room
will decide who will represent Dalhousie in the coming Radio Debate
against University of New Brunswick. The debate will be broadcast
over the Canadian Commission Network and is open to all Dalhousie
students. Trials begin at 8.30 p.m.

Two will be selected by the judges
who will have a first chance for the
team. Two others will be picked in
case radio tests of the first two indicate their voices are unsuitable.
An interesting feature of these trials
is that candidates may read their
speeches.

Last year Dal teams debated over
the radio against U.N.B. and McGill,
John Fisher, Howard Oxley and
Leonard Hawco being on the teams.
Of these, Oxley and Hawco are not
now at Dalhousie and Fisher states
he will not try out this year.

 

eInterfaculty Sports Meeting

An important meeting was called
by Ernie Richardson, Vice-President
D.A.A.C., at which schedules were
released for Basketball and Softball
and League plans were made.

No definite dates were set for
games except for softball games this
week. Managers were advised to
watch the notice board at the Gym
for scheduled games—the time and
day to be posted each Saturday for
games in the following week.

As to eligibility for interfaculty
sports—players on the senior team

_ list to be ineligible as well as any

other player who in that season,

Dr. Lother Richter
To Give Lectures

An opportunity for students to get
a close insight into present German
political conditions is given by Dr.
Lother Richter of the Language Department, with the announcement
he will deliver four lectures on post
war development in Germany.

The lectures, which are free, will
be given in the Physics Theatre,
Science Building, at 8.15 p.m. Following: are the approximate dates
and titles:

1, January 11—Versailles Treaty
and its Effects.

2. February—Explosion and Adjustments.

3. March — Economic
ments.

4, April—Social Results.

According to Campus rumors, Dr.
Richter is more at home with political economy than in the study of
languages. He is available at Dalhousie only because there is a tendency in present day Germany to
have but one outlook on _ politics,
which, unfortunately (or fortunately) is not that of Dr. Richter.

Accordingly, his treatment of
German liberal opinion on Social and
economic conditions following the
Versailles Treaty is expected to be
interesting.

Develop
 

plays in one senior game or two
intermediate games. A player is not
however, ineligible in one sport because he has a D or is member of a
Senior or Intermediate team in another sport.

Tops Can. In Examinations)

Dockerty Gets Second Place in List.
Shining far above the usual mediocre showing of the Arts
and Science students in the Christmas examinations this year
was the remarkable achievement of ten Dalhousie Medicine

    

J. E. Hiltz

x

| Cc. E, Stuart.

 

 

HERE are the students of :

Dalhousie Medical
School who led the seven
recognized medical schools
| of Canada in their examin' ations. In addition, one stu
dent of the Nova Scotia university was second among
280 in all parts of Canada
who took the tests.

   

W. B. Wright M. B.

 

 

A J. Andrew

 

students in leading all the other medical schools of Canada in
the Medical Council of Canada examinations.

Obtaining an unusually high average of 73.4 per cent without a single failure in the examinations which permit the candidate to practise in any province of the Dominion, the Dalhousie school had a solid block of successes unequalled any
where else in the Dominion.

Without doubt, the achievement of
Maleom B. Dockerty, John S. Robertson, Raymond M. Zwicker, William Ross Wright, John E. Andrew,
Harvey D. Hebb, William D. Piercey,
Joseph E. Hiltz, Charles E. Stewart,
and William E. Pollett is memorable
and brings honor and distinct recognition of the high standards of this
college by the sea.

The examinations are conducted
yearly by examining board of outstanding Canadian medical men at
several points across Canada and
the results compiled by a Central

Commerce-Eng

Plan Bigger Dance

Once again the mammoth social
function of Studley has appeared
bright and enticingly in the centre
of the post-Christmas social whirl.

“Big Jim’s” financiers and Professor Copp’s technicians and build
ers have put their financial and
technical copavilities together to
make this dance an outstanding
success.

On January 16, the Nova Scotian
Hotel will be in gala array; to the
merry melodies of Laurie Hart and
his orchestra, dancing will commence
at nine o’clock; hats, horns, streamers, and noise-makers will add to the
merriment; an elaborate supper will
be served.

Fred Smith will be seen in novelty
dances, and Miss Marguerite Redden and her pupils will entertain
with solo and group dances.

The chaperons for the event will
be Professor and Mrs. Copp and
PProfessor and Mrs. J. M. MacDonald.

The committee responsible for
the combined Commerce-Engineers
Dance, consists of Messrs. Harold
Nelson, Doug. Bent and Mit Musgrave. The split, it is rumored, is on
the basis of Commerce—sixty percent and Engineers—forty percent.

Examining Board which meets at
Ottawa. At the Halifax station, the
Dalhousie students underwent .an
oral examination by Nova Scotia
and New Brunswick doctors, and
the written examination by the
Canadian examiners.

Leading the rest of Canada as a
body, one of the “solid ten”, Malcom B. Dockerty, placed second in
the lists of the 280 Canadian students writing the stiff set of papers.

Never has Dalhousie made such a
showing, though it is claimed it has
always done remarkably well.

| Gazette Contest
Lacks Support

From the response accorded the
Gagette’s offer of ten volume prize
for the best essay on selected titles
it seems evident Dalhousie students
either do not want books from the
Everyman’s Library as a gift or are
too lazy to go after them.

Only three essays were submitted
for the prize, despite the two weeks
extension and the second and wider
list of subjects: Dr. Pellnet, of the
Biology Department and Professor
George Curtis of the Law School to
whom the essays were submitted for
judgment decided none of these
warranted the reward of a ten books
prize. Both expressed surprise that
so few essays were received and suggested those submitted showed evidence of hasty work and a decided
lack of humour. .

 

KING’S TROUNCE FROSH, 41-12

Letting forth an unrelentless attack, the Kingsmen left no doubt as
to their ability at the bat and as
serious contenders for the League
title. Playing only five innings, the
winners established an enviable average of over eight runs per inning.
The Meds’ big inning the previous
evening of ten runs was outshone
when in the third the Frosh were
found for 17 tallies.

Dal Governor Passes On

Death Is Loss To Community.

Once more death has struck at a loyal supporter and Gov
ernor of Dalhousie University.
holidays that the death of O.

occured.

It was during the Christmas
E. Smith, Halifax millionaire,

Generous even in death, O. E. Smith remembered many
worthy institutions, charitable and otherwise, chiefly in the city.
To Dalhousie he left 15 percent of the yearly interest of his es
tate, amounting in all probability to $1,500,000.

In addition,

another 5 percent was bequeathed to Dalhousie’s Public Health

Clinic.

QO. E. Smith in his will expressed the desire his be
queathment to Dalhousie should be used for some distinct purpose, favorably instituting a new chair.

Other organizations benefiting from
Mr. Smith’s will are the Children’s
Hospital, which has long received the
support of Mr. Smith, Mount Allison
University, Pine Hill, St. Andrew’s
Church, Y. M. C. A., Grace Maternity
Hospital, and numerous other hospiIt
was typhical of Mr. Smith that, in
death, he remembered, also, his many

tals, school and industrial homes.

employes.

Son of a loyalist father and Scotch
mother, Obed Edmund Smith left Port
Hood Island where he was born 71
years ago and after a short business
college course, entered the tea firm
His Scotch
training did him well and after a few
years, he was able to buy himself ;
Dissatisfied with the old system of importing
tea through London, the young man

of J. E. Morse and Co.

partnership in the business.

could do it without fanfare.

a

 

OBED EDMUND SMITH

made tea a cheaper beverage in Nova Scotia by bring ing it here directly.
O. E. Smith was a man who enjoyed helping public welfare schemes,

provided he was sure it was the public who was to benefit and that he

Throughout his life, he was never known
tomake a display or show of public spiritedness.

He left a trust of over

a million dollars for others—the income from $1000 he considered suffici
ent to care for his grave.

In his death, Dalhousie has lost another friend, but with typical
sagacity, Mr. Smith provided that the support of his friendship should

continue after he had gone.

 

Pine Hill on Parade| Stage Crew Ends

Most of our residents have returned from the Christmas holiday
though we regret to report the loss
of two, who have gone to live in the
city, Wilmur Fraser and Russell
Strong.

 

Fraser Nicholson is reported to
have received at least one useful
and timmely present. A parcel addressed to “The biggest sucker in
town” and one of those confections
so dear to the heart and taste of
childhood reached him during the
holiday, and he is waiting for the
thoughtful donor to declare himself
(or herself), so that he may thank
him in person.

 

One of the most serious rumours
current here, concerns the near advent of still another Pine Hill
dance. Is it possible that our grave
and reverend theologues can have
anything to do with the spreading
of such an agitatioon?

 

A notable change which has taken
place in our residence since before
Christmas has been the furnishing of
the common room with benches and
arm-chairs. It has improved the
apperance of the room considerably
but Art Wright is wondering whether it will be possible to play bridge
there in “solid comfort’’,

 

Bob Wright’s father, Rev. H. G.
Wright of Inverness is visiting with
us for a few days.

 

Pine Hill vs. Arts & Science in
the Inter-faculty soft-ball league
played on Wednesday night, the
score being 20-6 in favour of Pine
Hill.

In the fourth the Frosh took advantage of weak fielding of the victors to score eight runs. Jim Graven
took honors as the winning pitcher,
although having only two out of five
scoreless innings. Dirk Orlando,
Hutchins, and Willet for King’s led
the scoring, each crossing the plate
a half-dozen times.

Ghost Train Set

With the first production of the
term well under way, Glee Club
faces the New Year. Under the
capable direction of Warren Beazley and Ben Isner, the stage crew
has completed the set to be used in
the “Ghost Train” and are now hard
at work on the stage effects of the
play. Due to the economy measures
forced on all student activities, Glee
Club was unable to budget for the
labor necessary to the building of a
set, and much credit is due to those
lads who gave up their Christmas
holidays to this work. Any credit—
if such there be—that is given to
the Glee Club, for this play will belong to a great extent to the stage
crew,

Meanwhile, the cast is back at
work under the watchful eye of
Director Connolly, and there seems
to be some slight chance that the
histrionic art will not disappear
completely from our midst.

A word from the executive of the
society informs us that the date of
presentation of the “Ghost Train”
has not been definitely settled, but
will probably be in the last week of
the month. The second Glee Club
Nite of 1935 will call out the college
musical talent again. Just what
form the production will assume is
not as yet divulged, but much is
hoped for from the Taylor regime.
In recent years this show has been
a minstrel after the fashion of Bob
Weitz, but this year Bob is not with
us and it is very likely that the
minstrel idea will be given a rest.

In starting out the New Year, the
Glee Club expresses the hope that
the increased interest evidenced in
this society by the students during
the last term will be continued during the term now commencing.

 

NOTICE
An important meeting of
the Gazette staff will be held
in the Gazette office, Murray
Homestead, Thursday,
noon.

at

 
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
    
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
  
 
 
  
  
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
   
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
  
   
 
  
   
  
 
  
  
  
 
 

<7 “Sorx_)

. “The Oldest College Paper in America”

ra

~

    

  

RIAL STAFF

Editors

F. E. GOUDGE
6295

°

News Editor ARTHUR MERKEL
B. 5108
Sports Editor
BILL DAVIS
B. 4884

Assistant

ARTHUR MEAGHER
B. 2886

Othe: i | ; is i i : . Ferguson, E
‘ Other contributors to this issue inclue: D. Robb, N ;

Arab, H. Ross, I. Pink, N. Green, D. Crease, E. Ballem, B. Graham, 1:
_ MacKeigan, C. Legrow and M. Purtill.

OBED EDMUND SMITH

oe ai ives this
The recent death of Obed Edmund Smith depriv

ieee of another friend and loyal supporter. The story

Mr. Smith’s life is that typhical of North America. Born in

pe Breton in comparitively poor surroundings, he rose by his

ability and ambition to be a man of wealth, power and
ode ie his community. His wealth he made from the peo
but economics students noted his wealth, coming from the
ee was pained by suppling them with a necessity at
yper prices, the cheapness being obtained by Mr. Smith's
ive ability to rout out waste and extravagance. The wealth
| he accumulated, Mr. Smith turned back to the people.

. =

‘Seldom has Canada seen a will as that he left which was as
generous to worthy causes. | :
Phe Bening hoa Mr. Smith leaves a fine record of service, both
to industry and to the public. His clear vision, balanced judgand éxecutive powers are proved by the long list of financial and commercial institutions of which’ he was the head or
director, Nova Scotia and Canada were made better places
1 which to live by his efforts. In his public life, he was ever
stentatious. He preferred to work quietly, with no more
n necessary display. But in the background of any public
movement, he was there with his support. .
-—s- Mr. Smith, frankly, had a certain reputation for being always “businesslike”. But no one who went to him able to show
which O. E. Smith could permanently help ever returned
led. His Cape Breton nature abhorred waste; he
» for the moment—he would always help for

“eo

7
1
te

Pk
‘ott

a a

30
ate part of his estate to Dalhousie. It is
y flat’ hat! a a who had never attended the
ity should think it worth his while to make it easier for
s to be educated. His will is a silent rebuke to Dalhousie’s
aduates, who, on the whole, have been notably slack in supng their school.

oe

*

 

SIR JOSEPH A. CHISHOLM

Regardless: of one’s opinions on the question whether titles
should be give in a democratic country, the recent announce‘ment that the King’s honour list contained the name of Joseph
Andrew Chisholm was applauded by every Canadian. Indeed
there could be no sensible argument against the granting of
— honors if they were always restricted to men of his calibre. _
+ The Gazette is especially proud to note that Sir Joseph is
another Dalhousie graduate. He was given his bachelor of law
degree in 1886, the second class to graduate from the then new
Law School. Since his graduation he has always taken an active part in the public’s welfare. On the the bench he is noted
for the clarity and logic of his decisions and for the kindness
with which he received newcomers to the bar. Not the least
of his works was his biography and collection of letters of
Joseph Howe, for which students of Nova Scotia’s history will
_—__—s ever be indebted to him.
Se -  Dalhousians, with no exceptions are proud, and not without
__ reason, of their little college and of the men who have gone from
mare her halls. This year, the Medical School is not alone in deserver ; edly feeling proud of its graduates—the Law School is glad to
gee another former student receive public recognition of his

re
me oy

7 “ability and of the services he has performed for Canada.

; .
BE
i %

a 4

4

THE MEDICAL SCHOOL

mt It was with considerable pride and satisfaction ‘that Dal__ housie learned of the signal distinction awarded her Medical
__ graduates in the Dominion-wide examinations. This recogni- tion is truly symbolic of the envious position the Dalhousie
_ Medical School holds in relation to other Canadian College Medigal circles, Likewise it speaks just as forcible for the excel___ lence and thoroughness of the teaching staff.
__.. The School’s status quo is the result of a steady increase
in importance, a gradual accumulation of valuable instructors
and improved facilities all of which have come about since Dal_ housie undertook a full medical curriculum in 1911. It’s location is ideal as it is in the heart of the Hospital. district.
_ Opportunities for clinical study are excellent.

Ass (i

7 own each year so numerous are the candidates. These come
- from many distant points. This fact alone is no mean tribute
1é School’s reputation and Medical graduates from Dalhousie
itionally make their presence felt no matter to what section they may go. ; ;

__We wish however to make an acknowledgement of worth
to the chosen ten who recently did so well in competition with
other medical men. (For detailed account see news item in
issue). T heir part in maintaining Dalhousie tradition has
great and the effects lasting. | ty)

a oa Ha

ia
ee

are eS
ome,
Pe

ae
ae bas

+

oe :
5 eh

ee
as.
me \
. &
*
val f - *, Dare
hs OY to, oe ae
~~ Pay i, , ‘ a
re a” x = & ws : , 1
hs ee
Ls eres p i eat oe cay an _ Cl a 5 i,
elie imi a Rae mt
r " a, ee be Sela sal Eye

{

eat aah. re eet stare esate E> ng! dene
‘eof his to establish permanence“

   

“The Moving Finger writes, and,
_ having writ, Moves on.”
—Omar Khayyam.

 

EXAMINATIONS

The sheep have been shorn and
the pullets plucked, and once more
the prejudice-guarded examination
system is assailed. Let us for the
moment lay aside as far as possible
our resentment, for example, at being classed as mentally inferior by
the professor of Fine Arts, and consider the examination system on its
merits. Much has been said concerning its frequent unfairness, of the
handicap given the nervous student,
and of the advantages reaped by the
plugger. Much might be said of the
system as a training in deceit and
hoodwinkery—their’s not to reason
why, their’s but to go in and lie and
try to fool the professor. Not all
professors are fools, and we must
not, therefore, exaggerate these
moral effects,

We must note, however, that the
system seems to meet the necessity,
evident in the science and professional classes, for an exact estimate
of the student’s knowledge. Where
such an estimate is not so important, the system, while it exérts some
undesirable compulsion for a few
weeks, at least provides an opportunity during the rest of the year
for self-discipline.

In short, we may say that the
present examination system, when
supplemented by frequent tests or
essay assignments, works well in
some departments and faculties; in
others, even when so supplemented,
it functions with but moderate success; In some few it is a farcical yet
pitiful travesty of proper edueational methods. The doctor, not the
patient, prescribes the remedy; the
patient can only criticize the effects
of the prescribed medicine or change
his doctor. The student can only
complain that his educational sulphur and molasses is unpalatable
and that its effects are not all desirable. He can but beseech a more
careful study of his case. »

 

BOASTING

“There are two kinds of boasting
active and passive. A Yankee openly
asserts and loudly proclaims his superiority. John Bull feels and looks
it. “He don’t give utterance to this
conviction.” He takes it for granted
all the world knows and admits it,
and he is so thoroughly persuaded
of it himself, that, to use his own
favorite phrase, “he don’t care a fig
if folks don’t. admit it.’ His vanity
therefore, has a sublimity in it. He
thinks, as the Italians say, that
‘when nature formed him, she croke
the mould.’ There never was, never
can, and never will be another like
him. His boasting, therefore, is passive. He shows it and acts it; but
he doesn’t proclaim it. He condescends and is gracious, patronizes
and talks down to you. Let my
boasting alone, therefore, if you
please. You know better what it
means, what bottom it has, and
whether the plaster sticks on the
right spot or not.”

There are many clever Sayings on
this subject. “Brag is a good dog,
but hold fast is a better one.” He is
on considerable good terms with
himself, is John Bull, He thinks
the noblest work of God is an Englishman. Brag is a dog that everybody hates
only bow-wows; but he- wakes up

detraction, and he is a dangerous |

critter, for he bites without barking,
Bragging saves advertising,

 

“The mechanism of the human
heart, when you thoroughly understand it, is, like all the other works
of nature, very beautiful, very wonderful, but very simple. When it
does not work well, the fault is not
in the machinery but in the manage
Many applicants for enrollment in the school are turned |™¢?*”

 

Some members of the S. C. M.
have been overheard complaining
that over a month ago someone re
as ee eee
LL LL
ce eet eee eel a et ee

, but nobody fears, for he}

 

iand he forgets to buy his mother a
|present; when he is home for the
|holiday, he is restless; he sits in his
\chair as if there were needles un
—

Gazette
BOOK REVIEW

PEACE WITH HONOUR
A. A. Milne

Here, the versatile creator of Winnie-the-Pooh has turned his attention to more serious matters in what
is without doubt, I think, his best
performance. Skirting the complex
problems of Economies, trade rivalries and class tension which accompany war feeling, he makes up for
these gaps by his effectiveness in
launching the simplest, most courageous and best directed attack
against militarism that has yet been
written.

In logic and argument, it is very
simple, yet this simple directness
proves to be the best possible means
in securing the author’s aim, more
especially as the whole is_ beset
around with the refreshing yet
sometimes sharp fragrance of Milne
humour.

Mr. Milne writes from the firm
conviction that war is silly and
wrong.

Peoples continue to fight because
the use of war as a last resort for
national settlement has become a
convention. He shows the convention to have now become obselete,
and in so dving holds up to ridicule
the old worn-out meaningless
phrases used in association with national honour ‘and security: indeed
his contemptuous handling of the
myth of national “prestige” is one
of the high-lights of the book.

He examines critically and somewhat ironically the church’s attitude
toward war when it becomes imminent and exhorts the church to follow consistently upon its lost faith
in the cause of martyrs, and-endeavour to lose faith in war. From
a political point of view, he believes
wars to be caused because the leaders of the nations decidé to fight
them. He lays at the door of the
few (statesmen) responsible for the
horrible deaths of the many (soldiers), and even insists that the
next. war would be avoided if the
ten most influential men in’each of
the four great. European powers—
England, France, Germany, and Italy
(complete with the names of many
of the present ones) were put to
death on the outbreak of the war.

The spokesmen of the nations

must consider war as if they personally are responsible, and not their
countries, and finally in arbitration
Mr. Milne finds his alternative to
war,
. Antagonism to war had apparently long been troubling the author’s
mind, and the book is his eager outburst after a period of restive indecision. The work evidently came
from the depths of his heart, and
on its way out caught and used his
best and fullest powers of mind.

EEE
ee  ——
$$

Examinations

Post-mortems are dreadful things.
So indeed, are examinations. This
article is a post-mortem of examinations—so, you, whose dislike of both
is too great to be overborne, read no
further.

What do examinations do to the
student? For weeks beforehand, his
nights are sleepless; his pleasures,
to his poor uneasy mind, are stolen.
He sits down for a moment’s game
of bridge, at peace with the world, |
and the ugly demon of unprepared
work raises its head and he bids a|
small slam when he has two aces
and nothing else. Consequently he
is ostracized, and his life, if possible, becomes more miserable. If the
pesky things in the winter,
Christmas means only examinations

 

are

 

der him; he grabs the paper rudely
from his father; he says his prayers at night. If the examinations
are in the spring, he sees nothing
of the green buds on the trees: he
does not observe the new-springing
life and loveliness; no, he forgets
his rubbers and gets a cold in the
head. Not enough—oh no, not
enough to release him from writing
them; but just enough--oh, always,
enough—to make him irritable and

 

moved their copy of the Steven’s| dull.

Booklet from the library, and has

Now, what do the examinations

not returned it yet. Will the per-|do to—for would perhaps be the

son who has it please be kind|better word—the professors ?
|jenough to return it?

For
a month beforehand, they furnish

 

English Over
The World

Very often we see in the papers
signs of the progress of English toward world-wide use. Frequently
these bits of news take the form of
reports that Mexico or Persia or
Chile has banned our English talkies
for fear their children will come to
think our tongue more agreeable
than their own. Now and then the
items merely inform the public that
English has been adopted as the official language of another international gathering.

The four-word peace plan, “Make
Everybody Speak English”, which
Henry Ford formulated some _ years
ago, is not logically a reason for the
universal use of our tongue. Any
language, if spoken everywhere,
would make for world peace. The
three main reasons,—numbers, politics and talkies—are merely accidents of a benificent fate. They do
not penetrate the true heart of the
matter.

First, numbers. We are told that
over 220 million people either use or
understand English, as compared
with about 120 million for French
and 110 million for German, and
these numbers are advanced as if
they really meant something. But
unless English is in itself a good
and worthy language for the world

material for lectures—for a month

afterwards, they perform the same }

service. It may be, of course, that
the professors snatch at any straw
—They afford them substance for a
thousand jokes and witticisms. Examinations give the professors a
feeling of omniscience; they give
them the power of the life or the
death of the student’s work during
the year. They yield them the dubious pleasure of witnessing three
hundred souls in a state of gigantic
mental upheaval.

But enough for foolishness. Seriously, our present system of examinations is the result of the laziness
of our professors. It is so easy to
set a paper twice'a year. I make
this charge gravely and with due
consideration—even if you think by
what has gone before, that I am not
qualified to consider anything. I am
not advocating the withdrawal of
examinations, but I am saying that
they should be familiarized. They
should not be the objects of terror
and awe that they are to most students. If examinations or rather
quizzes were held weekly, and the
average of the student’s marks taken as the final mark, there would
be hone of the hasty cramming and
frantic work that the present system makes permissible and even advisable. Thus the student’s work
would be divided evenly and
because of that, the effects of his
learning more lasting.

Think it over!

 

January 11, 1935

 

to use, the mere superiority of numbers will not make it so.

Second, politics. The World War
unquestionably enhanced in tremendous measure the prestige of the
two great English-speaking nations.
British diplomats and American advisors have done much toward bringing about world peace. But—is English a good language for everybody
to speak?

Finally, talkies. The talking pictures of Hollywood and Ellestree are
riding triumphantly over all the
foreign bans, propagandizing the
English language wherever the sun
shines.’ They may well prove the
most effective instrument yet invented for spreading English.

But ought English to be spread?
It is intrinsically a better language
than French or German or even
Chinese? This is the moral question which lurks behind the facts,
and this is the question which we
must now consider.

Back in 300 B.C., to take a parallel instance, Hellenic Greek became
a world language. It supplanted to
a large extent many local tongues,
among them the Hebrew and Aramaic of Palestine. Yet either was
incomparably a_ better language
than Greek, simpler, more effective,
easier to learn and to use. Fate is
playing on the nations today no such
shabby trick as when she compelled
the Jews of Palestine to learn
Greek.

It is a curious fact that language
as we now know it develops not
from the simple to the complicated,
but vice versa. Latin is complication personified compared with
French, Spanish and Italian. Coptic
has lost many of the complications
present in the tongue of the hieroglyphics. Thus the law, “Time simplifies a tongue,” may be almost unhesitatingly accepted. A language
gradually begins to forsake its numerous declensions and conjugations, its optative, cohortative, predicative moods, and all the other flummeries of primitive speech. Gradually there begins to emerge a lean,
efficient dialect. Can you picture
yourself selecting among the twelve
possible form of “bonus” when you
might be using the simple word,
“xo0d” 2

So the first reason why English is
the best world language is that it
has carried the simplification of
forms farther than has any other
modern language. In German “good”
still has six dresses to wear, and in
French, four. The German verb
still counts its forms by the score,
and the French is not much better.
|Danish alone of modern languages
|has approached English in its formlessness.

A second qualification, scarcely
less important, is impurity. English
is probably more impure than any
other tongue, ancient or modern.
English picks up words from any
language at all, and by the process

(Continued on Page Three)

 

 

 

| —— WHERE COLLEGE MEN CONGREGATE HAE

 

Tow About That
New Overcoat?
We have lots of them in all the latest

styles and colors.

Priced at

| $19.50 $22.50 $25.° $30. |

 

 

 

| NEW HATS — SCARVE
| At Our Usual R

 

 

Shane's Men’s Shop

Thirty Spring Garden Road

 

'

S — GLOVES and SPATS
easonable Prices.

Discount of 10% Allowed Dal Students. i

'

 
P. -. ane ~-} a TZEL
' Photographers to

DALHOUSIE

Special Rates to

‘STUDENTS
24 Hour Finishing
Service

See Our Pictorial
Work for Gifts

| 18Spring Gardren Rd
| _ Phone B. 6992

ENGLISH OVER—
(Continued from Page Two)

it has succeeded in making itself international. Scarcely any foreigner
learns English withiut finding many
cad friends in the vocabulary. Imemutity is a good characteristic for
_a world language. English deserves
___-world use because it is formless, impure and wordy. No user of our
tongue need be repetitious; he can
_ vary his words with synonyms in
endless variety.
Has English no defects to set
_ against this formidable array of virtues? Yes, indeed. We have a bad
oe. peabet, a tough pair of articles
and a difficult idiom in prepositions
Past on the other hand we have a
_ natural gender, an easy sentence orSat and a splendid tolerance of alst any accent or grammar so

long as the idea it. expresses be |.
. Y ing all, defects against}
reasonably conclude}

ib epplauders- of World. Eng
have a sound linguistic justifi
on for their choice, unrecognized
as. the fact may be in the eyes of

Snon-English speaking nations.

“Let the Laundry do it”
81-85 West St. Garrick St.

Halifax Steam Laundry

Limited

Tel. L. 2300, L. 2309, L. 1618
Established 1877.

Programmes, invitations, and favors for
dances require thought
and early planning.

For that added
smartness, consult
Birks.

Henry Birks & Sons

Limited

DIAMOND MERCHANTS
Halifax, N. S.

Boilermakers

Le os ? Sat cbes hs ae Ph Lge <a Pyles sy
oi aL al Rs “ ‘aa es wy ah =, ne :

~-,
rel

ro FIRE.

Yes, she and he were there, and you,
And laughter filled the night. A few
Were still content to watch, unsen,
The leaping firelight dance and glame
On rumbling rock and curling wave.
The glowing luminescence gave

New colour to the faces there:

Pale faces old or young and fair.
Stretched here and there upon the sand,
Or seated, pensive, chin in hand,

Or proud in careless fredom stood

The friends we knew so well and loved.
Forms half in shadow, half in gold—
How strong the mem’ry still I hold!

Then suddenly and just by chance

I saw a holy radiance

Creep o’er your face and fill your eyes

With wond’rous light. "Twas no surprise

To find your artist’s soul aglow

By beauty fired. Did not I know

Of many places hushed from wind

Where we would go and try to find

A scene for you to paint, while I,

Sitting beside you there, would try

To catch the beauty with my pen

And fail, give up, then try again,

While in the fetters of your brush

aie caught the sea, the evening’s hush?
én-__—

Softly through my musing came
The gentle whisper of my name.
I felt your smooth brown hand and warm
So lightly resting on my arm,
And turned to see you wend your way
Beyond the rining voices gay, |
Pause beyond the sound of laughter—
Then I rose and followed after.
Down beside the waves I found you,
And there we stood along to view
The living beauty of the scene:
The leaping’ flames, the dying gleam
Of sparks ascending, curling smoke—
What dreams the embers could evoke!
Colours on faces, rocks and sand
Painted as by a Master’s hand.

You saw the many shades and tints,
The depth of shadow and the glints
Of flame reflected in the hair,
Expressions on the faces there,

The hot flame blowing down the wind,
The serried line of surf behind,

- Colours, shadows, softly blending,

O’er the clouds the moon ascending

~ Looked so wistful and forlorn—

The things that would your cloth ota

I also saw them, and, enraptured

By the glowing vision captured,

Lost all my sense of Time and Place
And drifted with you into Space,

Where, from afar, as in a dream,

I heard the sound of things unseen:
The flames sang loud in hellish joy,

“We live but once. Destroy! Destroy!”
And sought to reach the trembling trees.
Proud in transient ectasies

The dreams within the embers spoke,
And in and out the twisting smoke

To rhythm of the wind, the beat

Of myriad sparks’ dancing feet

Upon the sand was faintly heard

Like rustlings of a drowsy bird.

It was a golden moment, held.

We stood in rev’rence, both compelled

To silence by the entrancing sight:

Such colours, shawods, tinted light

As viewed by only souls on high—

The fragile beauties that must die

Soon after they are born and leave

Faint memories round which we weave

Our thoughts and dreams in after hours—
Such was the moment that was ours.

Sadly we turned to go. The crowd
Still talked and sang and laughed aloud
But we were silent, for, today,

We’d been a million miles away

And stayed a million years, just you
And I, out there—They never knew.

THE FOURTH
BOOK OF BUNK

CHAPTER 11.

1, And so it has come to pass
that once again the Smiling Faces
hath returned to the Lande of Dal,
and the Campus that for two long
weeks was silent as sleep (except
for the racking of the Branes of the
Profs, as they swung a mighty red
Pensel through the many sheets of
Fools-Cap) is now awake with the
renewed Enthuz-y-azm of the Studes.
They retell the Stor-ees of the past
Vakashun and of the Sukses of the
Eve of the New Year, and of how
many glasses of Cham-Pane, mixed
with other sweet wines of her
Father’s Cellar, were sipped. Then,
with the coming of the Morn, and
the arrival of the New Year, swelled
headsg reeted the Sun, and so, too,
Rezolushions, never to drink of
sweet Nectar again, but to make
1935 happy without the aid of arteefeeshul anaesthetics.

2. But hardly had the new Rezolushuns sprung from the Lips of
the Repentant, when the Annual
Slotter was announced throughout
the kingdom of King Karl by his
wise crier, Muree. Once again the
armies of the Plucked were great,
and, too, as usual, the Med was
named as general, for it was he that
besides Slottering was _§ slottered.
Little Schmeet wounded many in
Path-o-logee, but he completely annihilated the Pullers of the Teeth.
The Roman Ber-Bij, Main-Land the
Lean, and Rheen the Stalwart could
not see him stand alone, so they, |
too, assure the Studes that to take |
time off to play is to invite a Pluck,
and a Med Prof has never yet been
seen to refuse an Invitation.

3. The armee, re-enforced by the
Bear-is-ters and the Dents, marcheth from the Lande of Forrest to
the Campus of Studes, and there
they gather the large numbers from
Philo-so-fee, Physeeks, the classes of
Bennett and many more. Together
they repair to distant lands to for
get, but not to forgive. ’Tis gently

whispered that all the New Year’s
Rezolushuns were broken before
they were hardly two days olde.

4. But in another part of the
Lande the Meds of Dal, who are
now Grads, brought great Honour
to the Leetle College by the Sea.,
for in Xams, where they battled
witsw ith other Meds from far away,
they led rest. Yea verily the Leetle
College houses great men within its
Walls. ’Tis hoped the Plucks of
the present will mean passes for
many who learn from the great
Teacher, Experiens. When the next
struggle in the great Geem arrives
the Meds, as well as the others, will
try to reach the goal set by the
Med Grads—their fellow men.

5. And lo! A great mystery has
shrouded the Lande of Forrest. Dr.
Haze of Bi-oh fame would entitle it
“The Mystery of the Frog”. When
his Frogs for Bi-oh Lab arrived the
box appeared to have been tampered
with, and when the valuables were
counted, lo, one was missing. All
eyes sought the culprit.

6. Almost at the same time there
arrived amidst the Studes of the
Law a small creature which hopped
and which seemed to answer the
description of the lost animal. Much
Interest was seen in the class-room,

and the learned Crows felt that the |

interest was not taken in the Lextur. Even

interested in glancing at the floor

iand the Little Merle uttered groans |
and almost Squeeked and _ turned!

Pr eee

BALLING

HIM OUT!

Of course he’s annoyed. But—after the
game—when he !ights
up a Turret! {t’s then
he’ll realize the goal of
smoking enjoyment.:
For Turret Cigarettes
always score. They
keep a man right in
the play for full time
satisfaction.

Quality and Mildness

urret

CIGARETTES

SAVE THE

POKER HANDS

Imperial! Tobacco Company of Canada, Limited.

pale as the frog came closer and

| closer.

But it was caught and re| turned to its owned, but the culprit

Halifax Transfer

’|remained unfound. It was rumoured,

however, that the

little creatur
knew its fate, and learning of its

eect koe

destination felt so small that it was
then able to crawl out from between

the cracks in the. box.

It then

sought refuge with the Noble profession who do not practice in the

wickedness of vivi-sectun in the
hope that it would gain its freedom, but all its plans were frustrated as the brave Thomp-Son picked

FRASER BROS.
TAXI

up the heavy load and returned it

to the Lab of Haze.
honour of the Stude of Law.

OBSERVER

Here are some suggestions ObserWhy does
Dawson always make

would like answered.
Professor

Such is the

25c. Rate

On all Student call.

B-6070

such a rumpus in the library? Why
was Kay Fogo the first girl to return to the Hall? Where did Ted
Crease get that prison number
(1932) on his raincoat? Why does
Burns Adams whisper aloud to
himself when he is working in the
library? Why is the Freshman P.
T. class carried on in such seclusion, and what made Walter Murphy and Evelyn Gesner so out of

Service

At your

HALIFAX TAXI CO.
B-7376

Lowest Rate to Students.

 

Thomp-Son and _ the|
learned Editor of the Gax-Jett were |

wind after Monday’s class?

Why do the “Hall” girls dislike
eating at Miss MacKeen’s table?
Has Erin Russell been drinking

mercurochrome ?

Student’s Special

SUITS or TOPCOATS
perfectly dry cleaned
and pressed

$1.25

Sponged and Pressed, 45c.
Called for and delivered.

Telephone Lorne 2323.

e 9 e 2
Cousins’ Limited
Dry Cleaners - Dyers - Tailors

“None better—anywhere”

 

 

llionaires Third Annual Ball .°:

 

The
Canterbury Room

While students were at
home during the summer
The Green Lantern made

a decided change in dec
 

orating The Canterbury
100m. | Cosy and very

nice,

The Green Lantern

 

 

‘i

 

|

TICKETS: $3.00. $2.00 SINGLE

Obtainable at University Store
or any member of Committee.

; : Laurie Hart and his 9 Piece Orchestra. |

Novelties—Floor Show—Specialties.

Nova Scotian Hotel -- Wednesday, January, 16, 9 p.m.

 
 

‘

 

 

 
  

Canadian featherweight champion

-James Magonet, John Glorioso, Ed.

1 y Team Prospects
Are Brighter This Year

Days of Big Jim Recalled.
The rhythmical tapping of the punching bag, the vibrat
 

ing retort of heavy punches on said bag, the regular patter of

ipping feet, and the sharp slash of leather against human
fee al provide music to the soul of lovers of the ancient and

gory art of boxing when the Dalhousie team commences its

initial workout on Friday evening.

At 7.30 in the lower Gym candi- continuing for two more rounds to
dates will parade before the watch-|whip his opponent with one hand,
tecton Ge oy Cudenoue, Tormer| = - - =.

and Jack MacDonald, former professional star, who subdued the famed Johnny Odo when Odo was at
his height. Candidates will include
stars of past Dal teams, such as

Arab, Vic Kyte,and Harry Gaum,
with several newcomers, including
Fred Forrestal, one time bantamweight champion of Sydney, and
Jack Victor, of the U. S. A., rugged
Dental students, who require further outlet for their pain inflicting
desires.

The familiar features of Jim Mc
 

“BIG JIM”

Leod, for over five years a member

_of the Dalhousie squad, and during

practically all of them an intercollegiate champion, will be missing
from this year’s lineup. Although
lost by graduation, the exploits of
Big Jim will be long remembered in
Dalhousie’s boxing history. His
winning the heavyweight championship after dislocating his right hand,
caused by a hard smash at his opponent’s jaw in the first round, and

CITY LEAGUE BASKETBALL

Dalhousie Tigers, Seniors and Intermediate are now in training for
the opening of the leagues, the Intermediate Section starting January
17, while the Seniors not getting
away until the 31st.

The following list of nine players
has been issued as possible members
of the 1935 Dal Seniors—Charlie
Anderson, Bill Gladstone, Don Bauld,
Sam Fairstein, Mit Musgrave, Doug
and Ted Crease, Ernie Richardson
and Oscar Serlin The quintette to
take on Acadia in the opening league
game looks exceptionally strong,
with the possibilities of repeating

last year’s success highly probable.

Practices are being held tri-weekly.
Monday, Wednesday and Friday,
from one to two.

Wanderers, Halifax Y. M. C. A.,
Acadia and Dalhousie will comprise
the Senior Section. The Intermediate League will have the following

his getting up out of a sick bed to
go on and trim the hard-slugging
Bucky Meagher, of St. F. X., will
long be remembered by followers
of the game.

The fact that Mike Hinchey, St.
F. X.’s slugging Irishman, will be
out, together with his former stablemate, “Little Ford Fauntelroy”,
McGillivary, lightweight champion
for four years, have made the Dal
prospects the brightest in years.

Arts and Science vs. Pine Hill.
King’s vs. Freshmen.
Dentistry vs. Commerce.
Medicine vs. Arts and Science.
Pine Hill vs. Kings.

Freshmen vs. Dentistry.

Law vs. Commerce.

Arts and Science vs. Kings.
Medicine vs. Pine Hill.
Freshmen vs. Commerce.
Dentistry vs. Kings.

Law vs. Arts and Science.

- Medicine vs. Commerce.

Pine Hill vs. Dentistry,
Freshmen vs. Law.

Kings vs. Medicine.

Arts and Science vs. Commerce.
Dentistry vs. Law.

Pine Hill vs. Freshmen.
Kings vs. Commerce,

Medicine vs. Dentistry.

Arts and Science vs. Freshmen.
Law vs. Kings.

Pine Hill vs. Commerce.

Arts and Science vs. Dentistry.
Medicine vs. Freshmen.

Pine Hill vs. Dentistry.

 

GIRLS’ BASKETBALL

teams, King’s, Tech, Halifax Y. M.| With the passing of a rule that

C. A., Wanderers,
Halifax Academy.

 

Interfaculty Basketball Schedule.
Dentistry vs. Arts and Science.
Law vs. Medicine.

Commerce vs. Freshmen.

Law vs. Dentistry .

Medicine vs. Arts and Science.
Dentistry vs. Freshmen.

Law vs. Arts and Science.
Medicine vs. Commerce.

Arts and Science vs. Freshmen.
Law vs. Commerce.

Medicine vs. Freshmen.
Dentistry vs. Commerce,

Law vs. Freshmen.

Medicine vs. Dentistry.

Arts and Science vs. Commerce.
Interfaculty Softball Schedule.
Law vs. Medicine.

Dalhousie and|City League

Teams must have
amateur cards, Dal Co-Eds were
placed in a difficult position. It
would be simple enough for them to
obtain the cards and play in the City
League, but the amateur cards prohibit them from playing in leagues
without cards—as the Maratime Intercollegiate League.

Mt. Allison Co-Eds, members of
the Intercollegiate, are unwilling to
take out cards thus forcing Dal CoEds to choose between the City or
Intercollegiate League. At present
Dal favors the College league but it
is hoped that some arrangement
will be made whereby they can play
in both leagues.

 

Chair Of Journalism
Suggested For Dalhousie

To Replace Department of Erotics.

How will the recent bequest of
O. E. Smith to Dalhousie be expended? That is a question occupying the minds of many campus
dwellers. With the will stipulating
the money be spent for some distinct purpose (meaning not for current expenses), it is probable a new

chair will be created.

And that is what the big argument is about: what department
will be increased. Classics and
Chemistry are among the top-liners.
Another favorite with one intellectual group is the establishment of
a new departmment—a department
of Journalism.

Today a Canadian has to go to
England or the United States for
such a course, and many do. Schools
of Journalism has been established

aK in many universities, the most suc
cessful being those of the University
of London, Columbia University, and
the University of Missouri.

A course in Journalism could be
very similar to an Arts course,
with certain special classes relating
to newspaper work. Actual experience for the students could be obtained from the Halifax and other
Maritime papers during the summers, while the students would look
after the Dalhousie Gazette and
other college publications while college was in session.

The popularity of journalism is
seen from the large numbers of
students enrolled for the course in
other colleges. There are no such
schools in Canada at the present
time, and the inauguration of one
at Dalhousie would attract a number of new students.

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

SPORT REVIEW

By TED CREASE.

During 1934 Dalhousie held the City Intercollegiate Hockey
title, the Maritime Senior Basketball crown, the City Senior
Swimming championship, the Maritime Intercollegiate Tennis
title, and the Halifax American Football championship. The
loss of the Boxing tournament was disappointing, but the Tiger
mitt slingers put up a stellar performance and came within an
ace of victory. The college football entry was a disappointing
flop, so bad, in fact, that it will be many years before rugger
becomes Dalhousie’s premier sport interest. Hopes and prospects for 1935 are not unusually bright, but anything can
happen.

The hockey squad has held its initial workouts under the
experienced eye of Coach Jack Buckley, ineligible to play this
year. The loss of Hal Connor and Jack Grant will also be keenly
felt by the champion sextette.

Interfaculty softball began on Wednesday evening under
supervision of Ernie Richardson. Judging from the brand of
ball doled out in pre-Christmas exhibition games, this league
will offer plenty of competition and should prove mighty interesting.

Interfaculty hockey is due to start shortly. The Commerce squad set something of a record last year by playing two
and losing two. No member of the team passed centre ice except in changing goals between periods.

Followers of the mat and glove games will see action
shortly in dual meets with Halifax Y. M. C.A. Dal will also
enter the aquatic championships against the “Y” and H. C. A.
natators.

The Bengal basketballers started regular practices on Monday and showed little effect of the long layoff. The boys have
not yet shown the form which carried them to the Maritime
title last year, but it is hoped that they will regain it by the
time the opening contest with Acadia falls due on January 30.
The Intermediates play their first game next week.

Don Bauld and Mit Musgrave, playing for the All Stars
against Y. M. C. A. on New Year’s Day, showed real form and
accounted for 19 points between them.

Efforts are being made to secure basketball games with
Mount Allison and other teams prior to the league opening.

Will Scrap Hockey Team

One of the major issues which comes up for considerable
discussion each year among the Dal Students is the expenditures allotted to the different branches of the various sports.
Each year the cry is raised that there is far too much money
spent on football and that the obvious lack of interest in the
team displayed by most of the students would warrant the Student Council cutting the expenditure to about half of what is
usually estimated.

Now we learn from a prominent member of the D.A.A.C.
that there is some grounds for the rumour floating around the
college, that our hockey team may be abandoned in so far as
City or Intercollegiate competition is concerned and that the
players interested will have to content themselves with interclass competition.

The wiseness of such a move is a moot question so it would
be well before such drastic action is taken to sound the students
for their opinions on the matter.

In speaking to one of our graduates who for the past five
years has been connected with the Dal Hockey Team, the Gazette reporter was informed that the only times the fans have
turned out to support their team, were when the rink had been
engaged as a Dal skating night.

The situation as it now stands is that large sums are spent
annually on Hockey at Dalhousie, and with the exception of
about twenty-five students none of the odd thousand could say
more then that they had heard there was a Dal Hockey Team.

 

 

  

Sporting Activities

 

January 11, 1935

Claudette

Colbert

Warren
William
. in Fannie Hurst’s ver
dant Novel of Two Women—
one white, one Black...

CASINO

Saturday, Monday, Tues.

Murder in The
Clouds

with
LYLE TALBOT

and

ANN DVORAK
Plus Four Shorts.
LAUREL and HARDY

ee

The Live Ghosts

POPEYE CARTOON
SUPERSTITION OF THE
BLACK CAT.
METRONE NEWS

D. A. A.C. Studies Plans |
For Changing Constitution

Officials of the D.A.A.C. confirm the report that this year
a determined effort will be made to straighten out the constitution of that body. During the past few years every meeting
has shown more clearly the inadequacy of the principles that
govern the D.A.A.C.

Within the next week or so a special meeting of the Club
will be called for the purpose of securing permission from the
Student Body to go ahead with the task. The committee will
then draw up the amendments at their bi-weekly meetings and
the results of their efforts are to be published in the “Gazette’’.
It is understood that all new by-laws will then be open to criticism and any corrections suggested by the students will be
appreciated. In this way when the revised Constitution is
brought up at the Annual Meeting in March its contents will be

Imitation of
Life

FRIDAY, SAT., MON.

 

nn

BASKETBALL

Basketball is to have a six team
league with a schedule of 15 games.
The games to be played from 12 to
1 o’clock on Tuesdays and Thursdays, subject to change. Due to Intermediate Basketball practices the
schedule is temporarily postponed.
Medicine, Dentistry, Law, Arts and
Science, Commerce and Engineers,
and Freshman will make up the
League.

The following representatives were
present at the meeting—Medicine,
Bud Peters, Carl Stoddard; Dentistry, Ken Cougle; Law, Bill Davis,
Fraser Bentley, Bob MacLellan;
Arts and Science, Milt Musgrave,
Hal Johnson; Commerce, Don Bauld;
Freshmen, R. Rirst, Doug. Lyall;
Engineers, Lou Petrie.

 

SWIMMING

All swimmers are requested to
watch the notice board as to practice dates for the team. The City
Swimming Championships are to be
held on January 19th, at the “Y”
pool with Dalhousie as defending
Champions—under the management
of George Murphy. Tom Rogers,
former Acadia diving star has indicated an intention to turn out and
should be an asset to the Tigers.

 

 

Pine Hill Continues Winning Streak

The Theologs easily won over the
ever-enthusiastic Arts & Sc. team by
a wide margin of 14 runs. Two big
innings gave them the victory with
a half dozen runs in the second and
a final inning. spurt of nine runs
found them far in the lead. Bruce
Fergusson opposed MacKenzie on
the mound but the heavy slugging
Theologs were too much for the
Cape Bretoner, while MacKenzie
with good support and strong pitching was superior to his opponent.
Even more credit goes to the winning pitcher as he chalked up five
runs in addition to being the winning moundsman. Abe Becker showed well behind the plate for the
losers.

Line-up:Arts & Se.—J. Carrol, 1b;
B. Fergusson, p.; E. Stweart, 2b; Abe
Mackles, Lf.; A. Becker, s.s. and ¢.;
W. Horowitz, 3b.; E. Preiss, ¢, s.s.;
R. Homans, r.f.; H. Rae e.f.;

Pine Hill—D. McLeod, c.; G. MacKenzie, p,; L. Millar, 1b; J. MacLean, 2b.; Gordon, 3b; H. Watts,
s.s.; K. MacQuarrie, 1f.; S. MacDonald, r.f.; D. Darrach, r.f.

Professor Julian Huxley is slated
to give a public address at the Lord
Nelson Hotel, tomorrow evening.
Dal students are advised to attend.

 

familiar to everybody.

Steps have already been taken to| which through time-honoured cussecure information on the subject|tom operates to the complete ignor
from other colleges. The President
has communicated with every important university in the Dominion
and to date copies of the constitutions from Alberta, McGill and Western Ontario Universities have been
received. These institutions, all of
which are larger than Dalhousie,
should have ideas that may be
adopted in whole or in part for our
needs.

The question of awards is one of
the points which will receive, no
doubt, a great deal of attention. An
effort, it is suggested, should most
certainly be made to restore the importance of the once highly sought
for Dal “D”. Minor awards may
also be proposed, and if so, members of intermediate teams, who
really make or break the senior
squad according to the amount of
practice which they can give, will
receive their award.

The Field Account is another item

Med. Subdues Law

The lawyers have failed to shake
the ill-luck of the Pre-Xmas league
as they added another to their list
of defeats. Harold Davidson again
led the doctors off to a good start
in the league opener with a seven
run margin to their credit.

Du Bubilier, at third for the winners, wielded a big bat to give his
team five tallies also being the big
run-getter in the game. LAW started away with 3 runs which the victors tied in the second. Each team
added two in the third—then the
Meds staged a merry-go-round of
ten runs in the last of the fourth.
From then on Law was no longer a
threat and were easily kept from
heavy scoring. Fraser Bentley was
high run-getter for the losers with
4 runs.

Medicine, however, were playing
two men short which may have been
an advantage in that good batters
more frequently came to bat. Teams
in the future should be made to play
an even number of players to allow
such a condition not arising again.
Too much credit cannot however, be
given to the heavy batting of the
Meds,

Lineup: Law—aA. Thurlow, r. f.;
M. Hinchey, 2b.; Don Ross, p.; F.
Bentley, 3b.; John Godwin, 1b.; Ian
Ross, ¢.; Bob McLellan, 8.8.3; I, Pink,
c.f.; Nate Green, Lf.

Meds.—H. Davidson, p.; Bob MeLellan, ¢., S. Miller, l.f.;! Abe Epstein, 1b.; Ben DubBilier, 38b.; Carl
Stoddard, r.f.; K. Garten, 2b.

Umpires: Jim Payne at plate;
Ron Robinson bases.

Don’t Forget You Have a
Social Engagement

January 28

(P. M.)
Watch for Further Notice.

ance of most students. Under this
arrangement the University very
“kindly” purchases basketballs, badminton nets and rackets, repairs the
bleechers and keeps the rugby field
in condition, and then at the end of
each year sends the bill to the Students’ Council. It is expected that
in the future the D. A. A. C. will
control the spending of our funds
for the purchase of equipment and
maintenance. These and many
other questions will be thrashed out
within the next few months.

This year’s Executive and Managing Committee are to be complimented for their work during the
last term. They relieved the Council of the tiresome cutting of athletic budgets, consequently giving it
more time for other matters. And
so it is to be hoped that the students
will endorse and co-operate in the
remodelling of the Constitution.

Tigers Hold First

Practical Session

On Monday afternoon the candidates for the Dal. hockey team donned their skates for the first practice
session of the current season. While
the initial turnout was rather small,
yet the form flashed by those present indicates that the coach will have
no trouble picking a first class team.

The teams weakest point appears
to be the goal tender. Vic Kyte,
the “find” of last year, will be out
of the game because of the effects
of an injury during the football season, and the management will find
it hard to replace the stocky Cape
Bretoner.

Doug. Bent, captain of last year’s
team will again be the mainstay of
the defence, while Captain Cooke,
Bryant and B. Stanfield will be the
brunt of the attack.

Among the new players that
showed up well were Patton, Godwin, Fergusson and P. Stanfield.

 

SOFTBALL

A six game schedule for games
this week was drawn up giving a
good start to a long schedule of 28
games. Engineers were given the
right to play with either the Commerce or Dentistry Teams. A system for the play-offs was left till a
later date.

G.A McDonald |

TOBACCONIST

 

 

 

Smokers’ Requisites of Every
Description.

A Complete Stock of
CIGARS, CIGARETTES,

TOBACCO & BRIAR PIPES.

21 Spring Garden Road
Halifax

 

 
