    
  
  
 
  
 

  
  
 
  

*

  

Something
To Think About

There has been much destructive
criticism cast upon the Council and
the Alpha Gamma Delta sorority as
a result of the proposed Dalhousie
night at the Capitol Theatre. Like
everything else the same people who
criticize everything at Dalhousie are
criticizing this excellent even though
pecuniary gesture on the part of a
group of energetic young ladies.

There is nothing wrong with having a Dalhousie Theatre Night—
there are not enough of them, and
regardless of the motive behind such
a move, it is certainly one which will
foster the gathering of students to
have a good time among themselves.

Too, in regard to those backbiters
it is suggested that they will be the
not only the first to attend such an
eyent, but the first to laud and
praise it should it prove successful.

Good luck girls—you are establishing an excellent precedent.

  

 

It seems that the world no sooner
gets over one wave of fear and
source of trouble, when another
arises. Last week it was the Saar
plebiscite—this week it is fresh rumors of more trouble in the far
East. In Asia Japanese Manchukian
troops were reported massing on the
Jehol border ready to invade Chinese
province of Chahar. The sinister
part of it is that it not only effects
the far East but it effects the whole

world. Where will it all end?

  

 

Sean O’Casey’s play “Within the
Gates” which was presented on the
ew York Stage some months ago
with great success has been banned
in Boston. The feud is raging between Professor Dana, grandson of
the poet Longfellow, a former instructor at Columbia University, and
the police commissioner and mayor
of Boston who after reading the
book decreed that its sale should be
prohibited in that city, and further
that the play should not be presented in any theatre in Boston. The
play is one of the many books in the
Dalhousie Book Club.

It is suggested that the book will
now be in popular demand at the
University.

It looks like Reilly, Hauptmann’s
defence counsel is on the spot, latest
rumors have it that he is stumped
and cannot get around the case for
the prosecution and that he is play
ing his last card—the plea of insan
~

B toes
q # i
(Oe

   
  
 

ui
ey *

Bt

se

es
an <a
f 
J i
5
Te.

ity on the part of his client.

Whether or not the State is gullible enough to swallow that suggestion remains to be seen.

 

On Friday night McGill University
defeated University of New Brunswick in the radio debate conducted
by the Canadian Radio Commission.
This Friday night Messrs. Pink and

Richardson represent Dalhousie in

an oral contest with U. N. B., if they
win, they debate the following week
with McGill to place in Eastern
Canadian section. Best of luck boys
—we know you can do it and we'll
all be listening.

 

Franz Werfel’s heroic novel “The
Forty Days of Musa Dagh has taken
the United States by storm. There
have been no less than five printings
in four weeks. Yet there is not a
copy to be secured in any library in

the city. Another example of conServativeness of Canadians — or
what?

 

_ INTERMEDIATE BASKETBALL

King’s ys. Dalhousie
Thursday, at Studley.

  

, r =e

 

Ei antl notamment
phate >

7 oe ——t  .
ome £)) - a ae
ro '

i 7

Official Student Publication

iz

 

HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA, JANUARY 24, 1935

Mock Parliament Interests

Dal’s Budding Barristers

Plans for the revival of the famous old Mock Parliament

were well under way today as party leaders determined
policies and party whips scoured the Law School for more
members. This year’s parliament, the first since 1933, will
be run on serious lines, 25% fun and 75% politics as one
sponsor put it. At present there are three parties In the
running: Conservatives, Liberals and Independent, each ot

““S at Dalhousie University

  

No. 13

 

 

Offered Dal Students

With the announcement of the Exchange Scholarships for 1935-36, a
limited number of students at Dal
ousie have the opportunity of obtaining a year’s scholarship at some
other Canadian university. These
scholarships, which are sponsored by
the National Federation of Canadian
University Students, enable students

Exchange Scholarship |[rate Sorority Sisters

Denounce Gazette Editors

Developments moved quickly last week following the
Gazette editorial on the proposed Theatre Night as angered
womanhood asserted itself. The President of the Student’s
Council was called; so were the editors of the Gazette. It
was explained the profits of the evening would not go to
paying off old bills but to charity. The Gazette editorial
was “‘untair, very unfair and created a wholly wrong im
which claim one of the three lady law students.

 

EX-DEAN OF LAW
SCHOOL TO VISIT

President S. E. Smith of the University of Manitoba is expected to
visit Halifax over the week end or
about the first of next month. The
former Dean of the Law School will
be here to administer the estate of
the late O. E. Smith and will either
voluntarily spend some time there or
be dragged in by rejoicing former
pupils.

Interfraternity
Council Planned

For Dalhousie

With delegates from every fraternity on the Dalhousie campus
attending, proposals for an interfraternity council here were discussed
last Sunday afternoon at a meeting
in the joint chapter house of Phi
Delta and Delta Sigma Pi.

Definite decision as to the advisability of organizing such a council
will be made this Sunday after
representatives have reported the
plans to their respective fraternities.

Desire to foster closer bonds with
the university faculty and among
fraternities themselves assumed
leading positions in the discussions
advanced in favor of an interfraternity council.

The idea is not new. Moves toward such a council had been made
in 1932 by Phi Kappi Pi and in the
following year by Sigma Chi. It has
also been advocated by John Fisher
of Delta Sigma Pi for several years.
The preliminary stages, however,
have never been passed.

Other plans discussed by the meeting in the view of the establishment
of a council included co-operative
buying, organized rushing, intermural sports, and exchange of members for meals.

Several contended the council
would make for closer bonds between
fraternities, put fraternalism in a
better light to outsiders by removing
the idea they were nothing more
than cliques, and remove many other
abuses.

Eric “Spec” Murray was elected
chairman of the meeting.

Including Phi Delta Phi and Delta
Sigma Pi, fraternities represented
included Sigma Chi, Phi Kappa Pi,
Phi Delta Theta, Phi Rho Sigma,
Phi Chi, Tau Epsilon Phi, Phi Delta
Epsilon and Alpha Omega.

S.C. M. Sponsor

Lecture Series

The S. C. M. is sponsoring a series
of talks by men well known around
Dal on “My Philosophy of Life” in
which they are asking each speaker
to tell what is, for him the most important thing in life, the thing or
things he lives by.

Jan. 27—Prof. George E. Wilson,
History.

Feb. 3—Mr. Beverley Oaten, National 8. C. M. Secretary.

Feb. 10—Prof. George
Law.

Feb. 17—Dr. Benge Atlee, Medicine,

Feb. 24—Two students.

March 3—Dr. J. A. Clark, St.
Matthew’s Church>

These meetings will be for students only, and will be held in the

 

 

Curtiss,

Parlor of St. Andrew’s Church Hall, sporting end of the class a

on Sunday evenings at 8:30.

A gallery will be provided for
non-Law students interested in
watching proceedings.

The Parliament’s date of opening
has yet to be announced, but is expected shortly. It will last three
nights, during the first two of which
the Conservatives, by agreement,
will form the government, and present legislation similar to that being presented at Ottawa. Professor
George Curtis will sit in the Speaker’s chair, hat and all; Prof. George
Crouse will be clerk, but who will be
Governor-General is not known.
Party leaders take it for granted
Dean V. C. McDonald will take the
position. Dean McDonald smiles
and says, “I hope the position will
be filled by a bigger man than I.”
Law students take this personal reference only in its physical meaning,
but a promise of “more colour”
leaves them curious.

The Conservatives, in party caucus, elected Horace Hanson party
leader. He will be supported by opposition feared Johnny. Fisher,
Merle Purtill, Roger Rand, Doug
'Crease and others. Fisher assures
the Gazette the intellectuals have
joined the Conservative party en
masse. Their programme will be
one of reform.

Liberal leader Roy Laurence, Lord
of Margaree, was selected to lead
his party at a caucus from which
the writer was barred. It seems he
will be supported by Leo Landreville
and Quaco Fraser Bently, who assures the Gazette the intellectuals
have joined the Liberal party en
masse. The Liberal programme will
follow that of Mr. King and will attack high tariffs.

Dark horses of the race, the Independents, led by Ian Ross, are the
fear of the two other parties. Captained by a former staunch Tory,
‘they have picked up radicals from
both parties until their size threatens to shadow their older rivals.
Their programme of a square deal
for everyone will be presented by
Eddie Arab, Ted “Volcano” Byrne,
Boyd “Lord Fauntelroy” McGillivray
and possibly Marg. Dunsworth. Eddie assures the Gazette the intellec| tuals have joined the Independents
en masse.

 

 

 

NOTICE

The Theatre Arts Guild announces
that on the first night of all major
productions seats may be obtained
upon application at the playhouse.
Dal students, not members, may get
seats at a lower price, 50 cents.

The next major production opening February 4, is the French
Comedy, “A Scrap of Paper.”

Class ’38 Meets

Attaining no particular end, a few
members of Class ’88 gathered on
Tuesday noon in Room 8 of the Arts
Building for a class meeting with a
view to discussing plans for a class
dance. It was eventually decided to
resume the matter next Tuesday.

The plans at present are to hold a
dance in the lower Gym on Feb. 13
or 14 with either five or nine pieces
of Laurie Hart’s orchestra. Of the
few present, Bill Moss, George Robertson, Fred Barton and Murray
Gould were the principal ones in
favor of the affair. David Maclellan
opposed the proposal, suggesting
that a little support be given the
ctivities

 

rather than to the dance.

to study at an “exchange” university
for one year without paying tuition
fees or Students’ Union Fees. The
N. F. C. U. S. representative on this f : F
campus is George C. Thompson, and nolly, thirty minutes of student enprospective applicants can obtain tertainment will be presented at the
full details from him. Further de- Capitol Theatre, Monday, Feb. at,
tails and advice may be obtained between showings of “The Flirtation
from Prof. George Curtis at the Law Walk”, featuring Dick Powell and
Schnol: , the young lady always referred to
The Exchange of Undergraduates | local dailies
Plan was initiated about seven years | Ruby Keeler”.
ago by the executive of the N. p, | Dartmouth).
C. U. S., and came into operation |

as “Halifax’s
(She was born

own

pression on the campus’’ said one young lady.
plans to make the show a success go on.
Under the direction of Joe Con-;

in

Final arrangements for the Dal- |

: ‘ housie part have not been made, but |
Six years ago after the presidents, P = P ‘rs

registrars and financial authorities it was learned that Bill Stevens,

; : ye whose singing captured a place in|
of the Canadian universities had . eee weet a |
kded: tine Dalhousie’s hearts last fall, will be

given their consent.

plan the universities are divided in- | on the stage along with the Pine|

Hill trio—Hardie Watts,

to four groups—the University of |
British Columbia, the universities of |
the Prairie Provinces, the universi- |
tties of Ontario and Quebec, and the
universities of the Maritimes. Scholarships may be awarded only where
a student of one university wishes
to obtain a scholarship at a university in a different “division”. This
is subject to one exception—Ontario
students may apply for scholarships
to FrenchCanadian universities in
Quebee for the purpose of taking
special studies in the French language and vice versa.

Any student, male or female, may
apply if he is, at the time of his application, in the second year of his
course or, in the case of five year
courses, in the second or third year.
It is a condition of each appointment that the Exchange Scholar
must return, at the conclusion of his
scholarship year, to complete his
course at his “home” university.

Hart and his orchestra, in a _ free
advertisement, will play the latest
dance pieces. Other sororities, it is

their talent.

chosen, with either Connolly or Len
Bishop, Capitol Theatre manager,
expected to fill the position. After
the show, a dance will be held at the
Green Lantern, with Laurie’s orchestra. Advance sale of tickets will
begin soon.

Criticisms of the Gazette’s editorial came in almost as soon as
last week’s issue had been published,
While other sororities chuckled as
other sororities would, members and
alumnae advisors of the Alpha Gamma Delta asked fairer treatment and

: a clearing up of the matter. Boy
es a Sophomore taking friends, former and present big
the usual four-year Arts course may shots on the Gazette and other

be awarded a scholarship for his

celebrities, joined
third year; in the case of five-year

the chorus, de
manding editorial apologies and the

courses ; Ss arshi < ~ .

4 the scholarship may be! Gazette’s support in backing the
awarded either for the third or scheme. From it all, it was ¢ t}
vA . ™ ° « jas a =
fourth year. The scholarships are Sen

ered the proceeds will go to maintaining the sorority’s two Summer
Camps for underprivileged children,
one in United States and one in Canada, at Welland, Ontario.

Glee Club Scraps
One Act Play

The ghost has been laid. It is understood that dramatic activities for
the remainder of the year have been
drastically curtailed.

One-act plays are out from now
on insofar as they can be made so
without treading on toes. Plans of
the Glee Club stage stage crew, Phi

particularly easy to arrange in the
Arts pass course.

An Exchange Scholar is expected
to be a representative student of
his “home” university in every way.
It is not necessary that he should
have a first-class academic standIng, but he must be a competent
student who will be able to enter
freely into the life of the “exchange” university without fear of
class-room consequences.

About sixty-two students have received Exchange Scholarships during the past six years. This year a
total of seven are enjoying the
privileges of the Exchange Plan—
one at McGill, one at Queen’s, one
at British Columbia, and four at
Toronto. In most cases the saving
in tuition fees more than balances
the transportation costs involved.
Applications must be handed in to
the N. F. C. U. S. representative before March ist, 1935.

Edith Blair, now studying at
Queen’s, Kingston, is the only Dalhousie student now taking advantage of the exchange plan.

given up.

The Glee Club, it is felt, has sponsored all the one-act plays deemed
wise. There will undoubtedly be
more, but not many. The fraternities
mentioned were all said to be hot on
the trail of the dramatic shield open
for competition to any groups of
students desiring to compete, but all
have now given up the idea.

However, the “Ghost Train’, the
Newman Club play with Murray
Ryan’s orchestra about the end of
February, and a musical show on
Munro Day are to be the features
of post-Ghristmas Glee Club activities, and it is certain that these
tures of post-Christmas Glee Club
activities, and it is certain that these
two entertainments in themselves
will be all that-is necessary to assure the executive of the highest
commendation for their work during
| 1934-1935.

——

ENGINEERING NOTES

A meeting of the Engineering
Society was held in the drafting
room on Friday, Jan. 18, with Doug
Bent in the chair. The purpose of
the meeting was to elect a hockey
manager, Melville C. Rose being
chosen,

The first hockey practice for the
Engineers will be held on Thursday,
and Manager Rose expects to put on
the ice a team which will bring back
the Interfaculty Championship to the |
Boilermakers.

George |
'McLean and Gard Ward. Jean Fitz-!
Gerald and Charlotte Murphy will do |
a dance number. In addition, Laurie.

Meanwhile,

 

Comm.-Eng. Ball
Went In Hole

Information relayed from usually authentic scurces tells that the
Boilermakers-Millionaires’ Ball of
Wednesday night and Thursday
morning last was a financial loss
to the extent of $20—at least.

It is understood that the managing committee feel that they
might have realized a small profit
if the little appreciated frills had
been eliminated.

The attendance was 187. Last
year 319 were present. Programs,
novelties, ete., were purchased beforehand on last year’s basis.

 

Gym Regulations

thing after all.

Lh, “SSS

a SS

said, have seized upon the Gazette's’
criticism to refuse to support with '
The Master of Cere-'
monies for the evening has yet to be’

Enforced at Last

The no-smoking regulations in the
Gymnasium apparently mean someAt least that is the
concensus of five students who were
seen smoking on Thursday last by
one of the professors, and who were
duly reported to the proper authorities. Minimum sentence, $2 fine.

The students concerned included
amongst those caught were: John
Dacey, Warren Beazley, Rudd Hattie
and W. M. Gould.

The regulations seem to be fully
justified, for when students will be
so unthinking as to smoke in defiance of them in a place where there
are costly drapes, they surely should
be punished. They are permitted to
smoke in the locker rooms. It seems
strange that they should choose to
ignore this and to deliberately smoke
not only where it is not allowed, but
where their own common sense
ought to tell them that if the drapes
were burnt, they would be the ones
who would have to pay for it.

Shirreff Hall Notes

Although not current news, the
visit of ‘Mahatma Ghandi’ and Betty
Boop’ to Shirreff Hall a week or So
ago ,should not escape publication.

 

 

It seems that even such things as
ordinary crabs can cause ruction
among the inmates of the Hall.

Why are so many Hall girls going
on liquid diets?

Skiing and skating seem to be tak
[ing up a good part of the girls time.

Rho Sigma, Sigma Chi, and Phi| Phe gentlemen had best watch their
Kappa Pi to present plays have been | !aurels.

Fran Howe, though greatly missed
on the other floors, is getting pretty
chummmy with the nurses. Here’s
hoping that the No Visitors sign will
soon be off the Infirmary door.

There seems to be a competition in
lengthy telephone conversations between certain members of the Hall.
Who’ll win?

New Alpha Gamma Delta pins will
soon be in evidence, for the great
excitement in Sorority circles is the
installation of new members to the
groups.

What young gentleman doubted
the ‘pink eye’ version of a certain
young lady’s illness?

Why is it that Hall girls aren’t
represented on the Intermediate
Basketball Team ?

Rumors are rumors, but the latest
one is that two residents in the Hall

| are married.

a

 
   
      

ae torn

he Oldest College Paper in Amierica”’

  
  
     
    

EDITORIAL STAFF

~ 
Bes es Bis yA Editors ait)
ta W. A.
J. ROH. — B. 5827
News Editor signi
ARTHUR MERKEL BILL DAVIS
B. 5108 : sil
Business Manager oe
bee —_ a ARTHUR MEAGHER
Pa WAS ROWLINGS B. 2886

 

 

LITERARY ISSUE

a A college publication such as the Gazette must serve its
readers in z aia capacity, first, as a chronicle of day to day
events in the University, and secondly, in the absence of a stu| journal, as a medium for the literary expressions

eee  dent’s literar
es): SF battbusians in whatever form. In order to give attention to

the function of the Gazette as a newspaper, contributions to its
joo a co usually Bye Ne those possessing value as news,
and not necessarily as literature. :

_ he et Bead contest sponsored by this paper was an
outstanding success—there were three entries. Perhaps the
subjects were not suitable to the talents of our readers. So it
has been proposed that the paper issue a Literary Supplement
in which the embryonic writers can contribute such material as
they desire. It is hoped that this issue will attract contribuce ins of merit and serve to emphasize the fact that the Gazette
ig not solely a newspaper. Any of our readers interested in
Fas writing are urged to send in their contributions before February 8rd. If enough material is on hand at that time, the Gazette
_ will present the Literary Supplement in the issue of February 7.

eee rare
st

Mi,
_

 
    
   
  
    
 
 
 
   
    
     
   
   
   
  
  
  

 

MATURITY

ime in the life of every one of us there Is a period
of eention in which our ee ies attitude toward life
hilosophy of living is altered.
Bee “ Sie ae this change takes place very rapidly, often
-—s eulminating before we leave High School. The average period
of conversion is from the time we enter College to the completion of our first year. Only in rare instances does it necessitate
See a longer time for the callow freshman to adapt himself to at

Pi

a.

‘tease the habits, if not the philosophy, of his fellow students.
bene © nadbeatg of us never “put away our childish things”. | ‘
| Do not imagine for a moment that we are advocating the
ability of having every student behave and live and think
anner common . Far from it. Every man’s phil1d method of living is his own, and should be
ng to attention is the presence among
| dents of a few eccentric individuals who
¢t changed their opinions or habits from their early
bes School days, The lamentable feature is the fact that they
en seem to glory in their variation from the rest of the group and
advertise it by an accentuation of silly habits of dress and af- fectations, by abuses of their uncontrolled freedom, and a some-_ what painfully amusing blasé attitude and facial expression,
typical of the actions of children who think it clever to do odd
| things when their parents are absent.
- Entrance into a University marks the commencement of
a period in which we must develop a seriousness of purpose and
‘also learn how to conduct ourselves properly. Those who fail
to acquire this maturity of outlook, whether from inability or
from rank carelessness, are not only taking upon themselves
a handicap which they can never fully overcome after leaving
the University, but they are the ones who give the College that
annoying “collegiate” appearance and make their presence obnoxious to the other students while they are in attendance.

If the shoe hurts—take it off!

2) | DAL STUDENTS SCORN $1000

Halifax, April 1, (CP): Offer of a
$1000 present to Dalhousie students
was treated with scorn everywhere
on the campus here today. Among
the 800—odd students, there were no
takers, although the offer, in $200
and $100 lots, was made individually
to each student.

Ridiculous? Not exactly, for any newspaper in Canada
could carry the above item and be perfectly truthful in its report. Every year, $1000 is offered Dalhousie students for essays
and poems. Yet scarcely a year passes by without leaving much
of the sum unrewarded—unclaimed generally.

Senator W. H. Dennis yearly offers two prizes of $200, with
second prizes of $100 each for works in prose or poetry. We are
told that often there are no competitors and the first prizes
have seldom been won. Dr. W. I. Morse offers a $250 prize on
historical research, the only restricted prize in the list, and another of $100 for the best essay on a subject he picks each year.

e prize most sought after and most frequently awarded, the
Overseas League Essay Prize, curiously enough is the least remunerative; it pays only $50.

It is an lucky student in these depression days who can
obtain summer employment, and he who can save $100 above

_ living expenses from his summer’s work is even luckier. The
majority of Dalhousie students would work all summer if assured above their cost of living they would have $100 to show for
it in September. But they never seem to find time and effort
to take off a week, at most, to write an essay or poem to compete for prizes.

The Gazette this year offered ten volumes from Every
man’s for the best essay on selected subjects; they were not
awarded. We-were told the prize was worth while; that any

_ student could find ten volumes in Everyman’s worth owning.

___ But only three entries were received. Student pocket books are
reported emptier this year but Nova Scotian independence

wi mi

ad
#

=

 
  
     
  
   
  
  
   
   
   
 
   
  
    
  
   
    
  
  
   
   
  
   
  
    
      
 
    
   
  
   

 

2
me

Lan

we”

ty ething in return. At any rate, it is true that “offer of a
0 present to Dalhousie students was treated with scorn

ere on the campus here today.”

Or

f seems such that students refuse to take money without giving |

ee

EUROPEAN JOURNEY
- Philip Gibbs

European Journey is the description of a tour made by Sir Philip
Gibbs through Europe in the spring
and summer of last year. The author’s plan was to put himself in a
position to lay his finger on the
pulse of the fever tossed Europe
twenty years after the Great War.
Not by contact with the politicians
of the countries he intended to visit
but by Casual Conversation with
that great theme of the politicians—
the people.

Without questioning the author’s

awaredness of the fact, it must be
conceded that such a method has
definite deficiencies if one’s object is
to present a true picture. It is difficult to realize at their true worth
the opinions of a peasant encountered by chance on a roadside on questions involving the hopes and fears
of millions.
To do so, it is necessary to know
what personal colouring lies behind
his reasoning—what are the “figures in his head.” Moreover may it
not be that the peasant is just talking for talkin’s sake. Indeed, outside
the palace of the League of Nations
at Geneva, Sir Philip had thought
that the workman were pulling his
leg. When he asked one of them
what he was building the reply was
immediate—too much so to be sincere — “a new hospital for the
wounded of the next war.” The
cause of the bitterness of these
workmen was discovered by Sir
Philip in posters on the walls of the
new building, some urging strikes in
defence of their threatened wages,
others being Communist manifestos
against capitalism.

However, many will agree that one
is likely to get a truer picture in this
way than by talking to the heads of
the government in the countries
visited, and besides, the motley
crowd with which th author came in
contact should “in toto” give an inkling as to the real conditions existing in these countries.

The innumerable variety of stories
that he hears entirely confuses the
author’s outlook, and he succeeds in
transmitting this frank bewilder-|
ment to his readers. Yet this manner of writing presents a very interesting view of what Europe is today.
It is a series of potraits of confusion. His firm conviction, Sir Philip
tells us, is that Europe is approach-|
ing a crisis rather than recovering
from one.

In France, for example, he finds
tourist trade comparatively non-existent, a serious slump in her exporting industries in trying to sell goods
on a gold standard to countries using a paper currency; Germany is
not the land of promise that Hitler
had envisioned; Italy faces an enormous deficit and her business men
complain of excessive taxes; while
the Swiss, the Hungarians and the
Austrians make no effort to cloak
their anxiety.

Amid such gloomy expressions of
doubts and fears, it is little wonder
that Sir Philip departs from the
world of finance to delight himself
long and joyfully with the beauty of
the country side, and even finding
time for a little historical sightseeing.

Yet, perhaps more important than
his economic and esthetic discoveries
was his probing on the subject of
war. The old woman who sold newspapers at Geneva was the first to
sound the war-note on his journey.

She stressed the futility and
“tragic failure” of the League in a
time when war is growing more imminent daily. “Everyone drags the
eiderdown over his own head”, was
her way of expressing the growing
feeling of nationalism which she
sensed in that meeting-place of the
nations. In Germany the author
finds a slightly different outlook
from what he expected. Germany
does not want war, but she is afraid
of France; any training she may do
is only for defense purposes. There
is no faith in treaties, leagues or
pacts; only whole-hearted reconcilation on the part of France with Germany, at the price of German
equality can raise this persisting
cloud. So thinks the author.

In other countries his impressions
|

Re eT ee

January 24, 1935

 

COUNCIL BUDGETS

Why not publish Council budgets
at the time they are made, so that
students may see how their money
is spent. It is all very well to publish the accounts in the fall, but that
is not enough. Now is the time when
we are interested in how much
money the various sports and organizations are getting. How about it,
Council ?

 

DATE BUREAU

At many American Universities
there are Date Bureaus for the convenience of the undated. The wouldbe swains who can’t find a girl at
8.00 p.m. Saturday night would sing
its praises, if one were established at
Dalhousie. All co-eds would be registered for a small fee. Each would
be classified according to their attainments, characteristics and abilities. The girls when dated would
inform the Bureau of the fact, thus
enabling the Bureau to tell the late
woman-hunter whether the described
one was engaged for the evening.
Think of the anguish spared the student who wants to be sure before
phoning that the girl he has asked
unsuccessfully the last four Saturday evenings is free. The Bureau
woudl charge a small fee for each
date made with higher rates for
blind dates.

Everybody would be happy—the
girl who is called twenty times in an
evening, the girl pining for a date,
the maids at Sherriff Hall, all the
boys, and the Telephone Company.
Perhaps the Students’ Council might
run the Bureau, thus eliminating the
need for any fees, and showing that
they are ready to support the activity which the students find most
popular.

Inter-fraternity Council

These are hard days for nearly
everyone and everything. Fraternities especially find it difficult to keep
in existence and so perhaps the organization meeting of the various
fraternities last week-end will bear
fruit. Fraternities, secret Greek-letter societies, are a hot-bed unless
proper precautions are taken.

As a rule they conflict with one
another in various matters; the
benefits which may be derived from
such an organization are better
known to fraternity men themselves.
It might be a good idea to copv
Columbia in one respect, that is have
the interfraternity board, or PanHellenic council, represent every
fraternity at Dal, meet every so
often with the President or some
other capable college official in the
chair. By this means the college officials keep in close contact with the
fraternities and that personage
stands by at the washing of the
dirty linen of the Greeks—if any.
“Big oaks from little acorns grow”
*tis said, so we wish success to this
new venture.

 

Them Days Have Gone Forever

When there was a college spirit at
Dal—when victories over rival colleges and just plain rivals called for
a snake dance thru the city with the
grand finale of crashing a show—
when Dal theatre nights kept audiences in gales of laughter—when
cannons were moved—when Sophs
put the Frosh in their place—when
interfaculty sport thrived — when
poker was the game — when managers were managers and it was
worth while to make a team—when
Dal had an open air rink—when
there was no such unsightly foundation on the campus—when men were
men and women were something to
dream about—are all now merely
“The stuff that dreams are made of”
and memories. The “good old days”
were not so good—but they were, at

least exciting.
eee

were formed along similar lines. The |
Same main idea pervaded all: the
idea of another war is absurd, yet
the fear of it was everywhere.

Sir Philip has succeeded well in
catching in his description the feeling of confusion which he himself
experienced, and one feels glad that
the work is not wholly political and
economic, but is tempered by intimate pen-portraits of villages, cities,
inns and market places, as well as
by realistic accounts of the many
trivial happenings such as give to all
stories of travel their distinctive
appeal.

 

 

 

POET’S CORNER

Two translations from Heinrich Heine.
THE SIRENS

I do not know just what it means,

This ancient story, still, I find

That every night it fills my dreams ‘
And through the day it will not leave my mind:

   

The air is cool as day departs

The shadows steal across the sea,

While one cold star above imparts

Some of its silent loneliness to me.
With steady hands we guide our boats
Past jagged reefs where waters roar,
A peal of tinkling laughter floats

To me—a sound that I have heard before.
All curious then, I swing my skiff,
Unmindful of the current’s whirl,

And see upon a near-by cliff

The enticing figure of a lovely girl.

Tall and slim as a willow tree,

Fit to be consort to a king,

Her glance vibrates with mystery,

She smiles to me and then begins to sing
A song of passion at its height

That sets my hungry soul afire, _

That seems to tell me that I might
Take and do with her just as I desire.

A wild, mad urge sweeps over me—

I long to take her in my arms—

As that sensuous melody

Extols to me her unforbidden charms.
How should I know a Siren called?

I set my course with quickened breath—
Infatuated, held enthralled,

I speed across to her, to her and Death.

MIRIAM

You are, to me, just like a flower,
So pure and beautiful and sweet.
Your very presence has the power
To make my share of joy complete.

I long to take you in my arms

And softly pray to God on High,

That He will keep you from all harms,
For Innocence should never die.

 

son takes out his seven wives.

It All Comes Out
In The Wash

By WALTER WRINSEWELL

 

Flash—Scene, Sackville.

Time—Midnight.

Character—Doug. Crease.

Act I—(Enter hero) “Where is t
telegraph office?” a ,

Act IIl—Scene—Sherriff Hall (girl
sitting at window) No news, guess
I’ll go to bed.

Flash—Shirreff Hall girls have
given up Ping Pong for the more
strenuous game of snow-bank jumping. Last week Isabel Fraser, Fran
Huntley and Charlotte Crosby were
seen partaking of this new pastime.

 

 

Flash Don’t forget Dalhousie

: night at Capitol Th a eas
Flash—It is rumoured that Don & apitol Theatre—and this is

unsolicited.
Saunderson is the new chaperone of |
our Basketball team. By the way, inne:
Don, why do they call you “the) Flash—Roy Atwood tells your

seed.” C: ae ak
ampus correspondent that he has

been selling lots of clothes pins
lately. Two explanations either the
girls at Shirreff Hall are washing
their own clothes or students are
pinning them on their noses when
reading the “Book of Bunc”.

——

 

Flash—It’s June in January when:
Harold Flynn is with Billie Oxley;
Doug. Murray romps with Ruth
Skaling; When Bluebeard Richard
 

 

—— WHERE COLLEGE MEN CONGREGATE —~—

~~ How About That
New Overcoat?

|

     

We have lots of them in all the latest

styles and colors.

 

Priced at

$19.50 $22.50 $25.°° $30.

| ;
NEW HATS — SCARVES — GLOVES and SPATS
At Our Usual Reasonable Prices.

Shane’s Men's Shop

Thirty Spring Garden Road

Discount of 10% Allowed Dal Students. |

 

 

 

 

 

 
   
 
     
   
  
       
  
  
  
 
  
   
  
 
   
  
 
  
   
  
 
 
    
  
   
   
   
   
   
   
    
    
 
  
  
  
   
  
  
   
 
 
 
 
  
  

od

Ree ae ay ss DALHOUSIE GAZETTE
e| THE FOURTH Dissertation On _| Prof. Speaks Again
aie a | OF BUNK 5 A Lollipop Editor, Dalhousie Gazette:

é Sir,—Your reporter states that the
we In ‘the Advertising Section” of

questions asked by the students folmagazines and newspapers we ving Dr. Henry Munroe’s address
see the question, “What do children a The Saar” last Tuesday were
ery for?” The answer below may be| “ily and stupid.”

anything from Ice-cream to Castor-|_ It is only fair to add that Dr.
oil. But, actually, the universal de- Munro himself thought different. I
mand among the younger generation walked home with him after the
is supplied by Lollipops. Such popu- Porum address and he said to me:
larity must be deserved, but many The questions show that the stupeople know nothing of the complex = have been studying the probhistory of the development of this |“°™

tooth-tempting tidbit from the first

crude stages of research to the modern, perfect confection.

The origin of the Lollipop is
shrouded in the darkness of the ages
for it existed before the dawn of
History. Ancient Oriental legends
credit the discovery to Suk Anlick,
the first and only scientist to graduate from the University of Northern
Siberia. However, it is a confirmed
myth that when our Asiatic ancestors migrated across what is now called Bering Strait (then a strip of
land joining Siberia and Alaska)
they took with them what they considered to be a wonderful delicacy—
the original Popsicle, a drink on a
stick.

The manufacture of this article
was, even then, a complex process,
necessitating great economic understanding and business management.
Large quantities of ripe berries were
gathered in the southern part of the
country and rushed northward by
swift runners. These were crushed,
water was added in proper proportions and the whole frozen on a
small branch. The finished product
was a great luxury, selling for two
mammoth hides.

Thus it was only the great hunters
who could afford the confection, but
their craving was so strong that in
a few decades all the mammoths and
other pre-historic animals became
extinct. By this time all the warriors had become so out of condition
that they rapidly degenerated and
are what we now call, ‘The Poor
Eskimo’.

The history of the Lollipop as we
know it today begins before the discovery of America. The Indians
were, unknowingly, the inventors.
One of their favourite customs was
the annual tribal boiling of maple
sap. This procedure was carried on
under none too-sanitary conditions,| And so, Mothers, when Junior
and it was inevitable that straws!¢ries for a Lollipop, remember that
and branches should fall into the crowned heads have demanded the
cauldron. The squaws would remove Same, though not so pure or cheap
these and a quantity of the syrup confection. The desire for the sweet,
woudl adhere to the sticks. These | Soothing morsel is inborn in the male
were given to the younger members |¢child and it only leaves him when
of the tribe who would execute a the desire for another New World
juvenile war-dane in joy. They they|discovery, tobacco, takes its place.
would sit in a circle, as their sires|}The sooner this transition takes
sat in council, and ‘smoke’ the sugar-| Place, the better for the race. But
coated sticks. The domestic peace|that is another story.

On Going To Town

The wind is blowing across my brow ,
The sun beats down full upon me.

I breathe deeply of the good clean air;
It fills me deeper and better

As I walk steadily on through the maze
Of wind, sun and things about me,

CHAPTER 13.

1. And now it has come to pass
that once again the Mighty KounSel of Studes has met, and once
again the Supreme Body has erred.
A beautiful ladee arose and begged
the Kounsel that the Bla-Bah GabAa So Roh-Ree-Tee be allowed to
use the Sacred Name of Dal for a
Thee-A-Ter Night, to wheech all the
studes would be allowed to go. Requests of beautiful Ladees could not
go unrewarded; so hardly hath the
words of the Bla-Bah Gab-Aa fell
upon the Lhees-Ten-Eeng Eers when
all answered in the Aff-erm-Ative.
Nay, not all... All but two and one
who is not easily swayed by FemIn-Eearl Prow-Ress, voiced heese
Op-een-yon in a loud voice, as the
Ben Yett Feesher always does. But
he, not bee-ing a beautiful Ladee,
his voice fell upon Deff Eers. Feesher could not see why one So-RohRee-Tee should be given Pref-ErEns nor did the medder, LeBruin.
But just as is always the kase in the
Kounsel when Feesher says “yes” all
the rest say “no”. Even the sal-areed Rankeene, (he who should only
be seen, but not heard) who saw a
chanee to get somebody else to do
some work, so that he might be saved the Task, argued that Feesher
was only breething Wet Air. And
so the thoughtful Stude has no Plase
upon the Kounsel. Their words are
like Leeves, and where they most
Abound, much Fruit of Sense beneeth is rarely found.

of his nocturnal escapades,
on his task of pleasing the
s. While we commend his

thoughtfulness in not de; the opposite sex of what
be their greatest pleasure, yet
uld admonish him not to overfor his own sake, if not for
_ that of those directly concerned in

C. H. MERCER.

sss

producing potentialities of the confection were seen and the commercial value of the marvel was realized. Salesmen were sent to other
tribes and production was carried on
on a large scale.

When Columbus finally arrived, he
was met at the dock by the leading
chiefs and presented with a bouquet
of Lollipops, which, after thanking
the natives and claiming the country,
he divided among the crew. When
he returned to Spain, he took ‘several
in cold storage for Isabella, along

with a few cartons for himself. As
|
}

 

Be We welcome this week a newcomer
_ to the residence, Preston Clark.

* ah Basketball practices for the sea_ son have begun and we have already
noted again the weary bones which

3
a

on Monday afternoons crave rest.

 

 

“oa Howard Kennedy was visiting in
__ the residence last week-end, and was
a y welcomed during his short

.
F rca
*, + COFGIE
a ey Me

— gi yay.

+ =

soon as they were presented to the
Queen, the noble lady put them in
her mouth, for she was a woman of
great capacity, and was so delighted
with the new discovery that she absorbed Columbus’ entire stock. She
then demanded more. Now, in those
days, the Queen’s word was law,
and, acting as self-appointed salesman, Columbus sent a large order to
the New World. The natives worked
night and day to fill the order. Mass
production was successfully carried
on and the trade flourished. But the
Indians could stand neither the work
or the prosperity, and they, as their
Eskimo cousins before them, degenerated.

This left the white man to carry
on the work alone, and right nobly
has he responded. Many inventions
and discoveries were made by famous scientists until we have the
perfect, nutritious, modern Lollipop.
But it is only a matter of time until
we too go the way of all the other
exponents of the Lollipop. See how
those of us who go to the land of the
sugar-cane and then to pieces degenerate into the ‘poor whites’ reviled by even our colored brothers
under the skin.

ae
_-___ Another visitor this week is Nori man Estep, who graduated in The____— ology last year. Norman is making
! ___ one of his now suspiciously frequent
____ visits to the city. There seems to be
_-—s something = in the air—can it be
' ~ bells?

«
"he af

cs if \
J ‘i
sy

YS Tro 
 

The scribe was rather hard up for
sews: this week, so he was reduced
_ ___ to asking Art Wright his preference
in cigars. This well-known business
a _ man, whose hobby is breaking rocks
___—aeross the Arm, was good enough to
grant this reply “in a few well____ chosen words”, “When I buys ’em,”
Fi he stated, “they are five-centers, but
when they gives ’em, I never ac_-—s cepts anything but a ten-center”.

interview

j
| 7
i.

2. In the lettle Corn-yer of the
Lande of Forrest, which is the Home
of the Studes of the Law, there is
beeing revived the Olde Famous
Mock Parleement. Already it is ru;moured the Leeberals have met and
have voted the seelver-tongued
Lhaw-Rens as their Head. With
Bent-Lee of the Steeks as his chief
Wheep, they have hopes of giving
Mr. Ben-xett’s partee the air (which
the Studes or uaw do not find woo
rure). but tune .o0r-ees have not
been allowing grass to grown under
their Beez beet.. Hhan-Sohn and
e, but. this time operations weesher are rusiung around like the
seem to be more extended, for the weend, and their »pollowe:s seein Lo
. “insidious “disease +secms ‘to - have @ Many. “11s 1:umouced tuat the co erept in among the theologues. y_ 4uditor Suth-ir-Lande was even ofa has been whispered that Lloyd Mar- 1€4€4 a s.apinet rosition, so that tue
Be shall, “Larrigans”, and even the +°feeS Would have We Gaz-zelt on
2 usually alert MacQueen, have be- telr side. but the Noble wditor re7 trayed an amazing gullibility in this puletn what the Gaz must remain
— direction. “Larrigans”, it is true, at 4Vew-tral, and its Kolumns must be
. os least attempted to get some previous un-pol-iut-ed by Partee Politics. ’Tis
i - information, but all attempts failed. enough quoth he that we must pro____ News of this battle of wits has not|tekt and befriend the Kounsel of
‘yet seeped through the lines of com- Studes from the ire of the Children
munication, but let us hope that the | of Dal. We can go no further.
cards were not against them, and :
that they were not forced to make| %- Now, in the Lande of Dal we
eto a bid in order to get out of the dif- have a number of Persons who surBea ficulty, and, most of all, that they |"@me themselves Athletes. They
Ps did not slam the door on the way play Games and useth the Sakred
os eet - What this Pine Hill At Home Kolors of Black and Gold. The
want do to some people; Studes shell ten Bhuks out of their

i Pokets each year to make this possible, and they are Justee-Fied to
command Results. They care not
whether the teems win or lose, so
long as they wage a steeff Battle.
Bee-Fore Studes can wage steeff btatles they must be fit, and must train
seriously. If they are not willing to
sacriuce preshus leequeeds, and to
repare to their Bheds eerly eech
Night, to be fit warriors to defend
the sakred Kolors of Dal, their place
is not to hide under the undeserved
honour of a uniform of Black and
Gold; but to return to their hideouts
away from the Publeec Eye. Let the
Chasers of the Ball, and finders of
the Basket take heed, and too let
them remember the Fate of the PigSkeen Keeck-ers. The Children of
Dal are supporting their teems with
shekels, at least return the Kompleement.

‘With these words the
___ ¢losed, as the magnate wished to repte _ tire from the haunts of men in purES suit of this hobby.
aegis

 

lind dates seem to have become
fashion in Pine Hill since the
quarrie, Milner and MacDonald

C

 

i=
l

. ~ Halifax Transfer
PHONE B. 7138

 

 

I feel the hard pavement ’neath my feet;

My steps are heavy, and strong, and sure.

I sway slightly with the rhythm of their movement,
I walk upon the path of little pebbles;

I feel the submissive groan of broken crystals

, That become the gray-hued path where feet do walk.
I know my business — BUT

I need your head in it.

Haircuts 25ce.

BERT BOWLBY
445 BARRINGTON STREET
(Over Buckley’s)

      
        
         
    
   
  
  
 
  
  
  
   
  
  
 
  
  
  
     
 
   

I pass persons, smug with life and themselves;
‘They feel nothing but the coins within their pockets.
My eyes gaze in their’s as we pass,

They see nothing but the sweat upon my brow,

But I see pain, cunning, content, and pathos,

Together with the superficial joy their eyes do show.

  

  

  

 

My feet carry me past all these things:

Tepid beings that have never felt the fire of life,
Houses without souls, mere shacks of wood and clay,
The horse that draws the negro and his load.

What passes through the old black head

That makes no motion in the dull white eyes?

a Programmes, invitations, and favors for

dances require thought
and early planning.

 

     
   
 

I pass the sprawling child upon the street,
Who knows that life is and cares not why,
For there is city dust to grime his hands,
So that the passerby looks down and thinks
What thing is this that lives and breathes
And tosses paper in the dirty squalid wind?

MacLeod, Balcom
Limited

DRUGGIST

For that added
smartness, consult
Birks.

I kick the pebbles odd upon the pavement
And love the sound of crunch and groan.
A leaf sifts by, dead and dull as the bodies

  

ne A

|
ee ee ee

 

- | ane oe ingore of its withered flight.
ys SO 1 pass and others pass each day
owe ee Halifax and Bedford Through this same sphere of earth and leaves and wind.

=i

= =

 
  

M. C. M.

an

~~

ae

® A
a ¢ eee 4 YS oe ad 3 ¥ _ eh
- iol a or : if i eet tn ¢ % ry Se» a Pe ; t - Pi re
[' re a. . aa Ge ie eo - = fi i &i d
pay) dee eRe. SC po Miia eS me a Ast ty.
4s ed a PA ss i, Se een ee ee x} ~

   

   

SS a OE OS oa eel ncepanaed hm bk OP Ae

at ee ge sae

GET SET FOR

A “STRIKE”

 

Critical smokers. will

tell you that Turrets

certainly do score high
when it comes to really smooth, satisfying
quality. You really
ought to try Turrets
and make a strike
with yourself!

Quality and Mildness

urret

CIGA
SAVE THE

RETTES
POKER HANDS

Imperial Tobacco Company of Canada, Limited.

STUDENTS’ FORUM

The Editor:

Sir,—This letter is being written
to correct any misunderstanding regarding the proposed Dal Night on
February 11th. In the last issue of
The Gazette an editorial remarked
upon the presence at Dalhousie of a
money making organization striving
to pay old bills. While such a libelous statement is dangerous at any
time the members of Alpha Gamma
Delta fail to see how it applies to
the case this time. Today it was
brought to our attention that no
facts had been publicly furnished by
which you could judge otherwise.

Certainly no debts have been incurred which we are not financially
able to meet and we have been told
that that is more than can be said
of numerous fraternities and sororities.

If certain persons had taken time
to consider, surely the true situation
would at once have been apparent—
would any fraternity boldly advertise such a state of affairs on a campus like Dalhousie? Why, the
chapter might as well fold up in the
first place.

ow let us have the facts. Alpha
Gamma Delta solicited approval
from the Students’ Council to sponsor a Dal Theatre Party to be followed by a dance at the Green
Lantern (surely a Dal night is a
worthy undertaking in itself) for
which the tickets would be sold as
arranged by us with the Capitol
Theatre. Isn’t it pretty generally
known that this theatre would not
make such an arrangement except in
the ease of a charitable undertaking? Anyhow, the small percentage
of each ticket we receive is for
charity.

At the 1919 Convention, Alpha
Gamma Delta adopted as its national
altruistic work the support and
management of a summer camp for
underprivileged children. This camp
was located at Joileson, Michigan.
With the installation of five chapters
in Canada, need was felt and plans
were made and realized (in 1932) at
Wellard, Ontario—directed, incidentally, by a former Halifax girl,
Margaret Hilchie.

 

Student’s Special

SUITS or TOPCOATS
perfectly dry cleaned
and pressed

$1.25

Sponged and Pressed, 45c.
Called for and delivered.

Telephone Lorne 2323.

e 9 e o
Cousins’ Limited
Dry Cleaners - Dyers - Tailors
“None better—anywhere”

    
 
    
 
  
   

 

In the past our contribution to the
support of this camp has been raised in part by holding benefit bridge
parties and one year by the sale of
refreshments at the Faculty Badminton Club nights.

Since the fact that the proceeds
from the show would be altogether
for charity was not stated in the application to the Council, unfortunately, may we suggest that the author
of the letter must have concluded
that the Council already HAD the
necessary information from a previous discussion of the project. . At
that time (before Christmas), the
plan was made known to the President of the Council and although the
date we had than set was impossible
(Glee Club had asked first) he assured us that it was an excellent
plan and ought to go over well. It
was merely an oversight on our part
that the real purpose was not stated
publicly by advertising before any
unfavorable rumors could be started.
If you do not see any further information it will be because the Council
does not want us to use the name
of the sorority and so encourage any
future ventures . We are selling the
tickets to the students for a Dal
night and when you buy them you
are NOT paying our old bills but
helping to support a social service
work of an excellent nature—caring
for and aiding underprivileged
children.

We hope that it will be a fairly
representative show which will be
presented on the stage of Dalhousie
talent and we wish now to express
our appreciation to those students
who have generously consented to
perform and thus assist in making
the Dal night a success.

We hope that this has cleared up
any misunderstanding of the rea
situation and Alpha Gamma Delta
joins with the Council in an invitation to attend the Capitol Theatre on
February 11th, and also the dance
at the Green Lantern.

Alpha Eta of Alpha Gamma Delta.

 

 

HALIFAX TAXI CO.
At sour B.7376

Service
Lowest Rate to Students.

/

FROM THE

WINNER START

For 60 years the REACH Trade
Mark on Sporting Goods has
been a mark of perfection. No

matter what your favorite sport
may be we can supply you with

equipment that will help you
play the game with the best
that’s in you.

CRAGG BROS. CO,

Limited.

Hardware & Sporting Goods.
HALIFAX, N. S.

 

 
   
    
    
 

5 Ves

Dal Downed By

be

= }
“es

i ie

ane”

me. 4
fn?

a,
ne
*<

_--—s-' The Dal team, decked out in their
new uniforms, looked like a team
hie) - eapable of going places when they
Pa se. > first skated on the ice, but the clever
--—s work of the opposing forward line
a: goon dominated the play and Kyte
was called on to make several hard
stops before Conn, playing a stellar
game for the St. Mary’s boys, flashed two quick shots past Vic. The

shots were from close in, giving
_ Kyte no chance to save.

‘Dal tried hard to even up matters
and were finally rewarded when
Graham beat McNeil from a mix-up
in front of St. Mary’s net. St.
Mary’s were still skating hard and
before the period ended had tested
Kyte with a number of hard shots
from the blue line.

Play improved somewhat in the
second period, but the Dal boys’ efforts of «combination wouldn’t click,
their passes usually going wild or
to the sticks of the St. Mary’s players. Dal was playing four men up

the ice in an attempt to tie the
score, when Garaghan defence star
of St. Mary’s broke clear with but
one defenceman to beat. Rounding
his man, Garaghan skated in on

Kyte, to drive a low shot into the

corner of the net.

Faced by the imposing two goal
lead, Dal put on steam. With Buckley changing his forwards every
three or four minutes, they set a
hot pace for the St. Mary’s backcheckers, but when the Dal players
did break through the St. Mary’s
forward line it was only to fall before the stonewall defence thrown

pe up in front of McNeill.

_ Graham on right wing for Dal
‘was playing a hard game, and his

blazing shot from the wing bothered

MeNeill considerably.

_ In the third period play zigzagged
back and forth, with St. Mary’s
-——s eombination play showing to advan| __ tage over the individual attempts of
_____ the Dal players. Conn and Fullerton
hae Ses on seyeral nice passing bouts were
Cape Bretoner was playing the game
sof his career and they were robbed
of what had appeared sure goals.

2 Patton and Graham, who replaced

Godwin and Begg, played well in
their first appearance for Dal, but
the team as a whole lacked the
combination play so essential to a
good team. Cooke’s work at centre
stood out for Dal, while Johnny Carroll lined up with Doug Bent on the
Dal defence, was bumping his exteam-mates without mercy.

i

77 A

 

Tee


on Pe

iil
o ms

 

History most certainly repeats
itself, but there are times when
we wish that it didn’t, especially
in the attendance of the students
at Dalhousie’s sporting activities.
i Last fall students came in for
ie much and well-deserved criticism
for their failure to support the
football team.

| FRASER BROS.
me. TAXI

25c. Rate

On all Student call.
B-6070

 

 

  
 
    
       
           
        
       
     
     
         
        
         

Canterbury Room

While students were at
- home during the summer
- The Green Lantern made
a decided change in decorating The Canterbury
Room. Cosy and very

vtcaly

| Se Ree et Os ee ee at ee ee,

ee eee

St. Mary’s3 to 1

_ Showing a complete reversal of the form that carried them
to a 3 to 1 victory over the fast skating N.S. Tech. team, in
their first league game, the Dal Tigers bowed to the superior
team play of a smooth-working St. Mary’s machine.

| Dal— Goal, Kyte; defence, Bent,
Carroll, Brosby; forwards, Mullane,
Cohn, Stanfield, Graham,
Patton.

Interfaculty League

LAW GETS FIRST WIN

By virtue of a 20—15 victory over
Commerce, Law broke into the winning columns of the League. A rushing start led by big Don Ross at
centre for Law put his team into an
early lead. Hal Connors, left forward for the winners, also played a
strong game dropping in three
baskets from under the basket in
first half,

Commerce, led by Leo Simmons,
intermediate star, could collect but
four field goals to eight of the Lawyers in the first period. They, however, outplayed the winners in second half scoring seven points to four
for Law. Innes McLeod was the
outstanding guard, collecting three
field shots for his team, as well as
playing a stellar game on defense.
Ross led the scoring with eight
points, followed by Connor and McLeod. with six each.

Law—H. Connor, 6; D. Ross, 8; I.
McLeod, 6; W. B. Davis, C. Miller,
G. Smith.

Comm.—D. Saunderson3; R. Hurst
L. Petrie 2; Goodman 2; M. Lawrence, L. Simmonds 8. Referee, Ted
Crease,

Cooke,

DENISTRY TAKES SECOND WIN
38—31

Heavy scoring featured Dents victory over the Frosh on Tuesday with
practically each player making
points. Although Dentistry had the
more experienced team they could
only eke out a two goal lead in the
first period, by a score of 14—10.

Fresh rushed the game in the second period led by Doug. Lyall who
collected 15 points by himself. This
forced Dentistry forwards into action with Goldman scoring seven and
Lipschitz eleven which gave the winners a slight margin of three points
for that half. The losers claimed the
honor of high scorer in the person of
Doug Lyall with 17 points, Dentistry
coming second with Lipschitz with
15 points.

Dents.—Goldman 9; Lipschitz 15;
Tokesh 6; Victor, Stein 6; Sloane,
Heflich 2.

Fresh—Vair 2; Winters 4; Fiddebaum, D. Lyall 17; Lipton 2; Sargent
3; Koretskey 3. Referee, Bob McLellan, Halifax.

 

Criticizes Hockey Turn Ou


ne Se
LL a

This winter we have a team that
is going places—in hockey. For
years we have been unsuccessful
in gaining hockey laurels, but now
we have a team assured of the
high ranking berth in the Intercollegiate League. It would be
nice to see a few Dalhousie faces
at the Forum when the team goes
out on the ice and trims all the opposition offered them, as_ they
have been doing so far this season.

On behalf of the fair name and
tradition of Dalhousie, it would
only become Dalhousie’s students
to support and cheer for their
representatives in the various
sports and to do a little less
lounge-lizarding. Make a little less
noise when taking your zoop and
you'll have a little extra with
which to spur on Dalhousie’s skating madmen to victory.

Arts and Science
Defeat Pine Hill

Led by Edgar Stewart with 16
points Arts and Science easily defeated Theology by a margin of 10
points. Then ten point lead was
gained in the first period, the winners being content to play on even
terms in the second. Team work and
sure passing were the winning factors for Arts and Science while the
Theologs resorted too much to unsuccessful individuals plays.

Theology—G. MacKenzie, 2; D.
McLeod, 8; S. McDonald, 1; L. Mitchell, H. Watts, H. Thompson,6; McSween, Gordon, 5;

Arts & Sc.—E. Stewart, 16; M.
Lipton, 5; W. Horowitz, 6; K. Kranz
4; H. Gaum, 1. Referee: Doug Lyall.

 

LS

ve?

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

SPORT REVIEW

By ED STEWART

The Dal Tigers played their first game in the current
basketball season last Saturday night against Mt. Allison, whom
they defeated 24—18. The team is gradually rounding into
shape, and if that game is any indication, the Bengals are just
as good, if not better, than they were last year when they won
the Maritime title. The loss of Bernie Ralston, star forward,
was felt for a time to be very serious, but more teamwork,
combined with a fighting spirit, makes them a more powerful
aggregation than ever before. :

The ping pong tournament is now underway and some exciting matches are in prospect. The management requests the
co-operation of the players in running off the first few rounds
as quickly as possible.

The Dal hockey squad, present city intercollegiate title|—

holders, got away to a flying start in the opening league fixture
last week. From their performance against Tech it looks as if
they were due to cop the league title again this year.

The boxing team, now that workouts are underway, is
looking forward to one of the brightest years in its career.
Though weakened by the loss of Big Jim McLead, it is
strengthened by the return to intercollegiate competition of
Mike Hinchey, formerly of St. F. X., and Boyd McGillivary.
They, together with the rest of last year’s stars, form a team
that will make the other Maritime clubs that boast of boxing
teams take notice.

It is rumoured that during their trip to Liverpool a
would-be missionary, selecting the Dal Cubs as fit subjects for
his efforts, tried to convert them. It appears that his efforts
were in vain, because a certain member of the team tried to
ride both ways on the same ticket.

Constitution of the D.A.A.C.

For the benefit of the students|such other persons as are now mem
who are interested in the D.A.A.C.
and have heard discussed the possibility that the Constitution may be
changed, the Gazette is publishing
the Act by which the body was incorporated. The Act has stood in
its present form since 1896, the
date of incorporation, with the exception of an amendment in 1907,
which provided that the body should
have the power of acquiring property to the value of $25,000 rather
than the $10,000 limit placed on the
body by the Act of 1896.

The student should note particularly Sec. 3, which provides that the
corporation may alter or change, in
whole or in part, the Constitution in
the manner provided by the Constitution and By-Laws then in force,
provided such By-Laws shall be first
approved by the Governor-in-Council.

The present Constitution requires
that a week’s notice of the proposed
amendment or repeal shall be given
and a two-thirds majority vote of
the members present at a duly called
meeting.

A regular meeting of the D.A.A.C.
ean only be called if the students
have had three days’ notice, which
notice is to be posted on the bulletin
boards in the Arts and Science
building, the gymnasium and the
Law and Medical buildings.

The Statutes of Nova Scotia, 1896.
Chapter 122.
An Act to Incorporate the Dalhousie
Athletic Club.
(Passed the 15th day of February,
A.D. 1896).

Incorporation.
General powers of corporation.
Constitution and By-Laws, &c.
Certain property vested in coration.
Limited liability.
Be it enacted by the Governor,
Council, and Assembly, as follows:
1, John Forrest, Herbert G. Maxwell, David K. Grant, Robert T.
Macllreith, Laughlin A. McLean and

4m oo po be

po
2.

n

bers or shall hereafter become members of the club, are hereby constituted and shall be a body corporate,
under the name of the ‘Dalhousie
Amateur Athletic Club”, for the promotion of athletics and the physical
improvement of its members.

3. The Constitution and By-Laws
of the Club by this Act incorporated,
now in force, touching the admission
and expulsion of members, and the
management and control generally
of the affairs and concerns of the
club, in so far as they are not inconsistent with the laws of this
province, shall be the constitution
and by-laws of the said corporation;
provided always, that the corporation may from time to time alter,
repeal and change, in whole or in
part, such constitution and by-laws
in the manner provided by the constitution and by-laws then in force,
provided such by-laws shall be first
approved by the Governor-in-Council. The corporation shall have
power to make contracts for the
purposes of the club, to sue and be
sued in the corporate name, and
shall be governed and conducted in
accordance with the said constitution and by-laws.

4. All property and effects now
owned or held in trust for the club
are hereby vested in the corporation,
and shall be applied solely to the
purposes of the corporation; and all
debts, claims for subscriptions or
contributions of members, and other
rights accruing to the club under its
constitution and by-laws, shall be
vested in the corporation; and all
debts constituted by this Act; and
the corporation shall be charged
with the liabilities and obligations
of the club.

5. No member of the corporation
shall be liable in his person or separate estate for any of the debts
thereof, beyond a sum which shall
be equal to the amount of the original entrance fee, and the respective
Share of every member in the
amount of the subsequent contributions or divisions which might here
Wrestling Club Notes
By F. BE. GOUDGE, Ex-Co-Ed.

The Gazette should correct a misunderstanding of considerable import as well as to impress upon Dalhousians the
true value of a get-together, such as a “Dalhousie Night” at a
local theatre—or some such affair where a Dalhousie atmosphere, purely, would prevail.

It has been left to a Dal Sorority to initiate such a programme. Alpha Gamma Delta has,b y authority of the Students
Council, made negotiations with the Capitol Theatre to set aside
the evening of February 11th for Dalhousie students. The entire proceeds going towards charity and NOT for other causes
as Dal was erroneously lead to believe. Besides the special
picture there will be a stage show adapted to student sentiment
and a dance at the Green Lantern after the show, to round off
the evening.

Here then, is a golden opportunity for Dalhousians to
demonstrate that there still exists a spark of that elusive spirit
of good fellowship so obscure and oscilate among students of
OTHER non residential colleges. Let us all make a concerted
effort to frame this Dal Theatre Night as a whacking success.

tl a

Ce ee
ee eT

a

January 24, 1935

Katharine
Hepburn

. as Babbie, the darkeyed tempest, in SIR
JAMES M. BARRIE’S
romance...

THE LITTLE

CASINO

Starting
SAT. JANUARY 26.

GRETA

MINISTER

JOHN BEAL
ALAN HALE

GARBO

IN

The
Painted Veil

Friday, Saturday, Monday

 

 

Dal Tigers Defeat Mounties
In Fast Basketball Game

At 9.30 Saturday night, before a small crowd, the Dalhousie Tigers, Maritime Senior Champs, opened the season
with a convincing 24—18 victory over the Mount Allison
quintet—convincing in the fact that it was many years ago
that a Tiger five eked out a one point decision in the Allison
stronghold.

From the first tip-off it was evident that Dal had control
and with machine-like precision plays were begun and almost
completed, but it seemed impossible to put the ball through the
basket. However, what the game lacked in the way of shooting was more than made up in the close guarding and fast floor
work of the teams. It was due to excellence in defensive play
‘ATOAISUOYO 10]OO YO AVM 919M AVY} TOT oures ayy [eq oaRs yeyy

For the first eight minutes of the
game the spectators were treated to

As far as play went there was no

some lovely ball-handling and an
exhibition of how not to score. The
Mounties opened the scoring with a
penalty shot. Anderson of the Dal
team retaliated with a sweet basket
but for the second and last time of
the game the Mounties led 4-2. After
a short conference the Dal team
sank three baskets in quick succes
'Bauld,

 

sion. At this point the play had
roughened up considerably and several near fights were
averted. This was caused by the)
rugby-like guarding tactics of several players and, as the referee was|
rather lax in this, it became a case
of “when in Rome do as the Romans
do.”

The Mounties rallied near the end
of the period but it was just short!
of tying things up and Dal walked
off with a 10-9 lead at half time.

The second half was a repetition
of the first as regards the rough
play but the boys could take it and
kept playing basketball. The Dal!
team lengthened their lead and with
about six minutes to go were lead-'|
ing 18-11. Mount Allison crept up
to within four points but Dal spurted in the dying minutes of the game

|

to score two quick baskets thus put-|

ting the game on ice.

after be levied or allotted between
all the members for the time being,
in equal shares, and which might
remain unpaid by such members; |
and any member of the corporation
not being in arrears may retire
therefrom, and shall cease to be
such member on giving notice to
that effect in such form as may be|
required by the constitution and
by-laws, and thereafter shall be
wholly free from liability for any
debt or engagement thereof; and
every member expelled or retiring
from the corporation, or whose
name shall have been struck out of
the list of membership, for any of
the reasons mentioned in the constitution and by-laws, and shall forfeit
all rights of membership.

 

 

 

The Statutes of Nova Scotia, 1907.
Chapter 187.

An Act to amend Chapter 122, Acts
of 1896, entitled, “An Act to Incorporate the Dalhousie Amateur
Athletic Club”.

(Passed the 28th day of March,

A.D, 1907.)

Be it enacted by the Governor,

Council and Assembly, as follows:

1. Section 2 of Chapter 122 of
the Acts of Nova Scotia for the year

1896, is hereby struck out, and the

following section substituted there
for:
“The corporation shall have the
right to purchase, own, take, hold,

Seemanepsticeae aed ede eg ye eee

 

 

“Let the Laundry do it”
81-85 West St. Garrick St.

Halifax Steam Laundry
Limited
Tel. L. 2300, L. 2309, L. 1618
Established 1877.

 

| Crease.
narrowly | Crease. Cen

 

Thanks, Jim.

outstanding performer on the Dal
team—in fact the team work of the
boys gained them their victory —
Musgrave, stellar guard of the Black
and Gold, led the Dal attack with &
points closely followed by Fairstein,
and Gladstone: Don MacIntosh led the Mounties with five
points followed by Owen and Brodie.

Dalhousie: forward, Bauld 4; Fairstein 4; Richardson, D. Crease Bs Es
tre: Gladstone 4; Guards,
Musgrave 8; Anderson 2.

Mount Allison: forward, Brodie 3;
Hyiski 2; Austen, Adairl. Centre:
Owen 4. Guards: MacIntosh 5; McSween 2,

High spots of the trip:
The coffee and pie at Truro—the

Aulton House at Sackville — the
chicken dinner Sunday—at the rink
Saturday afternoon — that sweet

tang of victory after the game—the
antics of the two Katzenjammer
Kids Sunday—the wholesale raiding
of the L. C. by certain members of
the team — those long walks — the
stories—a certain player’s prolonged
laughter— the Chief of Police—our
chaperon—the riddle at the Sackville
Station—the late train—“Big Jim’s”
all round generalship of the trip.

lease, rent, possess and enjoy all
lands and tenements and all real
and immovable estate, being ‘and
situate in the province of Nova
Scotia, necessary for its actual use
and occupation for the purposes for
which it was created, and to sell,
mortgage, lease, rent, assign or
otherwise dispose of such property,
and to acquire other instead thereof, whenever the corporation may
deem it proper so to do, but such

‘Teal estate shall not exceed the value

of twenty-five thousand dollars.

 

 

Interfaculty Basketball

MEDS 28—LAW 20

In their opening game of the Interfaculty Basketball League, Medicine slipped away from Law in the
second period to win by a margin
of 9 points. Law, however had been
on even terms in the first period and
by a last second field shot had a
slight margin over their opponents.
Loss of Charlie Miller on fouls, early
in the second period weakened the
Lawyers.

The final ten minutes saw Medicine surge ahead on several wing
shots by DuBilier which lead was
never threatened. Although the winners were weakened by losing two
men on personals they carefully
maintained their lead. The last five
minutes of play saw the Meds playing one man short,

Law—D. Ross, 1; C. Miller, 5; W.
B. Davis, 5; I. McLeod, 4; G. Smith,
3; H. Connor, 2; D. Harvey, E. Murray, Thompson.

Meds—Cy Miller, 5; J. Lebowitz,
2; L. Green, 6; R. DuBilier, 8; A.

‘Mandelstand. Referee, T. Crease.

 
