 

a
=

mo
Rh ae
=
-%

    
 
   
  
  
 

 
  
  
 

  

a
- it :

me
i, ca

iN 4
; Ae

ea 7.
pam
P ~*

VOL. LXV\

-minutes in which to speak, and the

Both Mr. Cleveland and Mr. Harri
: em WV "

i!

LGB

Dal Team Selected To
Meet British Debaters

CLEVELAND AND SUTHERLAND CHOSEN

With a fine crop of debating material to pick from, judges
at the trials held on Friday evening last in the Munro Room

“are conceded to have made an excellent choice of a two-man

team to represent the University against a team from Oxford

October 23. The team is none

and Cambridge to meet here in the Gymnasium on Tuesday,

other than that of J. Harrison

Cleveland and Dougall H. Sutherland, men well known to every

student as good debaters.

Those who participated in the
trials were Ronald Copp, Halifax;
Bernard Andrews, Port de Greve,
Newfoundland; Edward Arab, Halifax; C. Fred Fraser, Halifax; Alfred Linkletter, Charlottetown; L.
A. Landreville, Quebec; J. Harrison
Cleveland, Dartmouth; Eric Murray,
Halifax, and D. H. Sutherland,
Sydney.

Many interesting. points were
raised in regard to the subject
chosen for the debate, “Resolved
that This House Deplores the Rise
of Fascism’. The contestants for
places on the team were given seven
option of taking either the alternatice or negative of the question.
son took the negative. Cae
Wa oe eis erland is the recipient of

 
  

cism, which held the

 

 

 

vs on Fas

interest “of ‘those “present ‘fér “Sore

time, “after which David Maclellan
made two points, that of the vagueness of ‘the ‘subject ‘chosen for ‘the
debate, and secondly, the irrelevance
indulged in ‘by the vatious speakers,
maintaining that the only true example ‘of Fascism which could be
used in ‘a debate was ‘that of Italy,
where’ Fascism still holds sway under the rule of its founder, Benito
Mussolini. Cther political systéms
cotild not be uSed as examples for
the debate, simply because ‘they
were called “Fascism” or said to be
very similar. The only political
system which could be considered
Fascist was that of Italy.

Mr. Cleveland ‘and Mr. Suthérland also made ‘séveral temarks ‘on
matters figuring on the list of the
aim of Fascism, which created .general interest among thoSe présent.

The judges were Professors C. L.
Bennett, A. K. Griffin and E. W.
Nichols.

Shirreff Hall Notes

Miss Marian Findlay, of Sydney,
spent the Thanksgiving week end
with friends at the Hall.

Miss Maurak McKeen,

 

     

just re
turned from summer camp in New

Brunswick, has been having a busy

week welcoming all her old friends.

Miss Doreen Harper of Class
83 came over from Saint John to
spend the holiday with her two
sisters, who are at Sacred Heart.
They all had tea at the Hall on
Sunday.

As ‘a matter of fact, Saint John
Was very well represented at the
Hall on Sunday afternoon, when the
long lamented faces of Andy Bruce
and Art Fairweather hove into sight

/Girls spending the Thanksgiving.
week end at their homes were Ndith

Gillespie. —

te a

tt

 
 

 

SOMETHING TO
THINK ABOUT

George Bernard Shaw once addressed a company as follows: “I
suppose that you seldom think. Few
people think more than two or three
times a year. I have made an international reputation for myself by
thinking once or twice a week.”
That’s something for all of us to
think about.

 

‘World’s Series Baseball Games
seem to be occupying the spoflight
these days. Over half a million dollars has been paid as adihission
‘fees, And they say there’s a de_préssion. 7

~

 

   

4

  
  
 
 
  
 
  
  
  

U e - States, France, Cuba,
United States,

Sig oaEe Wears
mnt ee
¥ See |. «Old
r

‘consecutive S excuse
‘was that he had been reading “Anthony Adverse” ... An interesting
study in comparative education.

 

Dalhousie students contribute
$20,000.00 per ‘year to Famous
Players through the medium of the
Capitol, Garrick, and Casino Theatres. Who says that advertising
in the “Gazette” doesn’t pay?

 

_ Russia’s ‘admittance to the League
of Nations is no doubt the greatest
event since the withdrawal
Japan. .. . “People come and people
go, “yet nothing “ever ‘happerts.”

 

Approximately 1500 fans attended
the American football game Thanksgiving “morning, yet a ‘mere handful
attended the Dalhousie-United Game
the preceding Saturday. ‘“What’s
wrong with English “Rugby?

 

“They’ve discovered a new insect
called a golf moth. It does 18 holes
‘m one day.”

NOTICE

All Budgets for Students’
Societies for the year are to be
handed to the Secretary-Treasurer of the Students’ Council,
Murray Rankin, 22 Coburg Rd.,
by Monday night, October 15.

Dal Book Club

All new students are cor
dially invited to jein.

The Club has on its shelves hundreds of newly published books which are not
obtainable elsewhere in “Halifax. Two books may be taken
; ‘out at one time, and ‘kept as

long at two week. There is
no PER DIEM charge.

Special fee for students:
one dollar per annum.

_ The Book Club is housed in
‘the Gym Building, where it
may be inspected.

 
  
 

of.

  
 

FRESHMEN TO
PRODUCE SHOW

With a freshman show scheduled
for presentation before the expiration of three weeks, Hal Taylor,
President of the Glee Club, is working hard, in co-operation with the
ever-willing-to-help Joe Connolly, to
get the voices of the FreshmanFreshette chorus in trim for the
show. The first practice was held
on Friday last, when about twentyfive rusty-throated lads and lassies
of Class ’88 appeared for the first
rehersal which had been announced as one at which the whole
class was expected. However, Joe
got to work at once, and for an
hour and a half put them through
the mill on several songs, with a
peculiarly incessant stréss on a
certain four words, “and so do I”.
“Jimmy” MeNeill of Glace Bay
presided at the ivory in ‘great style,
/providing a very necessary impetus

|to the efforts of the Frosh to keep |

time, apply the right volume, and
lay the stress where it belongs.
Again on Tuesday the original
number turned out for further
struggling with their vocal chords

?

being reinforced by another continIt was revealed,

gent of new studes.
that the presentation to be given is
a rip-snorting one-act play, replete
with fun, frolic, and foolishness.
‘Cn Wednesday afternoon all

| gathered again at five o’clock in the

‘Gym for more practicing and it is

spain, the ‘five great ‘intended that this will continue
eA are haying every afternoon until the show is

ready for presentation. A tentative
ist has been. chosen, which met ‘n
Munro Room Wednesday even
   

  

DEPARTMENT

:

HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA, OCTOBER 12, 1934

‘The immediate interest is to have

‘| Society as set forth in its Consti‘|tution are:

ra start on the story of the

 
  

   

MEDICAL SOCIETY
HOLDS MEETING

At the annual meeting of the
Students’ Medical Society of Dalhousie University, held on Friday,
October 5th, at the Public Health
Centre, the following officers were
elected for the ensuing year:
President—Eldon L. Eagles, Monc
ton, N. B.
Vice-President—Louis Perea, Porto
Rico,
Secretary—Gordon Lea, Victoria, P.
E. I.

Treasurer--Harold Devereaux, Char-| the belief

|

lottetown, P. E. I.
Other positions appointed by the
meeting were:

Manager of the Medical Book Bur- si

eau—Charlie J. MacDonald.
Manager of the Medical Football
Team—Frank Wishart.

The Committee on Studies is to
consist of the presidents of each
class in Medicine.

A renewed interest in the Society
was shown by the large number
present and by the discussion which
took place concerning plans for an
active program for the coming year.

a meeting, at an early date, for
which an interesting program is being arranged.

The chief objects of the Medical

(a) The advancement of Medical
Science. The promotion of ‘good
fellowship for the ‘mutual benefit of
its members. rie

(b) The co-operation of ‘its ‘miémbers in the promotion of their

cig mts, vy

(c) ‘The dealing ‘with of ‘all ‘mat4|

térs for the good ‘wélfare of ‘the
Society. )

OF EROTICS

The President, Board of Governors and Senatus Acade
|micus of Dalousy University take great pleasure in announc
ing, to the public in general -and to the students of Dalousy
in particular, the founding and opening of a new Department,

the Department of Eroties.

This -foundation has been made

possible through the generosity of Mr. B. A. A. Shearer of
Shearer & Shearer Hosiery Mills, Inc., Trurow, N. E.

Mr. Shearer writes:

“T-am_a graduate of Dalousy.

While there I was known

as ‘Sheep’ Shearer ’00 and was:considered one of the outstanding men-on the campus. I made a name for myself in athletics,
dramatics and debating, and a great. future was -prophesized for
me. It is true I have achieved success in:a small way, but I
find that my life has been empty, null and void, as it were. I
was a success in business and a failure in love; a.giant among

men and a pigmy among women.
cause I was never taught to makelove.

Why? The answer is beIt is to save this .gen
eration from going through the mental torture, the chance
picking up of knowledge, the groping in the dark, -as -it were,
which I have suffered that I make this foundation of the De
partment of Erotics.”

 

The University wishes to:announce the following courses:

Department of Erotics.
Head of Department—Wadd A. Mann, D.Ero.
Assistant Professor—U. Xavier Wadd, B.E.
Demonstrators—Miss Gertie Grabbo, Miss Harlene Harlich
Registrar—Miss Dixie Dott.

iL.

Methods of Meeting. M. T.W. T.-F.'S. between other

classes. Text: “Let’s Get Acquainted” by Gosh.

2. Principles of Parking.

S.M.T.W.T.F.S. at convenient

hours. Text: “One Arm Driving and Parking’ by Woods.
Four hours laboratory work a week are required.

3. Arts of Osculation.
“Anatomical Juxtapositions of

4. Pick-ups and their Treatment.
Purely a laboratory course.

course).

Any time after 9.30 P.M. Text:

Orbicular Muscles” Bye & Ble.
(This is not a radio
No text-books are re
quired. References will frequently be made to “Horrible Ex
amples” by Crackey.
5:

The Pitfall of Marriage and How to Avoid It.

Sun
days at 11 A.M. Text: “What Morons Do” by Church.

No student who has failed in Erotics

vanced class.
and laboratory is required.

I may take any ad
There are no fees, but attendance at lectures

Three absences bar a candidate from further instruction.

Any
course. Successful candidates
Img the University seal.

student, male or female, may apply for admission to the

will receive a Certificate bear
All students interested send applications and problems to

Miss
this paper and answer will |
issues.

| Note:
University.

Dixie Dott, Registrar. Department: of Erotics, in care of
be published in ‘the subsequent

This is the only thing given free at Dalousy

 

‘than to “trivial

 

    

  

No. 2

President Stanley
Greets New Students

 

Welcoming the freshman class and bidding them “Bon
voyage” on their voyage to greater knowledge at a meeting in

‘the gymnasium, President Stanley last Thursday greeted the

first body of students to enter Dalhousie with their matriculation requirements completed in full.

Declaring “We shall expect much of you,” the President
urged the new class to pay more attention to being “students”

, ephemeral, second-and-third-rate things.” In
of universities, he said, ‘the world has been plunged

into a desperate plight” because of “the folly of men” and
“their neglect of first principles in knowledge and morality.”

COT CG

The C. O. T. C. wants a bannex
year, but what’s to be done about
it? When they had their annual
smoker and pep talk last week “a
smaller crowd than they wished”
turned up, and thus had emerged a
feeling that Dalhousie students are
not paying as much attention to potential war as chauvanism would
require.

On Saturday and Sunday of this
week the soldiers will don their
khaki uniforms and set out for
MacNab’s Island and Bedford shooting ranges, for rifle practice.

Commanding officers this -year
are: Major A. K. Griffin, O.C.; Capt.
‘G. Vibert Douglas, A. Co.; Capt. A.
Stanley ‘Walker, N. Co.

DANCING OFF _

 

ie

 

%

 

_ "Treading heavenly measures to

|the swinging rhythms of Jerry
‘| Naugler and ‘his orchestra in the

ballroom of the Nova Scotian Hotel,
approximately 100 couples danced
contentedly from nine until two
o’clock on Monday evening.

The number just suiting the
beautiful floor, and the music all that
the men of Dal-hoo-sie and their
dream-girls could desire, the even
od

rast

Speaking in particular to students
here for the first time, President
Stanley said in part:

“We shall expect much of you,
and perhaps in fairness I ought to
warn you, that you must not, ‘therefore, presume too much on the
laurels you have already won. Just
as we Said, before you came, that
a matriculant must be a matriculant, so we shall expect you, now
that you are here, to be university
students. Or, to make it simpler,
let me say, students. We shall expect you to pay more -regard .to
things that ultimately matter, than
to trivial, ephemeral, -second-andthird-rate things. The whole »world
to-day is in a desperate plight. We
in the universities believe ‘that it ds
SO, quite needlessly, as a result .of
the folly of men, as a result of
their neglect of first principles .in

‘ knowledge and morality; we may
even say, as a result of their ig- _
norauce, their innate and uncured =
ignorance, of those things which

‘universities worthy .of the name

have taught for hundreds of -years.

True, the word university thas
been bandied about, just-as.the word
knowledge, and the word truth,
have been bandied about, until they

‘have ‘come to mean less than noth
ing. Most men nowadays say that
they ‘know a thing if they have read
it in ‘the ‘headlines of the newspapers. But more than 2600 years

ing passed quickly—too quickly—|@80 ‘a man wrote that “the i gods

away.

A few Montreal boys

4
i

provided | knowledge.”

have made sweat a preliminary to
Those of .you who

some exciting variety in the pro-| have worked in the hayfield, atdum
gramme, and, all in all, it can be
truly said that the belated class ’34
party was to everyone’s complete
satisfaction. The eommittee
charge, composed of Ernie Richardson, “Chuc” Lorway, Bord Stoddard,
Doug Crease ,and Hal Connor, must
be given credit for the excellent
fashion in which the dance came off.

Jerry, bearing in mind the marvellous performance which he had
given at the -Glee Club last week,
did himself proud in rendering the
favorites of today -and yesterday.
The chaperones were Mr. and Mrs.
H. F. Cowan.

NOTICE
There will be a Parade. of the
CO. ToC, “all ranks, for drill
and lectures in the Gym, Monday, October 15th, at 8.00. A
large turnout requested.

 

| NOTICE

Attention is called to the
fact that in order to provide
more time for football practice, at the request of the

Council of Students, it has
been agreed that beginning
with Wednesday, Oct. 10th
and ending Wednesday, Oct.

3lst, the afternoon classes,
now beginning on the half
hour will be moved forward
one half hour.

This does not apply to the
classes in the Medical School
that require Hospital -attendance of the 3rd, 4th and 5th
year, nor to the Dentistry
Department.

 

 

bering, at mining, know what
Sweat is. You know that it does

not come while you are sitting in a

in| Movie, or listening to a radio. And

you all know at least the sensations
that arise from your games and
athletic exercises: the tense effort,
and determined will, that conquer
the weariness of muscle. So it us
with learning. It ‘has always .been
an axiom that learning comes by
suffering.

One final word. I think mos
us are wearing too long a face
nowadays. We have heard the word
depression so often that we have
forgotten how many cheerful things
there are. There is still cas much
fun in life as there ever was, and
I hope I shall see and hear evidence
of that in the Dalhousie “Gazette”
and in your debates! I wish you all
a very happy and prosperous session.”

 

The President, in recalling his.remarks at last year’s Convocation’ in
regard to the tragic conditions in
Germany under the Hitler regime,
stated that the University has
been fortunate enough to benefit by
the loss of that nation in securing
the services of an exile from its
soil, Dr. Lothar Richter, who will
occupy the chair of Professor of
German Literature, a study which

\has been sadly neglected of. late in

this part of the world.

It was also announced that Professor R. A. MacKay will be relieved during his leave of absence
by Professor R. MacG. Dawson, .a

\graduate of Dalhousie, and a native

of Bridgewater, who has for some
years been Professor of Political
(CONTINUED ON PAGE TWO)

 
  
 
  
   
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  

EDITORIAL STAFF

| Editors
4 me | F. E. GOUDGE
i: ; J . R. H. aoe B. 6295
I News Editor
* ARTHUR MERKEL
B. 5108

Literary Editor

AL REID
, B. 5827

Sports Editor
nt: BILL DAVIS
. B. 4384

Assistant
ARTHUR MEAGHER
B. 2886

Business Manager
C. D. WALLACE ROWLINGS
B. 4647

oe
4 DEAN SMITH AND THE LAW SCHOOL

When last summer it was announced that Dean Smith had
; resigned to go west, it seemed to many law students that the
i end must come to the law school. His magnetic personality,
. his keenness of intellect and his ability to make clear the most
difficult problem, to illustrate the law, had made him loved
and admired by all his students. His going was not entirely
regretted, for it was with pride that his pupils read that
he was to be President of the University of Manitoba, numer!cally the third largest. in Canada. His pupils have no doubt
but that he will stimulate intellectual life there and be capable
of handling the difficult financial situation in which that institution finds itself at present. But his going from Dalhousie
[ left a feeling of despair. Who would be appointed to fill his
place—who could fill his place? These were the questions in
| everyone’s mind. Pes
a Today the law school is still here, working as it did in
former years. Perhaps the average student was too young to
realize that an old institution is something more than its
\ leaders and that it will be carried on by its own momentum.
| Or perhaps the Governors of the University were wise in the
selection of the new dean. At any rate, under Vincent Macdonald, the same old spirit of the law school, and there is none
| like it elsewhere on the campus, is very much in existence.
he) Should President Smith pay a visit to-morrow, he would be
___ pleased to note the smoothness of the workings of the present
ee organization—professor and student working together. He
, would be particularly pleased to note the increased student in1 terest in the activities of the Moot Court.
re _ The going of Sydney Earle Smith left quite a hole in the
~~ yoll of Dalhousie’s leaders, but, frankly, it now seems evident
it ean be filled. Dalhousians, present and past, will wish
| _ President Smith every measure of success and feel proud as he
continues to rise. But they can assure him the Law School
_ will carry on the spirit which he boasted was peculiar to “this
little corner of the Forrest Building’.

 

.

a
a

=
a >
a +e

COMMON ROOM

Dalhousians have long felt the necessity for a Common
Room or some appropriate spot where odd moments could be
spent to advantage either in social contacts or engrossed in the
contents of periodicals placed at their disposal.

The need of such a room has been partly realized through

the efforts of interested members of the Faculty. So that today the male students can boast of the new facilities of their
smoking Room in the basement of the Arts Building, while
the co-eds also enjoy improvements to their Recreation Room.
It is a well recognized fact that Dalhousie loses a great deal
in not having a residential college. The close association and
Interchange of opinions and ideas between the students is less
likely to occur because of this condition. But we believe that
this tendency can be somewhat rectified by the intelligent use
of a Common Room. Under such a condition students who
otherwise would not associate with their fellow collegians
would be tempted to do so and thereby get more out of
University life.
Re _ Undoubtedly the recent renovations are important steps
p in the right direction toward clean, comfortable Common
Rooms where semi-popular magazines and books of common
interest are available to all. In the absence of such an Utopian
Common Room the present facilities adequately fill the need.

_ The equipping of the above mentioned rooms in the Arts
Building represents a considerable financial outlay on the part
of the University and is significant of the interest and trust
that University officials have for the student body. We hope
the privilege will not be abused; Dalhousians should govern
themselves accordingly.

= ee
we ees
,

-~

THE BOOK CLUB

Tn announcement in this Gazette states the Book Club is|
now open for membership for the coming year. There is probably no organization on the campus more deserving of student
support. And there is probably no deserving organization which
gives so much in return for the little it asks.

Organized two years ago to fill a need the MacDonald
Library was unable to satisfy, to enable students to read recently published books, the Book Club has operated successfully |

3 ever since, though less by student support than by donations
i from interested parties. Last year, hoping to attract more

4 student members, the membership fee was reduced to a nominal
figure, one dollar. This plan, which resulted in a larger enrol
+

p> ment, will be continued this year.

oe e Book Club seeks to supply books of current interest
a which are not technical enough or lack sufficient academic
bs, rating to be purchased from the slim funds of the Library. It
- has, for instance, recently printed books on travel, history,
ba ~ economies, biography and autobiography. The Book Club is
"i centered in the Alumni Room at the Gymnasium, where it is

___ always open to inspection.

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

COMMENT ||| Rambling

“The Moving Finger writes; and,
having writ, moves on.”
—Omar Khayyam.

 

THIS BUSINESS OF
UNIVERSITIES

George Ramsay, Ninth Earl of
Dalhousie uttered the following
words in the year 1820—“This college of Halifax is founded for the
instruction of Youth in the higher
Classics and in all philosophical
studies From this college
every blessing may flow over the
Country.” It is not meagre comfort
to know that this pledge has been
kept. Dalhousie has contributed
generously to the political, commercial and educational welfare of this
growing Dominion.

As this institution spread so too
did the enrolment increase. But in
the Fall of 1934 the registration is
reported to be a little below the last
few years. This decrease seems to
be lamented by some—but should it
be abhorred? Is not the function
of a University to serve aS an exponent of the highest intellectual
life of the country wherein it is
situated? Should we not decry this
tendancy to produce mass education ?

We are fortunate at Dalhousie in
that we have escaped the tendency
of many American and near Canadian Universities to pattern the
University on the lines of the
modern factory.

Most of the Presidents have
sought to make their institutions as
large as possible and have been
judged mediocre or great on their
ability to extract money from legislators and Alumni. Seemingly they
thought that organization could take
the place of a passion for organization. Even a passion is valueless if
enthusiasm is not guided by knowledge of the proper function. This
raises the question as to the function of a University. There is only
space here to note the change of

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
  
   
 

FRATERNITIES

The fraternity has become an important part of college life in all
but a few of the institutions of socalled higher learning in North
America, and it is thus at Dalhousie. Is the fraternity on this
campus a sink of moral and social
iniquity, a necessary but temporary
evil, an institution serviceable till
replaced by a better, or the ideal
college social institution? We find
exponents of each of these views at
Dalhousie.

The Anti-Fraternity Argument.

Those who hold to the first two
of the above notions agree in their
essential criticism. They differ,
however, in that the “sink of iniquity”’ men do not, as do the
others, realize that if they abolish
the fraternity they must, as President Stanley suggested in his recent Report, provide for “the
healthy gregarious instinct of the
college student” by some other
means, such as dormitories, diningrooms and common-rooms.

The opponents of the fraternity
system point out certain evils which
they claim exist as regards the students in fraternities, those outside
them, and the university as a whole.
The fraternity is, they say, a centre
where students, devoid of restraint,
may and usually do raise considerable Hell. It also tends to establish an invidious distinction which
may have injurious effects on the
characters of both member and nonmember, between what have been
called the smart and the smarting.
This distinction is made more
noticeable by the tendency of the

 

the purpose of a university and its
degree. In the first Universities, a
degree was a certificate of competence to teach, preach or beseech.
Later, it became a permission to
practise a profession. But recently
in some institutions, it has become
a sort of Black Magic which will
provide a job and help fill in the
aimless adolescent years. Education has really become a commodity,
sold for dollars and cents and measured by time. Each State, Prov
ince and Locality has pressed for the
establishment of a university in their
respective district. This is epitomized in the Maritime Provinces.
Here we have eight or nine universities of varying sizes struggling,
soliciting, begging and in some cases
unfairly competing in order that they
might keep afloat. All this takes
place in three provinces with a population less than the city of Montreal. What scholastic achievements
could be wrought, what possibilities
for the development of research work
if there was only one University in
these provinces ?

This change in educational principles was the core of President Stanley’s address in New York two years
ago. In short he said, that educational facilities and population had
evolved disproportionately during
the last century.

The fault does not lie with the
students, but rather with the organizers of Universities and the high
schools. The students usually enter
the University with their brain dulled and interest killed by the dead

routine and memory work of matri- |

culation schools. Unhappily from
the moment we register, until the
day we walk down the aisle with

sheep skin in hand, everything tells |

us to look upon education as a task

'to be completed rather than a pro
cess to be enjoyed. An elaborate
system of credits makes English a
distinction of so many poems, essays, or novels, rather than a
breathing of the music of language.
The same is true of many other
courses and the net result is that
fifty out of a hundred students work
to pass, forty-five of the others
work for grades or don’t give a
“damn”, only five, in all probability,
snap their fingers at the system
and seek culture.

 

 

 

the development of

fraternity to acquire and to operate in its own interests the balance
of power in student politics, enthroning a ruthless oligarchy whose
activities are detrimental to college
life as a ‘whole. The fraternity
system is, moreover, a, deterrent to
strong college spirit, in that it divides the
student body into a number of contending factions whose united action
for any common purpose it is difficult to obtain.

The Pro-Fraternity Argument.

The supporters of the Dalhousie
fraternity system declare that
many of the above accusations apply not at all or only in part to this
university. The fraternities here
are not, they say, miniature barrooms, but rather pleasant homes
for students of like interests and
ideals. They do not deny that fraternities play politics at Dalhousie,
but declare that it is so only for the
higher offices of student government.
sphere of sport, interference in politics is practically taboo. They claim
also that fraternity-bred snobbishness is the exception rather than
the rule.

The fraternity supporter asks

us to consider what would happen.

if fraternities were. abolished at

Dalhousie, accompanied or not by |

the establishment of official residences. Substitute groupings of
college students, lacking the alumni
backing and the powerful: incentive

which consciousness of historic con- |

tinuity gives towards a line of conduct decently respectful of public
opinion and regardful of accepted
standards, would promptly take
place.

Less responsible and more acci- |
dental the new groups would be less |
in tune with both college spirit and |

academic aims than the present fraternity with its compulsory academic standards and its high ideals,
which, after all, are more than mere
bunkum. This indeed is the strong
est argument for the retention of |
the fraternity as an organ of col-|

lege life,

Both sides in this apparently
perpetual dispute admit that conditions might be improved by the
organization of an interfraternity

Students at Dalhousie do not take | board of Pan-Hellenie council to

alarm at a slight decrease in attendance. Is it not better to continue

to serve our country than to claim|ticularly with

|
|

control and keep in touch with what
goes on in Greek-letter circles, parrushing activities,

eredit for having established mass|which are now simply cut-throat

education at Studley ?

(CONTINUED ON PAGE THREE)

We must! encounters.

(CONTINUED ON PAGE THREE)

 

eee ea Np eRe

Elsewhere, especially in the |

 

Gazette

Book Review

 

It is with much inward misgiving, ;

even with trembling, that I undertake the task of reviewing the Dalhousie “Review”. If I condemn
with “faint praise, or be too hearty
in my enthusiasm, if I criticize
without proper authority, blame
neither, but my inexperience. Be
disarmed by my naiveté.
Although by no means the most
erudite, nor even the most instructive, the articles entitled “Some
Literary Titbits”, by Mr. C. F.
Lloyd, is perhaps the most pleasing
to the non-professional mind. I confess that I read with delight “to
say that this more mature appreciation of the spiritual and intellectual values of literature, as distinguished from what might be called
the physical, does not represent a
real advance in one’s culture from
the imperfect to the finer, in all respects higher, is to deny all intellectual evolution whatever, and _ to
confess that we remain schoolboys
till we drop into the grave.” My
delight, however, was lessened and
my faith in “the discrimination usually looked for in the upper sixth”
diminished when Mr. Lloyd remarks
later in the article that among the
authors whose certain scenes he
reads and rereads are Walpole and
Wodehouse. Walpole can be tolerated, but to even mention Wodehouse in the same connection with
day) for several years on his
Thackery, Dickens, Austin and Balzac is blasphemy. That may be
merely a youthful prejudice, so consider my statement of little or no
value.
Equally pleasing to the non-scientific mind is the article, “IcelandicCanadian Poetry”, by Mr. Watson
Kirkeomell. To one who knows
little or nothing of the subject, Mr.

October 12, 1934

 

  
   

 
 

Stereotypes
of Students

THE MEDICAL STUDENT
The medical student is the most
conceited student at Dalhousie. He
says, “I work hardest, I pay the
most, I serve mankind. Who indeed
is more useful to society than the
doctor? I shall be a doctor.” And
so he struts about the campus,
books and bones under his arm, to
tell stories of his “stiff” and boast
how many were plucked last year.

The medical student loves to
argue, even more so than the law
student. And while one can possibly argue successfully against a
law student, especially if he is hazy
on the point at issue, no one has
ever out-argued a medical student
—on any subject. His opinion, once
stated, is irrevocable.

The medical student forever
grumbles of having to study—he
cannot see why he should not be a
doctor simply because he is interested in medicine or early in life
took to cutting frogs, birds and
squirrels to see what made them
work. He would like, for instance,
to zo out in the world to experiment (even more than he does topatients till he learns how far he
can go and how much they will
stand before dying on him.

Put any two medical students together and they start complaining
about their fees. Yet the medical
school beggars the University, and
for it the rest of the students in
non-laboratory classes must pay
extra high fees and lack proper
library facilities.

Promptly -as soon as he graduates, the medico starts complaining
that no one will pay him—and wonders why his patients protest at his
price. Yet he lives very well,
drives a car or two and acquires a
fine big house. After he has been

 

Kirkcomell’s manner of giving information is sound and good: he
neither bewilders one with unnecessary details, nor burdens one with
formal statistics, yet somehow,
succeeds in being particular enough
to satisfy even an authority on the
matter.

But it was when I read Dr. Nichol’s article, “Science and Letters: a
Problem in Definition”, that the
full realization of my inability to
criticize adequately come to me. His
words are so pungent and vigorous;
his method of analysis so keen and .
telling, that I find my words “mere- | President Stanleyly futile and of no effect”. I an (CONTINUED FROM PAGE ONE)
think of nothing better than to|Science at the University of Sasquote: “and the moment a man|katchewan. He received his Docputs wit or charm in the first place | torate of Science at the University
and truth in the second place, his of London, and taught at one time
career as an artist is over, and he| 2 the University of Pittsburgh. He
should, to paraphrase Mr. House-|1iS recognized as a leading authority
man, forsake the business of letters|0M constitutional affairs, and will
and betake himself to any honest | Very appropriately fill the position

(CONTINUED ON PAGE THREE) of Professor of Political Science.

out for some time, he goes into
politics where his student ability to
out-argue anyone does him well.
The medical student believes in
the statement, “The medical man
can do no wrong.” And in the name
of medicine he tortures animals and

while that it
good.

George Bernard Shaw was right.
No wonder his “Doctor’s Dilemma”
sold so well.

is for the common

 

| See the New Winter Overcoats at Shane’s

Clodhes for the

Formal Season

The Formal Season will soon be well under way,
sO we suggest that you drop in and look over our |
stock of TUXEDOS, DRESS SHIRTS, TIES,

|

 

 

 

SCARVES AND JEWELLERY.

| See our SPECIAL TUXEDO OUTFIT with Silk
Vest at

6 Abode aE ee ee is $25.00 |
OENOPS BE. 2. te bk oc tee $30.00 and $35.00 |
We have a SPECIAL LAB COAT at....... $2.25

Also a full range of TRENCH COATS from $6.50

Shane's Men's Shop

30 Spring Garden Road

 

 

 

Discount of 10% to Dal Students

humans, deceiving the people all the

 

 
    
 
    

(To a Co-Ed.)

ie yon can keep your head when all about you
1 osing theirs on some new movie star,

5 OF see your friends go on a date without you
And not regret— you know what parties are.
_ If you can wait and not be tired by waiting

When boy-friend fails to come at nine or ten,
Though due at eight, and never start berating
When he appears—it is the way of men.

If you can dream—hbut not make dreams your master—
Of handsome men all strong and clean of speech,
And wish your sweetheart were a little faster
- When happiness is quite within’ your reach,
If you can laugh to hear the words you’ ve spoken

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE.’

Page Three

 

C tvilization and Barlarism

So confined for their undisciplined ranks is the pattle
ground provided by the Audette Report on the flogging of nineteen Indian boys at Shubenacadie that not even the rival
armies of Psychology are likely to venture into the field for
fear of finding themselves, instead of at blows, embarrassingly
in each other’s embraces. But, in spite of the general lack of
interest shown in the Commissioner’ s findings to date, the
sentimentalists will surely get round in time to flourishing a
few handkerchiefs on behalf of our “poor red brothers’; and,
sooner or later with chapter and with verse in the name of the
one and only true faith, the bigots may be counted on to confound Commissioner Audette with his own and Father MacKie’s presumptious unworthiness. The Report, however, has
implications which extend beyond the boundaries of formal
psychology; and the methods of Father MacKie may be condemned without reference to prayer books or the color of the

 

TO MAKE A LONG TALE
SHORT

 

“

Twisted and punned at your companion’s whim,
Or walk in rain and give your hair a soakin‘
And laugh at it—because you’ve walked with him.

If you can gather all your little treasures
And risk them on the virtue of a friend,
Who wastes them all in his unthinking pleasures,
Yet may return to you when fortunes end.
If you can force your face to keen composure
When heart is aching from some careless word,
Or listen to a scandal’s hushed disclosure
And later act as if you never heard.

If you can prove the head upon your shoulders
Is filled with thoughts of more than clothes and game,
While deep within you is a fire which smoulders, ;
A fire which hasn’t yet burst into flame.
If you can cook and aren’t sophisticated,
Yet able to enjoy the social whirl—
Your grace and charm can not be over-rated,
And—which is more—I’d like to meet you, gir]!

KIPYARD RUDLING.

 

‘The Fourth Book of Bunk

CHAPTER II.

(1) And so it came to pass
that on the anniversary of the
fourth year of his reign, King Karl
called all his children into the Geem
and bid them all a grand welcome
back to the landes of Dal. “You
exist in fertile pastures, my children, ” spake the King; “take advantage of all opportunity.” Play and
work were made for you, but see to
it that you find the Golden Mean.

(2) Hardly had the words passed
oF m the lips of the King than the

scribed upon the Tabloids of Rankeene and it thereby becomes the
Law.

(6) After passing the Grid the
Scribe of Bunce passeth to the Geem
where the Frosh are gathered together to see how great their master
Sophs perform— And lo they are
sorely disappointed for it was not
the Sophs whom they were called
upon to giggle at, but many others
who could add to their sufferings.
Ruthe of the Krandeyell tribe sang
oft and chanted of the love in Bloom

- Mighty Council of The Studes say

 

hty warriors of the Grid met in
‘ene first battle with the mighty tribe
of the United. At the head of the
BhenGahls_ of Dal there was none

ey

and of the Seas and Trees. There
was also the Dr. Hide and Mr. Jekyll who frightened the poor Frosh
speechless. And then the Sailor
other than the trusty MakKaritee, | Skaaling who jigged into the hearts
who cometh from the bowels of the of the Froshmen- who ‘longed to be
. earth—the miners of CapeBrett.|at Sea. The Geepsy Song and the
He shouted at the Dal men loud and| Fiddler pleased the Frosh who also
long, teaching new tactics, and soon| applauded long and loud when Fig
hoped for success. But the Inter-' the Dent strummed upon-his Strings
Medes (they who fight the little |and while Sam the Stepper stepped.
men) looketh up and wonder why | Then came the dance—the famous
they are not fed with the words of Glee Kloob Bump. And many waxwisdom of the manly miner. But lo, ed sore while the Frosh were lightly
none are forthcoming, tho they wax|tapped and the Senjunrs stole the
their wrath till they are sore. Party. The Green Grosh looked up
(3) The mighty BhenGhals| and wondered if it was always thus,
marcheth out to battle themselves,|while something whispered yea
for the children of Dal forget that| verily it is seldom otherwise.
it is Battle day—they hide their eyes} (7) But the poor Frosh have
and forget the men of the Grid who/ other things to bear, and their days
fighteth for the honour of Little Col-| of suffering are as yet not at an
lege. But still this maketh the|end, For in the Supreme Moohut
fierce Tigers all the mightier and/Court in the Lande of Law they
they wax their wrath upon the|must appear to answer severe
brave United and defeat them|charges—yea ‘very severe. The
sorely. mighty mouth of Rande the Short,
(4) \When the Children of Dal} who hails from the town of Yahrhear of the victory they suddenly} mouth, calls the Green Frosh into
remember of the battle and they ap-| the Sanctity of the Court where rest
plaud the victors, but the mighty | only noble men and where the Lords
warriors of the Grid speaketh not.|Maheevehy, Hhaansoon, Tthurlohw,
They applaud the brave Thomp-|and Lahwrence are to judge the Fate
son—who at one time led the Frosh|of the Little Men. The wit of |
and who is now settled in the Lande | Mahrgoulhin pronounced the charges
of Law—and then upon their should-| while Sir Speck, he of the COTC
ers they take the comely Crese—|and who liketh to be called Major,
whose look maketh the dwellers of | pleads pity for the Frosh so they
Shee-Reff-Hall tremble within their | may live to join the COTC, and sursandals. One after another each|viye the greater pleasure of going
and every warrior is feted and the |to real Battle. But the great voice
Studes whisper that the days of|of Jay Bee boometh “NO”—they
Weekwire, Makkdonald the Red and| have sinned and they must suffer
Orton the Tiny and other heroes of|and be sentenced, The Frosh wer é.
_the Grid are returning once again | however, secretly glad, for now they
to the Lande of Dal. could repent for their sins alive,
(5) But then in another far Cor-| rather than pactise the art of war
ner of the Lande a new Bande of|at COTC and thus go looking for
wariors ariseth and they too fight) Death.
for the Honour of Dal. They, however, use different weapons which
prove to make the battle more furious. These men are also brave and
are led by Mahndelstahm the Light
who haileth from the busy Shores
of our friendly Neighbour. These
mighty men—who alas lack a name
and who are also lacking pants of
the same variety—bring Fame to
the Halls of Dal, but they are
neither feted nor praised for the

 

     
    
    
    
   
   
   
  
   
     
  
   
  
    
   
   
  
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   
  
 
 
   
 
 
 

Student’s Special

SUITS or TOPCOATS
perfectly dry cleaned
and pressed

$1.25

Sponged and Pressed, 45c.
Called for and delivered.

Telephone Lorne 2323.

e 9 se s
Cousins’ Limited
Dry Cleaners - Dyers - Tailors
“None better—anywhere”

     
   
   
  
   
   
     
 
 

-“NO”—one bande of warriors is
enough for the protection of the
| Lande of Dal—And their word is in
  
   
  

backs on which his lash descended.

A short time ago one of the Halifax dailies reported that a boy in
the Industrial School, while doing
gymnastics on some overhead pipes
in the washroom, had fallen and
(horror of horrors!) sprained his
wrist. “The boy,” the report read,
was supposed to have been washing.” It is even thus that we discover what the Lord requirieth of
us. The Audette Report contains
nothing quite so delightfully naive
as this to work on. But what it
lacks in literary finesse it makes up
for in direction. In extenuation of
Father MacKie’s wholesale flogging
bee Commissioner Audette reminds
us, among other things, that the Indian mind is just emerging from
barbarism. Now if we can discover
what this reprehensible barbarism
is, the other. side of the street
should be of some use to us when
we meet distinguished looking
judges with walking sticks. To
this end let us employ a thoroughly
logical process of elimination. The
question: What is this barbarism
from which the Indian mind is just
emerging ?

In the Golden Age of the North
American Redskin, immortalized in
the precise language of Cooper and
symbolized in a goodly supply of
white men’s scalps, the braves maintained an exemplary respect and
consideration for fellow warriors of
their own tribe. Now, unless Commissioner Audette is attempting a
grand transvaluation of values, it
cannot possibly have been in this
that their barbarism consisted. Not
so exemplary, however, was their
regard for their squaws. But it is
a moot question, and one to which
the nations which so lately confounded God with his hybrid allegiances may give long debate,
whether a society which lives by the
sword should permit any ties of affection to grow up between its warriors who go forth to die and. their
mothers who bore them. Well, then,
were they barbaric because of their
tribal ‘and national warfare? How
much bird seed has Geneva left for
the Dove of Peace? . Could it be
that they slurped their soup? If
any dissatisfied reader is not convinced that this process of elimination has gone far enough, let him
take it up himself. For my own
part I am certain that the barbarism
dians was not something peculiar to
their blood but consisted in the fact,
apparently well established, that
they stole money and lied about it.
This means, then, that they have

of the Shubenacadie In-|

 

traces of barbarism in the aforementioned Golden Age.

Having deduced that Indian boys
should not lie nor steal we may consider briefly the justification which
Commissioner Audette offers for
civilization’s method of eradicating
barbarism. “All human _ government,” the Report reads, “rests in
the last resort upon physical pain.”
What is this “last resort’? Was
there by any chance a revolutionary
movement afoot among the Indians
of Shubenacadie which, like the rat
the U. S. Congressman smelled, had
to be “nipped in the bud’? Is it
possible that nineteen Indian boys,
inspired perhaps by the chance
resurrection of some tobacco store
chieftain, were conspiring to steal
enough money to buy back their
happy hunting grounds? Or did we
ave here a comparatively simple
problem in human conduct, involving no great social catastrophe, to
the solution of which impoverished
minds brought nothing but the instruments of tyranny? Thank God
for George Washington, who confessed to having cut down the
cherry tree. And fortunate indeed
for the rest of us that the sparrow
owned up to having bumped off
Cock Robin.

It is a source of deep disappointment to people of any sensibilities
whatsoever that Commissioner Audette could not have seen his way
clear to recommend that the whole
Indian population be flogged quite
to death before it has forced upon
it the whhite man’s civilization.

H und reds at

Council Dance

Hundreds of students last night
enjoyed the Students’ Council dance
at the gym. With many detracked
to the Freshie-Soph dance at King’s,
there was a comfortable amount of
room and for the first time in the
history. of gymnasium dances a
couple could tear around the floor
in any one of the crazy jazz steps
of today without bumping into at
least three other couples.

With the comparative scarcity of
guests, there was a corresponding
increase in the amount of ice cream
and cake available for everybody,
and another record was set up for

Students’ Council dances when Ted \.

Crease was able to come out on the
stage and announce “ “Seconds will
be served.”

Excellent. music, chiefly of the
hotcha variety was dished out thru
the night by George Sinclair and his
band.

Although the Council had to arrange for the dance at a special
session and hold it sooner than in
emerged into barbarism and not out | tended, the party was quite a suc
of it. The logical minded will see
how consistent this

FRESHIE
SOPH’

DANCE
SOON

 

 
   
 
 

 

MacLeod, Balcom

Limited

DRUGGIST

 

 

  

HALIFAX and BEDFORD

conclusion is,
with our failure to discover any |

 

cess and on the whole students ad
judged the evening most enjoyable. |

Chaperones were Professor and|
Mrs. C. L. Bennet and Mrs. Murray |
MacNeil,

HALIFAX TAXI CO.
at sour B-7376

Service
Lowest Rate to Students.

   

  

 

Everyman’s
Library

 

    

  

       
   
   
 

   
    
   
   

  
   
    
   

Now offers 1000 volumes of the
world’s finest literature. In
the near future we are bringing in a large renewal shipment. Avail yourself of the
opportunity of having the
books you desire come along
with this shipment. The Home
University Library will also be
renewed. Place your orders
now.

DALHOUSIE
UNIVERSITY STORE

 

 

 
  
      
    
      
   
    
  
  
 
   
    

Turret Cigarettes ARE
good! They’re smooth and
cool and mild from start
to finish. Try Turrets today
—"it won’t be long” until
you discover why they're
so popular with those who
know real cigarette quality.

Cigareties

 

pur

ETTES

SAVE THE POKER HANDS

Imperial Tobacco Company of Canada, Limited.

Comment
(CONTINUED FROM PAGE TWO)
thank our University , Governors,
Presidents and Registrars for perserving the words of LieutenantGovernor George Ramsay. We have
at Dalhousie a medical school which
ranks second to none on the Continent, we have a law school which
vies with any in Canada. Our
graduates have found their way to
the top rung of Canadian life and
our present body is composed of the
cream of Maritime Province talent,
and we are captained by a President
nationally famous for his contributions to education. All this has
been accomplished, not by the adoption of “business methods” to our
campus, but rather by the preservation of the true functions of a University, namely to think, to instruct
and later to distribute this knowledge to the betterment of our
democratic institutions and the nation. “Instead of holding the universities in contempt, we ought
rather to endeavor to recall them
to more sober studies?

Rambling(CONTINUED FROM PAGE TWO)

The present writer refuses to advance any opinion on the relative
merits and demerits of the two
cases presented above. Surely, however, if the University wishes to rid
itself of the fraternity system it
must suggest a _ substitute which
will perform the useful services it
performs and not perpetuate its
faults. We must be careful not to

Book Review
(CONTINUED FROM PAGE TWO)

trade for which he is less unfit.
The practice of smartness may be
a commendable thing in boys who
are leaving their powers. It is
also a charming thing to see a
baby put his big toe in his mouth.
Where a grown man comes to us
with a pun or relates his own witicism seriously, we feel somewhat as
we should if he were to sit down in
the street and proceed to emulate
the baby.”

The remaining articles, which I
have not even time to mention, are
interesting and comprehensive, and
especially would I recommend “Philosophy and Education”, by Mr. R.
C. Lodge. The two poems in the
“Review”, “Song of a Queen”, by
Miss Hanson, and “Follow-Follow”,
by Mrs. Bowman, are good, more by
reason. of their contrast than by any
intrinsic merit.

I know my business — BUT
I need your head in it.

Haircuts 25c.

BERT BOWLBY
445 BARRINGTON STREET
(Over Buckley’s)

HALIFAX STEAM LAUNDRY
Limited
Tel. L. 2300, L. 2309, L. 1618
Established 1877.

“Let the Laundry do it”
81-85 West Street
Garrick Street

 

throw out any babies with the bath
water.

FROM THE

| WINNERS "22%,"

For 60 years the REACH Trade
Mark on Sporting Goods has
been a mark of perfection. No
matter what your favorite sport
may be we can supply you with
equipment that will help you
play the game with the best
that’s in you.

Cragg Bros. Co.

Limited.
Hardware & Sporting Goods.
HALIFAX, N. S.

  
   
  
   
 
   

   
   
   

EVERY DAY IS
BARGAIN DAY

AT

TIP
TOP TAILORS

ONE PRICE ONLY

$23.50

MADE TO MEASURE
SUITS, OVERCOATS, FULL
DRESS AND TUXEDO.

     
  
 

  
  
    
   
 

   
    
   

422 BARRINGTON ST.

 

FRASER BROS.
TAXI

25c. Rate

On all Student call.

B-6070

Birks - Balfour

The L. G. Balfour Company, makers of Fraternity
Jewellery, have entered into an agreement with
Henry Birks & Sons, to
manufacture and distribute
for them in Canada.

  

Better service, and closer
contacts, are thus assured
for Fraternity and Sorority
members.

Henry Birks & Sons

 

Limited

DIAMOND MERCHANTS
Halifax, N. S.

  

  
 
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
   
  

 
  
 
  
    
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
   
   
  
       
 
   
       
     
      
     
 

  
   
  
   
 
   

‘Tigers and Cubs Take

Decisive

 

Points.—Doug Crease Accounts For Nine Points, Three

Converts and a Penz

Coach McCarty’s charges

themselves in their opening game in the City League in a decisive victory over the United Services. Crease’s penalty opened
scoring early in the first half. Soon after the score, each
— lost a forward. Ferguson (Dal)
rvi

y Kick.
gave 
ces were sent from the field for supposed roughing.

It was ey in the second

half when | the Tigers again and
heoriig ‘column. Services’ full
even nee hate y hit into the
back recover J ak uckley’ s attempted dropkick, with

the result that Barnstead, on a nice bit of following up, fell on

the ball for the second score of the day. Crease brought the
total score to eight by a clean convert.

On a pass from Crease, Buckley

dashed over the line for a touch

which Crease stretched into five
points on converting. Before play
had resumed many minutes George
Thompson, speedy half-liner, took in
a loose ball fifteen yards out to run
across the Service line for a score.
Another punt to score was added to
Crease’s laurels. 
Scrum work was even for both
teams heeled the ball to their respective mates an equal number of
times. The Tigers, however, forced
the Services heavily, causing their
opponents to touch for safety a
half-dozen times to one of Dal’s.

Tanton, experienced half, figured
prominently in the plays, while Carl
Stoddard also played a heady game
as picking quarter.

Line-up for Dal—Fullback, Worrell; three-quarters, Kyte, Buckley,
Thompson, Crosley; halves, Stoddard,
Tanton, D. Crease; forwards, Bauld,
Ferguson, Berit, Ross, Peters, Sheppard, Barnstead.

_ It is unfortunate that Henry Ross,

fleet-foot half liner was injured in
practise the day before the game
and was unable to play. ‘Ross’s condition is not of too serious a nature
and it is hoped he will appear in
uniform before long.

INTERMEDIATE | RUGBY
TEAM REGISTER WIN

‘Dal’s entrant in A Section of the
City Intermediate League upheld the

NET STARS ADVANCE IN
INTERCOLLEGIATE LEAGUE

In their efforts to cop the Maritime Intercollegiate Tennis title,
Dal tennis stars easily subdued
Acadia. Taking all but one event,
Dal’s superiority was undoubted and
are almost a sure bet to take the
winner of the New Brunswick section—Mt. A. vs. U. N. B.—at Sackville on Saturday. Don Bauld, energetic manager, has a most promising line-up.

Men’s Singles.

M. Musgrave, Dal, over R. Lockhart—6-3, 7-5.

D. Saunderson, Dal., over T. Cronyn
—6-3, 6-1.

J. Goodwin, Dal, over C. Scoffery—
6-3, 6-1.

E. Stewart, Dal, over T. McDonald
—6-2, 6-1.

Women’s Singles.

Jean Churchill, Dal, over Frances
Roach—6-4, 6-4.

Helen Holman, Dal,
Spicer—6-4, 6-2.

Elsie Long, Acadia, over Betty Mil‘ler—7-5, 6-1.

Isabel Fraser, Dal,
graham—6-3, 6-0.

over Alice

‘over Je éan “In
. Women’s Doubles.
I, and J, Churchill, Dal, over .J.
Ingraham and F. Roach — 6-3,
3-6, 7-5.
B. Miller. and H. Holman, Dal, over

| Victories
United Services Kept Scoreless As Dal Seniors Collect Eighteen ||

and Stewart of the

_ the United ‘Service ‘Interméiiates.
_ It was anyone’s game -all the way:

__ g¢ore came in the dying moments of.

_ ball itito the ‘Service's territory and
- a serum was called. The scrum ‘héel
 

honor of the Tigers by a win over A, Spicer and E. Long—2-6, 6-4,

9-7.
tea ‘Doubles.

through, and ‘the ‘only ‘and winning’ M. Musgrave da J. '@eodein
‘over T. "Cronyn “arid ‘R.
‘hart—6-3, ‘7-5.

E. ‘Stewart ‘and D. Saunderson, ; Dai,
over ©, ‘Scoffery ‘and D. Dem‘mings—6-3, ‘6-3.

| , Mixed Doubles.

D. Saunderson. and Miss Holman,
Dal, over E. Scoffery and Miss
Spicer—3-6, 6-1, 9-7.

E.Stewart and Miss Churchill, , Dal,
over D, Demmings ‘and Merge
Roach—6-2, 6-3.

J. Goodwin and Miss Fraser, ‘Dal,
cover T. Cronyn. and Miss De_Long—6-3, 5-7,. 6-2,

M, Musgrave and Miss Miller, Dal,
over R. Lockhart and Miss In
aougraham—4-6, 6:3, 6-2.

‘Dal,
the game. Dal-Cubs had ‘worked ‘the

ed the ‘ball ‘out neatly which ‘was
passed to “Chuck” Lorway. The big
Dal back-field man paused, then with
& well placed drop-Kick sailed over
e bar for the ‘only “Score, “three
minutes before the Whistle.
Services threatened on ‘a return
play on an. attempted drop which
would have tied the ‘score.
Dal—Fullback, Stevens; ‘thréequarters, Rogérs, Lorway, Kyte,
Smith; halves, T. Crease, Webber,
McLélfan: forwards, Webster, Krebs,
Kitz, Becker, Latirénce, Fraser, C.
Millér.

ne — <5 = 5 :

a

Two Smart Styles for Fall in

Satonia Oxfords

ate described below!

ee J

)

Bt Recs
eee

 

Especially suitable for men who like a_ lightweight shoe. Black calf leather.

B—Is a sturdy grain Blucher oxford with stout
leather sole.

These are but two of the many good-looking styles
we’re featuring this Fall.

of ‘shoes for men and young men
leather”

There’s an extensive range
of “solid

construction with graceful, comfortable

shoes from these to-morrow?

pair 4.50

Eatonia BOOTS, PRICE 5.00
Eaton’s—Second Floor.

&T. EATON

MARITIMES

°o

A—Is a sleek Balmoral model with semi- pointed toe.
LIMITED

 

ei ane late llc

styling. Sizes 6 to 11. Why not choose your Fall

———————

‘excellent account ‘of | |

R. ode )

—— SArEerts

| SPORT REV [EW

By TED CREASE

Those amazing haore certainly upset the dope last Saturday by rolling up no less than 18 spoints on Halifax United.
Maybe we were all wrong in our predictions last week, but we
wonder how Dalhousie’s light scrum will stack up against the
weighty Red pack when the Black and Gold battles the Wanderers this Saturday. Even at that. the Tigers are strong
favorites.

Coach “Mac” McCarthy is to be congratulated on turning
out two winning teams one day. If the teams can keep up that
pace the McCarthy system must be good. The flying feet of
Henry Ross will greatly augment an already truly great backfield. When Dal and Acadia tangle on the 20th and 27th it will
be one glorious field day, as it is generally considered that one
of these two teams will cop the title.

After Dalhousie’s clean sweep of the Intercollegiate tennis
semi-final at Wolfville on Saturday it looks as if the Bengals
will cop their fifth consecutive title.

It looks as if our pal Ernie has come to life. The management committee of the D. A. A. C. have decided to start
Interfaculty football at the first of next week. Something
should be done to improve the brand of rugger doled out, as in
the past it has been nothing more than a first class solution of
how to keep from growing old.

The Dalhousie Swimming Club is trying to arrange a meet
with Acadia in the near future. That awful shellacking the
lads got last year has apparently left them undaunted. Well,
maybe the Freshman class can swim.

Mr. Stirling has announced his intentions of starting a
House Basketball League in the last part of October. This
gives every a chance to play organized ball as well as being a
good conditioner for the potential varsity candidates.

With three ping pong tables going full swing most of the
time, it looks as if some bright enthusiast will petition the
D. A. A. C. to make it a major sport.

It is rumored that the athletic club is endeavoring to have

the qualification for a gold “D” raised. The idea seems to be|

that one has to have three felt ““D’s” in order to be entitled to
a gold one on graduating.

Are our co-eds going effeminate on us? As yet we haven’t
seen any girls running around the campus brandishing those
murderous looking ground hockey sticks.

Dal Defeats St. Mary’s in American Rugby

Large Crowd Watch Dalhousie Get 13—0 Win Over Improved
St. Mary’s Outfit.

On Thanksgiving day, October 8th, witnessed by more
than 1,000 fans, the Dalhousie exponents of American football
ushered in the 1934 season by defeating St. Mary’s contenders
| by a tally of 13—0. The score, however, is not an indication
of the playing . St. Mary’ s showed remarkable improvement
and more familiarity with the game since last year, especially
on the defensive side. At one time, at the end of the first
quarter, they held Dal on their own yard line.

| Unfortunately, the excitement and glamor that’ goes with
American football was ‘sontewhat wanting. The game proceeded slowly and there were many fumbled passes and unsuccéssftil forward passes. Nevertheléss the Saints were winety
outplayed. The Dal team scored 8 first downs to the Saints’ 2

i ae eee through 220 ‘yards to the Saints’ 66 throughout the

eT Gladstone, left end, ‘scored the first touchdown in the
second quarter ‘by blocking St. Mary’s kick and running twenty
yards for the goal. ‘On‘a concealed triple reverse pass in the
fourth quarter, Phil Stein, left half back, dashed through a
perplexed and confused team for 35 yards for the second touch
down. The extra’point was ‘successfully scored by a short forward pass from quarter back Krantz to C. Miller.

Some. of the players, though not conspicuous in the highlights of the game, showed some real knowledge and finished
technique of football playing, Green and Brecker of Dal especially, and Finlay and MacDonald of the Saints.

Analysis of the game was as follows:

First downs: Dal 8; St. Mary’s 2.

Yards gained on penalties: Dal 15; St. Mary’s 30.

Completed forward passes: Dal 2; St. Mary’s 0.

Intercepted forward: passes: Dal 4: St. Mary’s 2.

Yards gained on running punts back: Dal 42; St. M. 38.

Yards gained on rushes: Dal 222; St. Mary’s 66.

The lineup:

Dalhousie: B, Gladstone, L.E.; DuBilier, L.T.; Becker,
'L.G.; Glorioso, C.; Allyn, R.T.,; Rosenburg, R.G.; Rowley, RB;
Krantz, Q:B.; Stein, LH.B.; - Miller, R.H.B.; - Krebs, F.B.

Substitutes: Young , ’ Fallender, Solomon, Liebowthy,
Green, Pearlman and Schwartz.

‘ = Rats ” . a “MONTH t sh went
PINE ’ HILL | Duck ie sik Yes
PECCADILLOE:

\their star forward, Tommy Aitkins,
The anntial game of “Pine Hill”

to score. The remainder of the
period was occupied by a series of
football between the Old Building | touchdowns for the ‘“Wind-Bags”,
‘“Wind-Bags” and the Annex “Alley-|enabling them to eke out a close
Rats” was played on Monday, Ceto- | 18-3 victory.
ber 8th, at 10 a. m. on the Studley | Latest reports show that both
grounds. |teams plan to take twelve months
Both teams startéd off in fine con- | rest in order to be in condition for
dition. The first period was so fast|next year’s game.
and furious that the referee, unable |
‘to count the off-sides and fouls on his | NOTICE
fingers, was forced to turn his back | The Semi-Annual “Meeting “of
peas pray for guidance. When it fin- | the D. A. A. °C. will be held on
ally occurred to him to blow his} Tyesday, October 16th, at 12.00
| whistle, the Rev. H. K. was seen! pogn, jin the Gyiitiasiun. ~All
emerging To a Hag nee of| members are urged to attend.
players, with his clothes soaked in ee ees ae
the blood of a team-mate who had Gah SOME DON:
gotten in his way. Sickened by the |
sight of blood, the referee ended the | ———
period with a score of 6-0 for the
“Wind-Bags”.
| The second period opened slowly,
“owing, to the confusion caused by |
the yelling of the crowd, but when
two of the onlookers fell asleep and
the third ‘went hom, ‘the “Alle;
 

:

 

President D.A.A.C.

 

phone B, 7138

 

 

 

 

tice

 

Halifax Transfer |

|
|

October 12, 1934

 

AM essage
To College Men

Whether ‘buying ‘a life insurance policy as a ‘provision for the future, or contemplating the selling ‘of
life insurance as a ’profession, you would ‘do well to
consider the outstanding sixty-four year record of The
Mutual Life of Canada. Commuhicate with our nearest Branch Manager or our Home Office.

 

Mutual Life Assurance Company

of Canada

HOME OFFICE — WATERLOO, ONTARIO
Established 1869

 

INTERFACULTY | Se
F OOTBALL | hie ark jel : eae. Miller

f | Wwiktowe dope appeared in the Halifax

| DOPSTERS

At a meeting of the managers o

 

the interfaculty Rugby teams, it| | Mail. )Charlie perdicted wins for the
was decided that this year the | Tigers and Cubs—last Saturday over
Rugby League rather than the| °@tvices—now he can say I told you

Rugby union game would be pl: ayed | 80. .What’s the dope on the league
in the Interfaculty League. Since | titles—or is it too soon?

the rules are slightly different ‘than |

the ordinary Rugby rules, it was!
agreed, on Mr. Richardson’s sugges- |
tion, that the managers of the vari- |
ous teams would endeavour to have |
their players out for general prac- |
on Thursday; October 11th,
when coach McCarthy will be present to teach the players the fundamental rules of the game. The
drawing of a league schedule was
deferred until Saturday, Oct. 13th,
with an understanding that the
league would in all probability ‘get
under way on Thursday, Oct. 18th.

 

Canterbury Room

While students were at
home during the summer
The Green Lantern made
a decided change in dec
orating The Canterbury

 

The following represented the
various faculties: Frank Wishart, | Room. Cosy and ‘very
Medicine; Neil Ferguson, Law; .
Harold Johnson, Commerce; John nice.

Fisher, Freshmen; Henry Ross and
Gord. Thomson, Arts; while Earnie
Richardson, Manager of Interfaculty
sports, was in ‘the chair.

TheGreen Lantern

 

IF YOU SHOW THIS ADVERTISEMENT

HAIR TRIM, SHAMPOO and FINGER
WAWTOCON SOP 658 cots. errs dats Ss 75¢
12 PERMANENT CURLS for
(Includes Shampoo)

15 years experience is your assurance of satisfaction

arrietie¢

24% SPRING GARDEN RD

24% Spring Garden Road

Ground Floor Mills Bldg.
B-7022.

 

 

    
     
   
   
    
 
    
   
 
   

| CASINO

NOW TILL FRIDAY
October 12th

CARAVAN

Direct from Music Hall, New
York. ‘Cast of 3,000.

Barretts 7

of Wimpole Street || Starting Saturday
0 | THE DRAGON
| MURDER CASE

with
WARREN WILLIAM
(as Philo Vance)
MARGARET LINDSAY

|
NORMA SHEARER
0
FREDRIC MARCH

0 j
CHARLES LAUGHTON |||

The

All We rea Saturday

RUGBY FOOTBALL

Dalhousie vs. Wanderers

STUDLEY CAMPUS — SATURDAY, OCT. 13th

Senior, 3.30 p.m. — Intermediate, 2

 

p. ™.

 

Admission 35c. Students Free with Council Ticket

   

 

 

 
