  
    
  
   
  

  

GHazette

BY THE SEA”

eh.

‘ i
if 4

“THE ene

TION

LORD TWEEDSMUIR ACCEPTS HONORARY PRESIDENCY:

* : Pee ee | D 5
BA nc ACADIA CO-EDS VISIT DAL pam | Twelfth Night
e ae Haz Man Influenced Civilization ? On Way

TWO STRONG TEAMS Excellent Cast |
first year that she has participated

No. 18

DATE IS SET

Vice-Presidency

‘Woman Nominee

BARTON AND MacKEEN
FOR PRESIDENT

The race is on! Fred Barton of
the Med School and Douglas MacKeen are in the running for the
Presidency of next year’s Students’
Council; they are both excellent
men. The Council also decided that
Class °41, should

 

  

 

 

 

 

The first of the girls’ Intercollegiate

Debates is to be held on Monday,
Feb. 27; at 8.00, in Room 3 of the
Arts Building. It is to be a spectacular affair, with the debaters

wearing their colorful gowns. The
question is, ‘Resolved that man has
had more influence on the progress
of civilization than women.” This
alone should interest the men in
supporting it. The Dalhousians
have taken the affirmative (per‘| haps if they had left their campus
ae would have dared to deny it).

 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
     
    
  

he estiatian Sipevsits stuIt is one of the greatest
paid to the N.F.C.U.S. since
rma jon ‘and one more evidence
linked na
ouncement followed upye President John H.

  
 
  
   
 
  
 
  
  
 

  

 

debater, is to be chairm

  

a junior
very well at college.

Frosh Cop Shield

are WIN BENNETT DEBATE
aS of delegates from the differ- |

it colleges and ntoarattion within| Freshmen copped the Bennett
aritimes. The students who Shield for interclass debates, and

se ‘the first annual conference the two books presented by Rt. Hon.
faritime university students|R. B. Bennett at the finals between
aticularly impressed with its|Juniors and Freshmen on Thursday.
ization. With time for prep- The winners. were Murray Davis
mn, they say, Dalhousie could|}@md Romena Benson; their opponan even more prominent part|¢nts, Doug MacKeen and Jean Macfuture conferences. The next will| Donald. The subject debated, “Reeld at Acadia University. solved that wives should receive
ss Carly Sullivan explained salaries.”
the students at St. F. X. “rep-| The freshmen believed that the
nted the most intelligent college | life of a housewife is an exacting
len nts—that is, those who have| job, demands a remuneration, and
nite opinions, which they con-| that such, in the form of a salary,
carefully before expressing.| was in line with progress in our
igi will in years to come} present civilization. This system,
hi they believed, would produce desirable psychological effects on a married couple. It would be concrete
evidence of a free and enlightened
partnership suitable to an enlightened age. :

MacKeen, for the negative and
the Juniors, thought that all the
qualities deserving of remuneration
in the Davis picture of an ideal life
could only be procured in one way
—by supporting a harem.

Jean MacDonald said that a salary would reduce a wife to the position of a hired servant.

Judges were Professors Bennet,
Martin and Willis. John Dickie was!

chairman.

——
IS BEL. WN epee
dents of ‘Dalhousie now |
_ the university students
ri times have many probh can be helped and to
lessened by confer
it

ee hy "cava all noticed and re_ marked the strong and sound opinif sen that were expressed in the ex
: 4 pene Everyone ev to

aha of the year. This sugmn came from Dalhousie,” ex
Continued on page 6) 
  

jae nereen Allen, a second year Law

an gupenienced
Romie ial Renee. held this

   
   

: ad- ‘Sophomore.

‘Boleman. Eeeline!
at Acadia and has done large attendance is looked for, men
‘This is the included.

   

a ee

LORD NELSON HOTEL

in interclass debating. However, in
1986 Rosaline won the Maritime
B. Y. P. U. oratorical contest. Dorothy Vye is a member of the senior
class from Middleton and has taken |
part in interclass debates for three
years. The third, Barbara Crosby,
is from Yarmouth and is a freshiesoph. This was her first year at|
interclass debating but a lucky one, |
for her class won. This will be the |
first Varsity debate for these girls,
but they certainly look competent.

Rowena Benson, leader of the
Dalhousie team, is a freshette from
Bridgetown. She took part in the

’ fe who
cade ee “Marion Gano. a

It should be a pe debate and a

  
  
  
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
  
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
   
 
  
  
 
 
  
   
   
  
  
  
   
   
 
  
 
 
  
   
 
   
  
    

 

PRESIDENTS FAVOR
EXCHANGE PLAN |

C.U.P.) |
Several Canadian university heads |
have expressed high approval of the |
Exchange Scholarship Plan sponsor- |
ed by the National Federation of |
Canadian University Students. )
Principal R. C. Wallace of Queen’s
University thinks the plan has work- |
ed well. “The important thing seems |
to me to be,” Dr. Wallace has said, |
“that students of ability be sent out
as ambassadors, who will not be so
bound down to their studies, because
they find their studies difficult to)
keep up with, as to be unable to!
mingle in the student life. They
ought to be able to bring back to
their university both sides of the
university they have visited ... I
think we all agree that the scheme
is a statesmanlike one and we ought
to remember the credit of our canadian undergraduates that they initiated it by themselves.”
President Emeritus Murray of the

 

University of Saskatchewan, in
(Continued on Page 6)
STOP PRESS
Professor C. D. Ellis, F.R.S., of

King’s College, University of London, will be the guest of Dalhousie
University next week. _ Professor
Ellis is famous for his work in
modern physics. While at Dalhousie
he will give several lectures. De‘tails will be posted on the notice
boards.

ATTEND

NIOR PROM | ..

FRIDAY, MARCH 3

DANCING 9-2

0 os ; J
i) im ae ei
va vier

f Se ie ipa! i

 

 

PHILLIP R. BEATTIE
(See page 5)

 

Pharos Out Munro Day

New Features

 

by JOAN BLACKWOOD
Pharos ’39 will make history in

more ways than one. First, it really
; fax! Will n make ‘its appearance on Munro}
‘Day.

establish a precedent on the Dalhousie campus. The staff have
worked hard to make this possible.

This year’s Pharos will have all
the features of other years plus
several entirely new ones. The Feature Section is in charge of George
Murphy, who in collaboration with
Jim Rankin,
promises many surprises. Cartoon
by Chambers will precede the various sections, Those who are familiar
with his work (and who isn’t)! will
be impatiently waiting for these. |
There will also be a page or two
pages devoted to our benefactor, the
Rt. Hon. R. B. Bennett, and his very
interesting farewell to our shores.

Not only will the contents of the
Year Book be super-colossal, but the
book itself will be something to
show to the grandchildren. The
cover, so Editor-in-Chief Gosse tells
us, will be midnight blue and gold.
The pages have a different set-up
this time, and not only that, but
there will be a very attractive border
too.

The book is to be dadicated to
late President Emeritus, A. Stanley
MacKenzie. A limited number of
copies will be printed, so be sure to
order your copy early.

NOTICES

Glee Club:

Connolly Shield Wednesday,
March 2nd, Pi Beta Phi one-acter
“If the Shoe Pinches” and the other
(?)

Dalhousie Film Society:

“Ein Walzer Von Strauss”, the
story of the life of Johann Strauss,
the great Waltz king, will
presented in the gymnasium, March

3, 8.15. (Continued on Page 6)

i ‘ : - 7
tm Gene, ated its YT AYA ot alte
Helios BAF) pth een pele hi i
4 Pi eee

 

As far as we know, this will’!

 

be |

Rumour has finally erystallized| George Hagen,
into fact and the rehearsals for the

Dal Glee Club’s super production of

 

pilot the freshman of next year
through the first difficult months.

the year, Twelfth Night, are wel] | Hence he is assured a seat as a

under way, enthusiastically support- | Freshman

representative in next

ed by a cast that is ready, willing | year’s Council.

and, we hope, able.

With the data)

A four-cornered contest promises

of the show set for the second week| to be keen when Shirley Kirkpatin March, members of the cast may| rick, Henry Reardon, Dick Murphy
be found in secluded corners of the|and John Dickie try for the vicecampus frantically mumbling lines | presidential office.

to themselves and gesticulating in|}

the true Shakespearian tradition.

Interest in the elections, sched| uled for March 4th, is increasing as

Having sneaked up on the last re- | various organizations meet to ap
hearsal, your reporter is convinced |
and
Harvey, are really going to excell
themselves as a couple of riotous
old soaks, Sir Toby Belch and Sir
Andrew Aguecheek. Gordon Kinley
as Malvolio, the thwarted hero of the
piece, is being quite himself, how
that the two Bills, Stevens

ever, in refusing to become involved
on this score. Mary Hayman, the
active little exchange student from
Western, was running around the
stage, vainly trying to subdue the
noise always raised by good fellows
getting together. Yes, on the whole,

Photographic Editor,/ t,t drunken scene looked not half
bad.

Those who remember last year’s
Munro Day Show will be glad to
learn that Lloyd Dalton is returning
in the same type of part. Casting
no reflection on Lloyd, the fools he
plays are good and Feste, the clown
of Twelfth Night promises to be his
prize part to date. George Little, as
the Duke, proves himself to be a
typical Dal. man, fickle as they come,
swerving from an unrequited love for
Olivia, played by the red-headed “hotstuff” Ruth MacQuarrie, to Viola,
Joan Blackwood, with nary the flicker of an eyelash. Joan as Viola
supplies the love-interest of the plot,
even though she does run around in
boy’s clothes for the major part of
the play (Hey, fellas, didn’t they
wear tights in Shakespeare’s time ?)
Irene Pentz is making her debut as
Sebastian, Joan’s twin, and Walter

Murphy is handing in his usual
polished performance as Fabien.
Charlie Roberts, Ken Archibald,

Carleton Stanley, Alfred Poirier,
Marjorie Wood and Edna Menger
make up the rest of the cast. The
costumes are being especially ordered from Toronto by the Glee Club
who are also looking after the musical end of the show. On the whole
Twelfth Night is an ambitious, color
 

lof Class of

| point candidates.

Women on the Warpath.
Rumor has it that the women are
on the warpath. Just discovering
that they are eligible. for nomina
tions as President of the Council,

Member at large, Vice-President,
Law Society candidates, Med School,
Commerce Society and Engineering,
they are out to get more representation on the Council than the usual
two. Having started their campaign
a little late, they will concentrate
on electing their vice-presidential
candidate.

Barton and MacKeen are both experienced Council members—Barton
with three years, MacKeen with
two. The Medical representative
has the advantage of eXperience on
both campuses: Studley, as President of Class of ’88, and three years
at Forrest. MacKeen President
’40 and this year’s
Freshman representative.

Candidates Elected.

Candidates were appointed at this
week’s meeting of the various campus organizations. Lawrence Hanway, solidly backed by his first
year classmates, was nominated as
Law Society’s candidate to run
against Bud MacDougall, second
year Law student, at a meeting on
Tuesday. At the same hour Commerce Society decided upon Jack
Reynolds and Frank Johnson; while
at the same time appointing Doug
Cameron as the Society’s President,
Helen Rodgers as Vice-President,
and Harry Smith, Secty.-Treasurer.

The Engineers have nominated
James Roy, first year student, and
Bob Walters, present member. D.
A.A.C. representative will be Chris
MacAlden: In the Arts and Science
Society nominations from Executive

is

for Council representatives: Freshmen: Ken Archibald and Edmund
Morris; Inez Smith, -Joan Black
ful and entirely different type of| wood, Marjorie MacIntosh, Peggy
show for the Glee Club and here’s| Merkel and Carly Sullivan, to rep
luck to it!

CAMPUS QUEEN BALLOTT

1

DALHOUSIE QUEEN

CRE ea) ee, See Oe ee) ee. ee ow ete BC Ae & eee

(Continued on page 6)

Class 739

71/0. ROL tO. 8 61S we Ca oy eS Oe ee

 

w, &. 6 (&- 6) (oie 6 ee Pe SP. Usa (DOO ete; a

 
 

 

        
 

7 ib he a : . ;
ee The views expressed in any column, of The Gazette are those
assumed that they represent the opinion of the student body.

ede fics GAZETTE STAFF

of the author; it cannot be

ae

ee SH aire EDITORS |

ss MARY HAYMAN’ - B-9746 BARBARA MURRAY - H-6152
ace EDITORIAL STAFF a teal

oe Sa " : De ata kilste eat oie on arjorie MacLean
eer NeW eTs EDITOR SS Se TERY ae ae ep

Oe ab FEATURE EDITOR - - - - - Joan Blackwood

BUSINESS MANAGER - - - Syd oe 2 es
_ASS PES: Park, Margaret Drummie, Joan ong, se
ae eae Me t ie, PM atvaret Harvey, Joan Anderson,
- Plorence Armstrong, Marjorie MacIntosh, Maureen Allen, Zilpha

Linkletter, Peggy Merkel, Shirley Kirkpatrick, Doreen Dennis, Fre

Cahan, Jacki an, Reta Harrison, Adine Oland, Isobel Morrel,
eee Goenan, Marion Little, Inez Smith.

The six page issue was made possible by the extra ads which were
obtained by Kae Robinson, Penny Patchell and Helen Sayer.

WE HAVE EQUALITY
The annual Co-ed edition of

| ermitted to edit this ancient and honourable college paper,
ce fo been given a great measure of equality in all mix
student organizations. But to what extent have we exercised
are ours? In another en Fare es a

i e campus offices, always.held by men,
oe shasta are eligible. That these
challenged is a sad reflection on
towards the equality that so

the rights that
reporter
to which theoretically men and
assumed rights have not been
the attitude of Dalhousie women
many desire to have recognized.

This apathetic outlook is not confined to the women of the
Dalhousie campus. Last week there was a student conference
and among the committees appointed was one to investigate
the ballot counting system at Federal and Provincial elections.

 

pe “s d be more profitable to investigate why and how the
eae a ionoged a Pacadion Mrs. Pankhurst have evolved into a post
- Blection silk stocking parade, to put it mildly.
Not that the majority of women stoop to political corruptions. They prefer to look upon politics as an uncouth business
and leave the fine but few women workers without support.
And, in this lack of support, it is university women who have
been the greatest offenders. Having taken a superior attitude
to politics, they put their energies into organizations which they

 
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
   

_—s think give a measure of intellectual and social prestige. Too
great : number consider themselves so tolerant that to join a
-__ political party, the basis of the democratic system, would be a
trayal of their purported wisdom.
| rance is admirable but that

Fy A

  

which takes existing condi~ So let us claim the rights
i. Then there will be no need for

78 >) a fae 5
a = Pk sina te
o

ok

5 a fas.

Po +e

 
   
 
 
  
 
  
  
  

si 7
~

0

8

pre he 3: aS “
only indifference.
- 5 n denie
ae Oe . peo: % ey n
an editor’s official tl
‘s 2 r ibe E ang ies {sce ~
in ¥ anizat "

wy heh . °
eae aa ee io =

       
 

  

eae 1S

> See OF THE COLLEGE PAPER ©
ss "The Student Council publish every Friday the Dalhousie
Gazette. We all know that but few know why it is printed.
When the Gazettes are brought up to the college there is no
wild dash to secure acopy. Thick untouched piles remain over
the week-end in Roy’s store, the library and Shirreff Hall. We
are told that these conditions are not new. Yet, if the Students’ Council were to cancel the editing of the Gazette due to
lack of student support and interest fiery criticism would be
directed at them from students on both campuses and from
some faculty members. Would their only obj ection be the cessation of the oldest college newspaper in Canada? Or have we
merely acquired a cronic habit? Perhaps we hate to differ
from Acadia and Mt. A.? Unfortunately few would even
analyse why they objected.
an A college paper plays an even more important part in a
Canadian university than it does in an American. Since we
have no college which offers a course in journalism, Canada
needs trained writers every bit as badly as the Americans do.
The training of students who intend to work at writing or
advertising after graduation can only be given through the
support and encouragement of a campus newspaper. It is natural for the best training that the paper be organized and run
along the same lines as the better newspapers. Unfortunately
fod the present system of awarding Gazette D’s hinders a closer
bt organization of the staff. Points are given for amount of
ae, material printed. Those who spend a lot of time on the Gazette
i and are anxious to earn their D through this work tend to
cee. turn out almost the entire paper by themselves so that the
ae required number of points will be reached.
i In their latter‘ years interested students should be using
reas their time and energy for receiving training in organization,
Ps choosing of material, and planning of the respective pages which
tee. fall under their control. The editor has the last word in all
ita policy but his job should consist of final okaying of the set-ups
Bee for which the respective editors have collected material and
_ ~~ have planned out. Some arrangement should be made for the
eae next year’s editor-in-chief to learn the requirements of his
position and the routine of his work so that the Gazette could
ey. swing into action at the beginning of the year. |
ae The Gazette is unable to adequately carry out this vital
--_ function which necessity has forced upon it. It is not the fault
_  . of the present staff-or the present editor, but is a result of the
existing organization, the present method of awarding Gazette
D’s and the system under which the editor is chosen. We
pues strongly advise a radical and much needed change in these
i. drawbacks to the editing of a closely coordinated paper, which
ee could act as a practical course in journalism.

  

POSE OF

;
, ten ve ‘ fo
i dart 4 Th) a
f ; hex | .
yee : mE FU.
ae ” > 1. » a
at po. fa _
Ale eae Tt;
.* % :
“ee

‘
Lf

 

: Once more a Dalhousie student has been granted a responsible position. We offer sincer€ congratulations to Ed.
_ Morris, Dalhousie Bulletin Editor, who, at the Maritime Uni
eS: \ Raer ema

ger Pati! versity Conference was chosen to be president of the recently
Dt formed Maritime University Press Association.

rata), ' : ; * B

es
ms te”

tion or, in later life, to

Breer the Gazette symbolizes + aie
PE Ss ote 1c | ae women | help it. :
ine. equality of sexes on the Dalhousie campus, ne ea ae are a born writer you won’t be able to help it and advice will
\ we paint our characters .

|
:

 

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

AN AUTHOR SPEAKS ;

Editor’s Note: .

We are pleased to present im this issue an editorial
which discusses the problems of writing by a pérson who ts
excellently qualified to do so—Miss L. M. Montgomery (Mrs.
Macdonald). She is one of Dalhousie’s best known women
alumnae. Every Canadian girl has read and enjoyed Anne
of Green Gables. It is a delightful habit that will continue,
a childhood classic that we thank Miss Montgomery for as
sincerely as we thank her for sending to us this delightful
editorial,

 

Probably the two questions oftenest asked a writer who has
won some measure of success are: ‘Would you advise me to
take up writing as a career?” and “How do you go about writing
a book?” The first question is reasonable and sensible. The
second is utterly unreasonable and nonsensical. Yet it is the
more frequent of the two.

I always answer the first by telling of an old lady I once
knew who used to say to girls, “Don’t marry as long as you can
help it because when the right man comes along you can’t help
it.’ So to aspiring young people, “Don’t write if you can

Authorship is a hard, exacting profession. But if you

ed| have not the least effect on you.”

Before attempting to write a book be sure you have something to say. It need not be a very great or lofty or profound
something. It is not given to many of us to utter

“Jewels five words long
That on the stretched forefinger of all time
Sparkle forever.”
But if we have something to say that will bring a whiff of
fragrance to a tired soul or a weary heart, or a glint of sunshine
to a clouded life, then that something is worth saying and it
is our duty to try to say it as well as in us lies. F

One should not try to write a book impulsively or accidentally as it were. The idea may come by impulse or accident
but it must be worked out with care and skill, or its embodiment
will never partake of the essence of true art. Write . . . and
put what you have written away: read it over weeks later: cut,
Repeat this process until your work seems
to you as good as you can make it. Never mind what outside
critics say. They will all differ from each other in their
opinions so there is really not a great deal to be learned from
them. Be your own severest critic. Never let a paragraph in
your work get by you until you are convinced that it is as good
as you can make it. Somebody else may be able to improve it
vastly. Somebody will be sure to think he can. Never mind.
Do your best ... and do it sincerely. Don’t try to write like
some other author. Don’t try to “hit the public taste.” The
public taste doesn’t really like being hit. It prefers to be
surprised with some unexpected

prune and re-write.

allured into some fresh pasture,
tid-bit. —
An accusation is commonly made against us novelists that
pain aract . . especially our ridiculous or unpleasant characters “from life.” The public seems determined

jnot to allow the smallest particle of creative talent to an author.

If you write a book you must have drawn your characters
“from life.” You, yourself, are of course the hero or heroine:
your unfortunate neighbors supply the other portraits. People
will cheerfully tell you that they know this or that character
of your books intimately. This will infuriate you at first but
It is in reality. a subtle compli
you willtearn to laugh at it.
It is a tribute to the

ment ... though it is not meant to be.
“like-likeness” of your book people. :

Write only of the life you know. This is the only safe rule
for most of us. A great genius may, by dint of adding study
and research to his genius, be able to write of. other ages and
other environments than his own. But the chances are that
you are not a Scott or a Kipling. So stick to what you know.
It is not a narrow field. Human life is thick around us everywhere. Tragedy is being enacted in the next yard; comedy is
playing across the street. Plot and incident and colouring are
ready to our hands. The country lad at his plough can be made
just as interesting as a knight in shining armour: the bent old
woman we pass on the road may have been as beautiful in her
youth as the daughters of Vere de Vere and the cause of as
many heart-aches. The darkest tragedy I ever heard of was
enacted by people who lived on a backwoods farm: and funnier
than anything I ever read was a dialogue between two old
fishermen who were gravely discussing a subject of which they
knew absolutely nothing. Unless you are living alone on a dessert island you can find plenty of material all around you: and
even there you could find it in your own heart and soul. For
it is surprising how much we all are like other people. Jerome
K, Jerome says, “Life tastes just the same whether you drink it
out of a stone mug or a golden goblet.’’ There you are! So
don’t make the mistake of trying to furnish your stories with
golden goblets when stone mugs are what your characters are
accustomed to use. The public isn’t much concerned with your
external nothings ... your mugs or your goblets. What they
want is the fresh, spicy brew that Nature pours for us
everywhere.

Write, I beseech you, of things cheerful, of things lovely,
of things of good report. Don’t write about pig-styes because
they are “real.” Rose gardens and pine woods and mountain
peaks towering to the stars are just as real and just as plentiful. Write tragedy if you will, for there must be shadow as
well as sunlight in any broad presentment of human life: but
don’t write of vileness, of filth, of unsavory deeds and thoughts.
There is no justification for such writing. The big majority
of the reading public doesn’t want it: it serves not one good end.

Don’t spin your book out too long... Gone With The Wind
to the contrary notwithstanding. Don’t make anybody too
bad or too good. ~Most people are mixed. Don’t make vice
attractive and goodness stupid. It’s nearly always the other
way in real life. Cultivate a sense of dramatic and humourous
values: feel what you write: love your characters and live with
them: and KEEP ON TRYING.

; Vote for ¢andidates who will be interested in the welfare ||
of Dalhousie!

 

February 24, 1939

 

“The purest a

in which tobacto

be smoked.”

7 CAPORAL

i |
} CIGARETTES

can

 

PHYSICAL EDUCATION
By PHYLLIS WRAY
Instructor in Physical Education at Dalhousie University

The significance of Education as an important necessity to
human progress is a truism. It is a narrow conception of
education that provokes polemical discussion. Education,
through all its phases, seeks to result in a balanced personality
for the individual. The connotations in that term are wide.
It implicates the development of the capacities of mind and
body, good character, the learning of skills and the acquisition
of knowledge. The means to this result are as extensive as
experience itself. One grouping of the means, brings together
varied experiences under the heading, physical education.

It is within our own time that this type of education has
had its potentialities universally realized, and its importance
found and stressed. It is being increasingly ascribed a valuable
place in life. University men and women, who have a broader
concept of education than acquisition of knowledge alone, are
conceiving the great consequence of this phase of education.

Physical education is a method of education for the whole —

personality through activity of muscle groups, and is a powerful influence in developing and conserving health and physical
fitness, determining social behaviour and increasing culture. ° It
is primarily concerned with two things. The first is the building of organic power and vigor; which means the development
and maintenance of health. A back ground of physiology and
psychology points out the fact that this is essential to the

happiness of the individual and to the vitality of the race...It Ae
is true that the greater the health, the more the learning and ~

the more effective and lasting the learning. The second consideration is the mastery of neuro-muscular skills. In short,
the building of physical ability, the learning of skills in sports,
contributes great satisfaction and enjoyment to living.

Mental health also, is influenced by physical activity. It is
common to hear talk of the increased nervous tension and strain
of this age. Over fifty percent of American hospital beds are
occupied by people with nervous and mental disorders. The
physiological fact of exercise influencing the efficiency of the
nervous system and mental power; and the recreation and relaxation afforded by physical activities are potent factors in
mental health. Right attitudes towards life’s situations and
good habits in thought and action mean happiness, and in
physical activities, should be stressed rather than gym and
athletic dexterity. Good attitudes simply means the possession
of character traits that are most desirable. Among these
traits, admirably adapted for development through various
sports, are: perseverance, initiative, self-control, courage
honesty, justice, co-operation, sympathy and loyalty. Think for
a moment of how a game can bring out these traits in a good
or bad way, and then you can realize the claim physical education can make to building good character and social adjustment
in ne rata ie under good leadership.

igain, leisure time used to gain skill in some G4,

oadminton is of definite value. It leads to a feeling De eect
efficiency ; makes the individual more acceptable to others and
it means enjoyable and profitable leisure time.
an Now come ae claims
influence on culture. Dancing with its medium
generally accepted as one of the great arts. ee als
rl broadly.as the sum of appreciations through contact with
ife outside oneself, Who can deny that there is beauty and
vital pleasure in watching fancy skating, diving or high skill in
‘aie sport? There is aesthetic pleasure also in grace, poise and
Pasi oe puree a Mowener there is still greater
sessing oe ae and creating movement, and in pos
€ concomitant values of physica
further yet. The preventive and aa
education present obvious good results
enough to draw out the dynamic realizatio
great part physical education can play in ah
and “ forming : good philosophy.

1€ present students in universities have the opportunity
» es ony ee an in their own lives, but to atenhebs
decent enefits to school children and the coming

__ If conditions are favorable t i

will be towards personality white, nati ae
—culture—and emotional stability.

A PRIVATE TUTOR |

costs a fortune—yet for a few cents

: , you can have one f pte Bind out how, by securing a free copy of “College ue.

gue listing hundreds of aids, outlines, and translations.

Write now to

ee riers EXCHANGE

anada’s Book-Clearing House”
| 370 Bloer St. W., Toronto, Ontario

activity stretch
aspects of physical
However, this is
n of what a very
appy way of living

ation the trend
ys intelligence—health

 
     
 
  
       

 

 
 
 

+

 

|
|

that physical education makes, of its

 
     
  
    

:

re =

*
<

or a Pe +

A
vey
ee

ws

   
  

 

4

ee

~

LS

ae

g for what they considerrest “sport event of op

a Bestike Party’ at the Arena

hig cpa: eee ont

phe “Naturally a few ‘gots occur
  

a
er
i

a

baie

 

eal

s rie

: ‘ted, but they ‘were all taken in good

Due to the flu epidemic, the band
was unable to provide the necessary
music, but the skaters didn’t seem
to notice it.

At 10 o’clock the students wended
their way towards the good old gym,
where they were met by the strains
_ of the Wurtilzer. Every one thought
it the hit.of the season. Why not
have them fortnightly, rather than
"annually

 

_ BOOK OF BUNK

And it came to pass that the time

 

was drawing nighe for the choos-ing

mn ae. Council of the Studes, that

y in Store for those wie are

 

 
 
 
 
 

 
 

 
  
 
  
 
  
 

Ba
io and bit-er vo-cab-u-lar-ee. And he
ty _ smote the Glee-Kloob heavyle and

srned by a stude of the Lande of
. and he begins to begyne
that the studes of the
as now ) Rnowe that

Bae s dy ty

from cover to cover.
the life of Mme. Curie is tremendous
and inspiring. Some of her accomplishments are known to all of us:
but the picture of her is not complete
without an understanding of the
hardships she endured, and the tremendous tasks which she set herself.

day night. There was a good

story of
There
everyone.
sionately hoped one day for the
freedom she saw as tbe country’s
right.
of her life Russia dominated Poland,
and forcefully taught the
Polish children whom to acknowledge
as their master.

  
 
   
  

 

 
    
  
 

 

WHAT TO READ
MADAME CURIE _
A Biography by Eve Curie
For eight hours, with time out
only for meals, I read this book
~The story of

Genius, as we all know and say, is

born not made; but this woman of
genius worked far harder every year
of her life, than most of us with our

mediocre brains would dream of

doing even when we are plugging
for our exams.

In the light of her
biography, the pleasant, rather un
ambitious life of most. of WS here at
Dalhousie
wasteful.

seems stupid, tawdry,
I shall not attempt to tell the
this wonderful woman.
deep interest here for

Born in Poland, she pas
is

But during the greater part

little

The love which Mme. Curie—nee
Manya Sklodovski—had for all her

family, and the sacrifices that she
made to help send her older sister
to Paris, in order that she might
study to be a doctor, are very moving. All the time she herself was
longing to start her own studies, but
~|she knew that her sister must have

at '|her turn first. Women in those days
__ | were not admitted to study in Polish

ee eae man, a man of greet

_ Many were the tears of the Shees
of the Lande who had striven so
myght-lee when they herde that
nevere will the Shees of the Delt
Gam fynde a vee-hic-le worthie of

_thees talents. And the wrytings of

the eritic of the Glee Kloob remynde

 

OE co

aes

ase

‘the Kronicler of a man _ before

_whome many stage doores have been

And the Kronicler noteth welle a
letter in the Gaz from a man who
sygnes hymselfe “Just Me”, and he
_ pyties him exceedingly for his sadde
-con-fess-yon that he can notie lyfte
his hatte to a lyd-ee for feare that
’ his eye-Brows will comme off. "Tis

_ in-deed a sadde af-fliction for one
| who would be a gentle-man.

_ And the worke of the Kronicler
‘was taken over by a Shee of the
Lande for the Gaz was in the handes
of the Shees and the Kronicler
-mourneth longe and muttereth “Yes
neatly it will be a book of bunk..’

And here endeth the sixth chapter
Faas the Sixth Book.

  

. ‘Universities. — But the five years
**| which she spent as a governess in
~| various homes, where often she was
“| badly treated; her absolute poverty;
the loneliness of her father; all made

her feel that she would never get

to Paris.

That she did finally accomplish it,
travelling fourth class in a carriage
like a freight car, sitting on a little
stool she brought with her, gives
some faint hint of the courage of
that young girl. But she must not
be pitied.

Her inner spirit burned so fiercely
that she hardly thought about her
physical discomforts, or cared. She
had already wasted so many years,
that work at her physics and mathematics was all she wanted. In the
little tiny nook she lived in, in Paris,
there was neither “heating, light or
water”. For the next three years
any cooking she did was on “an
alcohol heater about as big as a
Saucer”.

“Marie (she called herself Marie
when she came to Paris) went to the
Sorbonne on foot in all weathers.
Coal was kept down to a minimum:
one or two sacks of “lumps” for the
winter, which the girl bought from
the merchant on the corner and
hoisted up the steep stairs hersel:
to the sixth floor, bucketful by
bucketful, stopping at each floor to

(Continued on page 6)

 

 
 

|| THE HALIFAX DAILY STAR

‘News of The. Home

fs - News of The World
NEWS WHEN IT IS
| FOR EVERY MEMBER OF THE FAMILY

read

  
       
         
   

  

  
  

NEWS

 
    
        
     

      
   
 
 
 
  

- DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

SHERRIFF HALL STEPS OUT

Archives Hold

ltems of Interest

Rare manuscripts, exhibits and
pictures may be found in one of the
buildings on Studley Campus that
is least known to students: the Public Archives of Nova Scotia, which
was officially opened in January,
1931. Since that date the building
has been accessible to students as
well as the general public, but all
too few avail themselves of its facilities.

Besides the manuscripts, the raw
material for the historian, which
are the Archives proper and comprise all the official records of the
Province of Nova Scotia, the building contains an excellent library relating to Nova Scotian, Canadian
and old Colonial history, a good
collection of Nova Scotian newspapers, and a large show-room filled
with cases of exhibits and pictures
of all sizes and descriptions.

The oldest book in the library is
the first edition of Hakluyt’s “Voyages” (1589); the oldest original
document isa grant of a barony in
Nova Scotia in 1631. The Halifax
Gazette, of March 23, 1752, is the
oldest newspaper in the building,
but its files are incomplete. There
is, however,, a complete file of the
Acadian Recorder from 1813-1920;
and there are broken files of many
other newspapers.

During the preparations for the
Dalhousie Reunion of 1938, the Archives obtained the complete collection of manuscripts of Dr.
Thomas McCulloch, the first President of Dalhousie. One showcase is
filled with selections from these
manuscripts illustrating his wide
knowledge and interests. Last autumn one of the most valuable col- ;
lections of private papers was given
to the Archives by T. Howland
White of Shelburne, a descendant of
Gidion White, one of the most prominent founders of that Loyalist town.

The Archives is constantly adding to the collections and within the
last two months has obtained the
old printing press on which Joseph
Howe printed the “Novascotian”,
and also the magnificent candelabra
which was presented to the town of
Halifax to Sir James Kempt in
1823. -The former may be seen in
the newspaper room on the ground
and the latter in the main showroom on the second floor.

These are only a few of the many
interesting documents and exhibits
that may be seen by anyone who
visits the Archives. It is hoped that
many students will do so, for it is
an excellent opportunity for them to
become acquainted with the history

/

 

? Stieber:

( With at ee to J.B.M.)

Why did the delegates of the
Maritime University Conference pass
“Resolved that in all major issues
Canada’s Foreign Policy should
in accordance with that of Great
Britain”? The only explanation I
can give is that either Mr. McCullagh’s propaganda over the radio
must be spreading very rapidly and
that more people are reading the
Globe and Mail or that the delegates
were very tired and bored when that
resolution was adopted. But let us
go deeper into the question. If you
wish to know the arguments against
such a policy you have only to read
John Grant’s article published a few
issues back. (Of course I know you
have. This is just a reminder). On
the other hand one of the reasons
for the Conference passing such a
proposal was that it was felt that
any other policy would place Canada
even more under the economic domination of the United States than it
is at present. (Nobody said why

be

they disliked the U. S. money. It
must be the color.)

The conference also discussed
education. Now that the Mock

Parliament has been held we are
able to see even more clearly how
necessary education is. That our
future statesmen, that our hopeful
Horatio Algers (rather hard to
recognize in embryo, aren’t they?)
are not able to appreciate the noble
French language as spoken by its
sons is an insult to our teachers
and a set-back to the future of the
Canadian people. I shall say no

more on this subject for, as it has
LOLOL LC LC ei

of Nova Scotia and much can be
learned in even a brief visit. The
staff is always eager to welcome stu| dents and to assist them in any
studies or researches that thay may
wish to make.

|

)

CRESTED GIFTS

To make a gift distinctive—choose it at
Birks, and have it
mounted with the

College or Fraternity
Crest.

HENRY BIRKS AND
SONS LIMITED

Diamond Merchants
Halifax, N. S.

 

 

 

As copied from the diary of a

famous editor: March 18, 1938.

A certain Maitlander who was
wandering around in the dreary and
dark corridor of the Annex Lower
floor fell among a group who manhandled him and finally carried him
up to the bathtub and submerged
him in the ice water and left him
sitting on the edge of the tub consoling his pains and backaches and
especially his wounded pride. And
soon a pre-m Wright by name,
having no prophetic insight towards
his calling threw a bucket of water
at him in which he could drown his
sorrows and then passed by unconcerned. And there came by that
Way a certain freshman, Fraser by
name, peering round the corner of
the sorrowful room and he, sympathetic fellow that he is, threw at
the drenched one a wet towel and he
too passed by, happy at all that had
taken place.

But along came a Campbelltonian
youth who took pity on him, wringing water from his wet clothes, and,
pouring liniment upon his strained
back and administering Carter’s
Little Liver pills to his wounded and
(Continued on page 6)

Neapbestilapeiadig\capnhihanptisiaebistlenaschoni
ably said, tempus fugit.
(This phrase has been explained to
you before.)

Sa ea aa a Ree ar an Oe ee ee ne eo ee ee

 

sO

Again there is war on the campus
and again the old cry of equality
has been raised. But. this time those
seekers after equality are not carrying red flags. (We wouldn’t mention
it if they wanted communistic
equality, for this column shall never
be accused of being Leftist. It is
strictly conservative and hence unbiased.) Well, as I have said, people
are again seeking for equality and
this time they wish it between men
and women, not between man and
man. Our editor has capably suggested that there are no better reasons for turning the Gazette over
to the women than there are for
turning it over to the D/A.A.C
There is, however, I think one good
reason for so doing. It is this. That
the women, though a minority on
the campus, will be part
majority in the outside world.
is no other minority of which this
(Continued on page 4)

4
been

J. H. CONN

|
of al
mr !
There

UNT FOR CAMPUS QUE

FEN

 

DATE SET FOR PROM

PINE HILL SPILLITS |

SUCCESS PROMISED

Here it is, the something different
Dalhousians have been begging for!
This university is about to have a
queen. Chosen from the senior class,
she is to reign over the JuniorSenior Prom to be held Friday,
March 3, at the Lord Nelson Hotel.

There will be dancing to the
strains of Jerry Naugler’s Orchestra
in a ballroom fittingly decorated for
such an occasion. The coronation is
to take place during the evening.

All that you Gazette readers have
to do is choose a queen and two attendants from the following list.
Then write on your ballot and place
it in one of the boxes stationed
for the purpose in the Macdonald
Library, Shirreff Hall library, the
gym store, and the Forrest Building.
And then come to the party!

With your co-operation the Juniors
hope to make this a final honor for
the graduating class.

The girls eligible for queen and
her two attendants are:

Joan Anderson, Betty Bannon,
Connie Burgoyne, Freda Cahan,
June Duchemin, Lillian Ferguson,
Margaret Gavell, Lily Hirsch, Agnes
Lindsay, Florence Armstrong, Mary

Holmes, Zilpha Linkletter, Margie
McAskill, Marg MacDonald, Marjorie Maclean, Barbara Murray,

Betty Pearson, Fran Robinson, Jessie
Stewart, Marion Westhaver, Irene
Pentz, Marjorie Wood, Marg MacMillan.

The ballot form
on the front page.

will be found

 

 

 

Visit Our Oyster Bar

Fresh Oysters, served just like
you want them at Boutilier’s
Oyster Bar. Open until 6 p.m.

BOUTILIER’S
BEDFORD ROW

 

Insist on Getting

Donovan’s Beverages
15 - Different Flavors - 15

W. H. DONOVAN
B-6821

45 GRANVILLE ST.

 

W. T. MARTEL

CONN & MARTEL

BOWLING & BILLIARD ACADEMY

Cor. Argyle and Buckingham Streets

   
 

 

 

Halifax, N. S.

 

DOUBLE
DELIGHT

finest roasted filberts
Jersey Milk Chocolate

A TREAT — ANYTIME

 

C.3713R8

 
    
  
 

 
 

Again last week Dal played bas- ‘ketball against Acadia, and again
; _ Aeadia won. The game was played
at, Wolfville and the final score was
32—28, giving Acadia a 13 point
ead over Dal, Acadia winning the
first game (20—16).
The game last week was fast and
interesting to watch, but Dal did
» not play as well as they had the
previous time. At the end of the

  
  
  
  
   
 
   
 

ws first quarter Dal had a slight lead
are over Acadia, but from then on the
| -—s-:Dal team, especially the forwards,
a slipped up on their passing and also
RS, on co-operation. The guards played
heels a good, strong defence game, but
i, te K were not able to keep the Acadia
pak

ss forwards from scoring.
Rsk Acadia played better on their own
‘floor and their shooting was good.
Dot Ilsley, Acadia captain, was the
outstanding player of the day. She
proved too fast for her guard and
her shooting was accurate. She
made many beautiful long shots
from the side, scoring 21 of Acadia’s
32 points.

The next highest scorer was Joan
Anderson, captain of the Dal team,
who. gained 11 points.

Line-up:

Dalhousie — Forwards: Joan Anderson 11, Joan Blackwood 6, Car-|
ley Sullivan 4, Irene Pentz 2;

guards: Marjorie Wood, Florence
Armstrong, Reta Harrison.
_ Acadia—Forwards: Dot Isley 21,

  
   
   
   
  
  
  
  
   
  
   
   
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
 

_ Betty Ferguson 8, Marj. Edwards 3;
a guards: Babs Harris, Fran Anderao ie lisley, Betty MacAskill.

ng Hy

 eouragin, no agg Tt would i unne - just to argue from this that the

-_ hoekey set-up at Dal is wrong, but

_ this and general lack of interest or

knowledge indicate that something

is amiss.

The senior team can draw from
those eligible for intercollegiate
hockey and those who are not. Even
then it is not strong enough to participate in the City League without
the addition of the alumni. It is
therefore necessary to play with
such teams as the Wolves, who are
out of our class.

me The students could not afford the
ny, time, even if they did get as far as
ean. But it has suffered from

the only means of providing league

Re participation for those who are infe eligible for Intercollegiate hockey.
A Whether this is sufficient justificai tion is questionable.

The intercollegiate team should
evoke the rah-rah spirit, if any
r could. But it has suffered from
lack of organization. If it had reee) ceived the same attention as the
Senior team, there would have been
a more creditable showing.
rays There must be lots of hockey
pes talent, but we want a team, not just
a group of hockey players, playing
together for the first time in a
BS game.
4 It is obvious from the attendance
or lack of it at the games that the
student body is not interested in
a watching hockey. Therefore the
ak: money for hockey should be spent
in the interests of those who play.
ee There should be greater concentration on hockey within the college.
» Active interfaculty hockey would

naturally mean a strong Intercolle
giate team. Unfortunately those
who are ineligible for that would
be ineligible for League participa_ tion and hence for awards. This
_--—s group would have to give way for
the general good.
A winning team, either Senior or

    
 
  
  
   
 
     
   

  
 
 

  

fal . . i: .
aM.
r e

1 rigs

=a

 
   
  

_ Intercollegiate, is not the sole or ficing anything of greater value.

 

Net Shots

By RETA
This year U.N.B. has entered a
team in the Intercollegiate League
and so U.N.B. plays Mt. A., and
Acadia plays Dal, and then the
winners play off. Last week at

 

Fredericton U.N.B. defeated Mt. A.,

to the surprise of everyone, and
they have yet to play a_ second
game, which will be at Mt. A.
Acadia has won two games from
Dal, but they still have to play two
more games, one here and one at
Acadia. The teanfaving the highest total score will then play the
winners of the New Brunswick section.

 

On Saturday at Mt. A. there will
be a conference to define the Women’s Intercollegiate Sports organization. Miss Wray and Marjorie
MacIntosh, assistant basketball manager, will be there to represent Dalhousie. U.N.B., Mt. A. and Acadia
will also be represented.

 

In the Interclass Basketball League
two games have been played—
Freshettes vs. Sophomores, which
was a tie, 18 all, and Sophs vs.
Junior-Seniors, in which the Sophs
won with a score of 18 to 8. On
Saturday the Freshettes will play
their second game against the
Sophs.

Also on Saturday the first team
will play a practice game against
the H.C.A. team.

With Hoop Squad

By JOAN A.
_ With the basketball season more

‘The chief difficulty in the matter
seems to lie in the inability of the
players to work as a unit and to
combine speed with team work.
Most of the spurts are individual
attempts and although these may be
alright for a few minutes they are
not sufficient to carry the whole
game.

It is hard to pick out any particular man for his special ability but
we can safely say that Rod Ideson
has proved himself to be more than
a match for any two players he*has
met in the league up to date and that
Mike Smith has had no difficulty in
holding his own. ~—

The two long tall drinks of water,
Hart and Anderson add a little color
to the scene and do a lot to give that
before-taking-ironized-yeast appearance, so damaging to the opponents.

What we would like to see is a
little more speed and excitement. At
least if you can’t win the game you
could do a lot to give the gallery
the thrill it expects and thus silence
the few souls who want to play
the game for you from the side lines.

 

DAFFYNITIONS
Coal—Spring sniffles.
Toast—Mammals have five.
Nose—A verb meaning to under
stand.
Greek—A small running stream.
Sole—A Heaven-bound parcel.
Pun—Soft, sticky, eatable.
Sun—Daddy’s pet product.
Gas—To spout bosh.
Slow—A._ liability.
Geological survey—A stony stare.

“Hypnotism Will Be Demonstrated” runs a headline in the Varsity.
The “Little Salesman” showing how
the Students’ Council bought the
Wurlitzer, maybe?

even the primary aim—but more
hockey for more people. Naturally
we want as strong a team as possible, but we want it without sacri
—_

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE 
LEN LIFTS MARITIME LADIES’ DOUBLES TITLE —

 

 
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

|

DAL ENTRIES

By MARJ. MacINTOSH

 

The Maritime Badminton Championship matches were held in the
Armouries at Amherst from Feb. 16
to 18. Three competitors in these
matches were from Dalhousie: Dorreen Dennis, who played in the mixed doubles with Ralph Swetnam,
and in the ladies’ doubles with Mrs.
Chipman of the M.O.B.C.; Maureen

February 24, 1939

 

AT AMHERST

 

| On Feathered Flight

 

By MAUREEN

That sport of sports so frowned
upon by D.A. A.C. and called the
sissies’ game is nevertheless one of
the most popular on the campus, as
is shown by the number who are always to be found playing it in the

Allen, who played with Mrs. Roper| 8ym.

in the ladies’ doubles, and who
played also in the ladies’ singles;
and Ralph Swetnam, the sole male
representative. Besides playing in
the mixed doubles, Ralph played in
the men’s doubles with Del Gibson,
and they reached the semi-finals in
the men’s consolation series.

Doreen and Ralph went to the
third round in the mixed doubles,
where they were defeated by Jim
Taylor and Evelyn Langlin: 15—10,
15—10. This team won the mixed
doubles* series.

In the ladies’ doubles Doreen Dennis and Mrs. Chipman reached the
quarter-finals before being defeated by Mrs. Goodwin and Mrs. Harvey, who went to the final round.
This was a very close match, going
to three sets.

Maureen Allen and .Mrs. H. L.
Roper won the ladies’ doubles
championship for the Maritimes for

Back Row (left to right): M. MacIntosh, I. Smith, P. Hendry, Miss Wray. | the second time, having won it last
Middle Row: M. Wood, J. Blackwood, F. Armstrong, I. Pentz.
Front: J. Anderson (Captain)

 

PEN SKETCHES

JOAN ANDERSON — Forward.
Captain for past two years. Joan
played her first game of basketball
in 1936-37. She is now high scorer
on the team.

JOAN BLACK WOOD — Forward.

"| Came. to Dalhousie after three years
lof Basketball with Glace Bay High} ¢

ne ce Vice is no promise that
| this will be changed i in the future.

School. Has been an important part
of team for two years.

CARLY SULLIVAN — Forward.
Third member of the forward lne
of Joan, Carly and Joan. Carly was
captain and star forward of the St.
Stephen’s High School for three
years before coming to Dalhousie.
She’s the girl who tossed the ball into the basket from the
floor, all with one hand.

IRENE PENTZ—Forward. After
many years of basketball with H. C.
A. and Y.W.C.A., Irene has played
three years.,at Daihousie. Her best
games have always been on the
Acadia floor. ‘On one occasion she
gained 16 points single handed.

PEGGY GORHAM — Forward.

Peggy’s basketball has been dogged by misfortune. Last year she
was out of the game all year due to
a knee injury received during practice and this year old man fiu has
been around. We are looking forward to having her back to repeat

- SOOT

(Feminine Counterpart of Filter)

 

 

I heard!
Yes! I heard!

It wasn’t told to me

I only heard!

I heard that the cherubic visage
of “heart-breaker” McKnight may
be found on a bureau in the girls’
residence at Acadia. Don’t take it
too hard, girls!

* 4: us

It seems that Hudie has been apologizing to Frannie ever since the
Phi Rho Formal. Girls’ nether garments, even long ones, aren’t usually on display.

The two co-eds going to Montreal
on this week-ends excursion have
been advised to call on Dacey, Dalhousie’s former woman-hater, to
show the the town. He is said to be
a connoisseur of wines and the best
places to get them.

% th

Me

What was ailing Gordon Hennigar

far end of the|

-- By Florence

the fine work she did in our first
game with Acadia. She has played
basketball with H. L. C. and H. C. A.

RETA HARRISON—Guard. Reta
has played basketball at H. C. A. and
for the past two years at Dalhousie.
She is a steady and dependable play
er, justly famous for her long shots

from center,

MARJORIE WOOD—Guard. The
product of Newfoundland and Memorial College. Marj does a supersuper job of guarding and is noted
for her spectacular intercepting.

FLORENCE ARMSTRONG —
Another product of H. C. A.. She
has played four years of amazing
basketball for Dal, besides managing thé team for two years.

INEZ SMITH — Guard. Playe
Lisear Collegiate. Has found it hard
to learn girls rules after playing
boys rules for six years.

PHYLLIS HENDRY Guard.
Came to Dalhousie from Edgehill
where she had a brilliant record.
She has proved herself to be capable
and hard working.

MARJORIE MacINTOSH — Is
assistant manager this year and will
automatically become manager next
year. She has been of great assistance to Florence.

 

at the dance after the skating party
the other night? At twelve o’clock
he asked the time, then groaned! He
didn’t think he could last until one.
He hadn't been skating, either!

i WE

What three engineers imbibed a
number(?) of cocktails before the
banquet Saturday night, and then
visited the bootlegger afterward?

* a x

Are the two seats in the corner by
the Wurlitzer in the gym store, reserved at twelve o’clock on Tuesdays
and Thursdays for King’s Joyful
Blonde and Friend?

ae * *

A Smith girl—beautiful one—not
Sally, or Inez, sin Norman’s the
other night got a note that read:

“Dearest—

“T have fallen in love with you! I
guess it is love at first sight.
Please give me a break and give me
your telephone number.

at you now.”
x * *

I’m looking

An apple helps with the girlfriend as well as with teacher, Wil
year when the matches were held
in Halifax. In the final round they
played Mrs. Goodwin and Mrs. Harvey, whom they defeated 15—5,
15—3. The hardest match that this
team had to play was in the semifinal round where they eliminated
Miss Jones and Miss Dix of Saint
John, only after three hard games.

Maureen Allen has twice won the
ladies’ doubles championship of the
Maritimes with Mrs. Harry Roper.
She has been badminton manager
of the D.G.A.C. for two years and
has played on the McCurdy Cup
team for three years. Maureen
plays at the Armouries usually and
the M.O.B.C. is supposed to have
the best selection of women in badminton of the local clubs.

There was a very large entry in
the Maritime matches this year, especially in the mixed doubles, in
which even thirty-seven teams participated. Any players taking part
in these matches are entirely on
their own, paying their own way
and entrance fees.

The Maritime Badminton Association presents prizes to the winners
of the various events. This year
badminton bags were given, in
which all one’s badminton equipment may be carried. Next year
the tournaments will be held in
Fredericton, N. B.

 

 

mur figures; but we didn’t think he
needed any help!

* * *

Is it cocoa or kisses that brings
the boys to Shirreff Hall of a Sunday night? We'll soon see. Of
course, now that they don’t have to
take time out to eat———

* Ed bs

Betty and Joan showed remarkable teamwork at the Arena and
afterward Tuesday night. It’s all
for convenience sake, I s’pose, but
it’s really difficult to find out ‘“who’s

is Hugh” around here!
% * ate

The far-off fields of Acadia are
not so green as they once were, according to Melba and George.

 

“IT was not offered the Order of
Merit because the government knew
I had already conferred it on
myself.——George Bernard Shaw.

 

Mary, Mary, quite contrary
How does you garden grow?
With silver bells and cockle shells,
And one darned petunia.
—Silver and Gold.

This year, along with the MceCurdy Cup matches which have
been played, three championships
have been won, while the single
champs will be crowned before
Munro Day, when we hope the trophies will be presented.

Doreen Dennis and Ralph Swetnam, who smashed their way to a
victorious finish in the mixed doubles
defeated Maureen Allen and Ray
Murphy in the finals in a hardfought battle which lasted for three
sets. .Teamed with Pat Patterson,
Doreen again came through to victory by winning the girls’ doubles,
and when the singles champ is announced wou can bet a dollar to a
doughnut that the same Doreen will
come through with colors flying to
win the Cup for the second time.

In the boys’ events Babe Stewart
and Gordon Heisler had easy victories to win the doubles Cup, but
there is great speculation in the
singles. We hear that Gordon Hennigar, the manager, has hopes of
setting his name on the trophy, but
there is keen competition!

 

Fun And Learning
At Speaking Club

 

Is there ahy girl at Dalhousie who |
feels practically paralyzed if she ~~
even thinks she may be called upon
to speak? Or is there anyone who
though she may be blessed with lots
of nerve, still feels she is awkward
or lacks finesse in speaking? Then,
if you be she—come to the Woman’s
Effective Speaking Club. There, under Miss Swaine who studied at the
Boston School of Expression, you
will learn how to speak easily and
effectively. Miss Swaine is kind and
friendly and not in the least overawing. It’s fun, too. Come and see
everyone scattered over the Sherriff
Hall sitting room, doing exercises to
make you relax and to give you
proper control over your speaking
museles. You’ll get lots of laughs
too, at yourself and at the others.
Picture three dignified co-eds walking across the room trying to do the
Hindu chant. Or another brilliant
co-ed talking for two minutes on
“Clothes-lines”’. You'll learn how
to take the chair at a meeting and
what the secretary’s duties are: how
to introduce the speaker, how to
move a vote of thanks, and many
other things, which when you leave
college everyone expects you to be
able to do efficiently. Watch the
notice boards for the notices of the
next meeting. Bring paper and pencil and forty cents, which is the fee
for the course. There are going to
be three more meetings, so that
means only about thirteen cents a
meeting. You'll find it quite worth
it.

Slobiter-
(Continued from page 3)

is true. Thus the opinions of the
fair sex should be given more prominence than their numbers warrant
for, as I have said, they will form
a majority group when they leave
college. The men should have. an
opportunity of learning the feminine
view-point and I can see no better
way for them to do so than by
letting the women run the Gazette
for a week. This is not a sign of
inequality but a sign of the importance of women’s opinions.
J. FUSS

 
    
  
   

 

Were a Dictator

   
   
   
  
   
  
 
    
  
  
  
 
   
  
    
  
 
  
   
 
 
    
    
 
   
   
  
 

3

 

of a. o

v Vd offer my apologies to
or my humble effort this week.

facil ? it’s
) iy a , pitiful sight to see a ; weadont
ber en ding over a book, searching for
knowledge in the gathering gloom.
Soon he finds he can not see anything zy, then someone will switch on
"the 2 lights and he makes a valiant
- e fort | to get his book out of the

phy speaks: “Pm just waiting a
Sadie Hawkins’ Day.” Then Henry
‘F Teartbreaker’ Ross: “What can a
fella do with two on his mind?”
Td tell Clary Gosse that another
al a tion is at hand. He is one of

» leading active politicians you
now.
wpa tell Bob, and Bud and Bruce
P Pig I think of their recently ac-|
re ‘qui ed “cookie dusters.” But then I
suppose all boys go through that
. Breas the sooner they get
o it the better.

I would make it known that Evatt
Me rchant is considered the most
poses for the position of
th

 

   
 

 

 
 

 

 

  
  
 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

wn
i)
=)
=)
uo}
PG
=
©
oS
u
=
®
om
°
2
©
o
=v)
na

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

-_-_——---—--——

Post Soa

MED NOTES

 

guest speaker at the meeting of the
Medical Society in the lecture room
at the Clinic. President George Murphy conducted the meeting.

 

The annual Med Banquet in honor
of the graduates will take place on
Saturday, March 4. All Med students are invited to attend.

 

“Doctor” Abe is giving lessons in
all modern types of dancing and
some ancient ones, ably assisted by
Percy, the colored boy. Classes are
held in the Children’s Ward of the
Vv. G. Specialties are “the shag”
and “Cape Breton hop”. Shades of
George Inman, one of the original
‘“litterbugs”!

 

Studies first, says Art. Only after that will he discuss the Council
-|and the Wurlitzer. He neglected to
tell us what came before the
studies!

 

The mighty Meds are not so
strong as they thought they were,
for even they are not immune to
disease. The Anatomy quiz is postponed indefinitely because of flu.

Mount A.
Defaults

. Always we have thought that
Dalhousie interest in debating was
very low but that state of debating

 

in colleges abroad is even more
| serious.” The following extract from

 

 

   
 
     
  
 
   
  
 
  
  
 
   
  
     
   
   
  
   
   
  
     
    
   
   
   
  
    
  
 
 
 
   
  
   
      

THOS a

don Kinley who: re
pa ing” outs. a. on in dite
the fact that he is a freshman his
technique, as displayed on the Glee
: _ Club stage, is generally admired
Wh nen we come to the well dressed
, Jack Boyd draws all eyes—
a “Bon od Street tailors we are told.
3 And for the flashy dresser George
By Collins heads the list. Clayton Hut‘ s gets all votes for the athlete
ee with personality plus, and did you
eae) near Frank Corcoran in the Glee
Be -Clab show? really, if you didn’t we
| sympathize with you; he has such a
Bi manly and attractive voice. Digby |
Lynch and Harry Housser create the |
y ‘ _ biggest splash when it comes tq the
- question of personality and for RoF wan Goleman—the eyes have it.
ae _ The co-ed’s discussed the “collar-ad’

Et

 

if

 

ol

a

=|
|
| |

ny

   
    
         
     
  
 
     
        
 
   
 
   
 

ei

|| Eat Wisely
Eat Well

The
Green Lantern

407-409 Barrington St.

    

 
 
   
  
   

Creo
B-6213 B-9614 B-9655

3-S TAXI

|| PATRONIZE THOSE WHO ADVERTISE FOR YOU

ja letter recently ail speaks for | )12
| it Cc sen,| Power enough to transport the N.
s) va) . Ww

ebates. Bee
-| have net. a

é "

‘DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

‘SPORTS SURVEY

by PHYLLIS WRAY

 

There is a list as long as infinity

Premier Angus L, Macdonald was} of sports in which college girls can

participate. Some of them have
great ‘possibilities of being developed at Dalhousie. Have you ever
thuoght of any of the following becoming an actuality.

ICE HOCKEY
There are good skaters at Dal but
the frown here is the unwholesome
expense of the Forum. I wonder if
the tennis courts could be the answer for hockey and skating.

LA CROSSE

Canada’s national game is almost
foreign in this part of Canada.
English school girls tell me that
they think its “frightfully good fun”.
It IS a good game full ‘of action and
fun to learn. Our athletic field is
a perfect set-up for it.

GOLF

A few girls turned out for it this
autumn. The campus oval and
Gorsebrook offered splendid opportunity. Golf is a valuable game for
post-college days. The idea would
be to learn the fundamental shots
and use them in the summer. A
golf club for men and women is not
an impossibility,

ARCHERY

This is the most fascinating of
sports. The simplicity of learning
is attractive to beginners and the expert never grows weary of improving. Our campus again is an excellent situation.

VOLLEYBALL

Here is a game that is easily
learned, and that also an intriguing
team game.

SWIMMING

When swimming is mentioned, the

blast of sighs that ensues would be

oun to the old foundation | on the

Nevertheless while we
pool, the Y. M. C. A. has,

+
oe

  

ose| and 25c and instruction will do their

debaters? we have no ‘ati course
but to default”. This, only a week
before Frank Corcoran and Lawrence
Hanway were to invade Mount Allison from Sodales was surprising and
disappointing. .

Scheduled to take place Tuesday,
Feb. 28th, at St. F. X. is the debate
“Resolved that the Canadian Government shoud recommend names for
inclusion in His Majesty’s Honour
List”. Upholding the negative for
Dalhousie will be the able team of
Harry Housser, a veteran of last
year, and George Piercey, Bennett
Shield winner for the Class of ’38.

type and both Carleton Stanley and
|Clyde Strickland filled all requirements. and have you noticed
Dick Murphy’s smile? If you care
for songbirds, Doug Bagg is your
man. We are told he will shortly
become an opera star—that is if

| practising means anything.

If I were a dictator I’d stop the
co-ed discussion at this point.
I'd insist on more space for the
original writer of this column, but
as for me
This is through!

A well-driven golf ball leaves the
head of the club at 135 miles an
hour. This is said to be only slightly

 

‘best for your strokes,

FENCING
Professor Korning is an expert
teacher and has held classes at 8.30
on Tuesday evenings for those who
desire it.
SOCCER
Girls in private schools and colleges are taking up this hitherto
masculine game and enjoying itBOW LING
There are exceptionally fine bowling alleys in Halifax. It would be a
simple matter to organize groups
‘and make reservations to be had at
student rates.
CANOEING AND ROWING
These activities could take the
form of special outings in the autumn. Where can you find better
facilities than in Halifax?
HIKING
A great thing for the Arts and
Science Society to organize as one
of its activities. There are many
interesting expeditions to be made
in this vicinity. A great scope for
adventure and experience is offered
by the large Youth Hostel Movement
in America and Europe for vacation
hikers.
RIDING
If parties were formed the cost
would be cut down. The stables and
bridle paths*aré satisfactory for both

faster than a golfer leaves the office.|the beginner and the accomplished

—Silver and Gold.

 

Special Luncheon

Regular Meals and a La Carte
Telephone B-9555

Lohnes’ Restaurant

123 Hollis St. HALIFAX
Thousands of Satisfied Customers
Recommend Us.

   

horsewoman. It is marvellous fun
and a superior type of exercise.
TRACK AND FIELD
Annually a half holiday is given
for the Dalhousie track and field
meet. For a number of years no
girls have taken part, although there
is much potential material. Training and instruction could be started

in constant eitediation: for ;

——————

ee

 

 

___Page Five Five :

INS HERALD AND MAIL SWIMMING CUP

THOMAS EXCELLS IN DIVING

KIRKPATRICK STARS IN MEET ©

 

| Law Best Shots
|

As the season ends we find the
Law team reigning supreme in the
realm of interfaculty basketball.
This season undoubtedly saw the
most successfully league and the best
basketball to grace _ interfaculty
circles in several years. All teams
entered into the spirit of keen competition inspired by the leaders with
the result that games were seriously
played and victories only won by
unusually small margins. The scores

 

It seems Seroneiate that on the! indicated the keeness of the play
sport page of a co-ed edition some! and the enthusiastic spirit with

space should be devoted to the person who is fundamentally responsible for co-ed sports| That person
is Miss Phyllis Wray. Miss Wray
is the first full-time physical instructress we have had at Dal, and,
in the five months she has held that
position she has accomplished more

and inaugurated more new activities.
than anyone else in the last five!

years.
Previous to this year the only

 

which each team battled for honors.

The close of the season finds
the Engineers, keen competitors

| “aroughout the season, resting in

second place behind the leading
Lawyers. Closely on their heels
came Arts & Science and Medicine
tied for third place, with Frosh and
Dents fighting to avoid cellar position. All teams were closely bunched behind the leaders so that the
league was not decided until the

athletic activities that were open to| final game.

more than half a dozen girls were
basketball and ground hockey. Other
sports such as tennis and badminton were virtually closed to the
girl who had had no previous training in them. Gym classes were conducted in a very dilatory fashion
and little interest was taken in
them. Minor activities were practically non-existent.

Now all that is changed. Miss
Wray has put athletic activities for
women on the campus. This year
both baskeball and ground hockey
have not only had a record turnout, but P. T. classes are no longer
|attended with a feeling of compulsion but with a feeling of anticipation. And as for minor activities,
never before has the Dalhousie girl
had such a range of sport to choose
from. Beginners’ classes have been
organized in all the major games.
Instruction in golf and tennis was
given as an option to P. T. during
the months when the weather made
this possible. Classes in activities
ranging from fencing to folk dancing offer splendid opportunity for
every girl in the college to have at
least one pet sport. All this Miss
Wray has accomplished practically
by herself.

In regard to the. various co-ed organizations on the campus such as
Delta Gamma, D.G.A.C., ete., Miss
Wray has shown herself not only
willing but exceptionally able to
help us with our problems. She
came to Dalhousie to be placed in a
position which nobody had held before her and so she had to cope
with an endless variety of situations with no guide but her own
courage and finesse. In five short
months Miss Wray has done a tremendous amount for women’s athletics and we know that right now

she is plotting and planning to dol.

even more.
And so we want to say,
Orchids! to Phyllis Wray.

SKATING AND SKIING

The successful skating party of
Tuesday proves that organization
and support behind skating and skiing parties makes the effort worthwhile.

STUNTS AND TUMBLING

A club could be formed to advance
those who have an ability and an interest in this direction. This would
also include apparatus work. .

TAP DANCING

Any interested group can instigate
a class and readily attain a good
efficiency.

 

 

the first week of college.

MACLEOD, BALCOM, LIMITED
DRUGGGISTS

Halifax, Sheet Harbour and Kentville, N. S.

 

  

     

 

 

Playoffs will begin next week with
Medicine vs. Arts & Science battling
for the right to meet the Engineers
in a sudden death elimination carrying with it the honor of entering
league finals against the mighty Law
quintette.

 

The Visit of Beattie

 

Phillip R. Beattie, National Secretary of the Student Christian MoveMent of Canada, arrives in Halifax
on Thursday, March 2. Mr. Beattie
is the most prominent visitor the
S. C. M. has had this year. He has

{just returned from the Madras Con
ference, to which every church in the
world sends representatives. He will
have much of great interest to tell
us of the conference and its results,
during his stay in Halifax.

:
i Ee

 

It’s rather nice to see this headline for a change isn’t it? One gets
tired of the usual “Dal Defeated” or
“Axmen Down Tigers” or Dal Girls
Lose”. The girls team went to the
Swimming Meet and came back with
the Halifax Ladies’ Swimming Title
and they did it by a majority of 30
points.

This meet is open to any day club
or school in Halifax an deach organization may enter not more than two
entries in each race. The point system is used. 10 points for first
place, 5 for second, and 3 for third.

This year there was a surprisingly
small number of swimmers and certainly most of the best swimmers in
the city weren’t there. Dal. with the
help of only four swimmers (and we
wonder why only four) easily outdid
the other teams. The three highest
scorers were Shirley Kirkpatrick,
Bette Thomas, and Reta Harrison
who along with Bertha Woolaver
captured the Herald and Mail
Trophy.

The three Dalhousians are good all
round swimmers. They have been
swimming at the Waegwoltic Club
for years and last summer Reta and
Shirley earned silver medals from
the Royal Life Saving Society.
Bette has her bronze medal and has
also won many diving contests both
at the Waeg. and Dartmouth.

Shirley Kirkpatrick was the highest scorer in the meet with Franc.
Powers of H. L. A. C, coming second,

You Must Read This

Arts and Science Society meets
in Chem Theatre, Tuesday noon to |
elect next year’s Executive and
Council representatives.

Nominees, which may be added to
at the meeting, are

President—Don MacKeigan, Gordon Kinley.

Vice-President—Inez Smith, Marion Little.

Sec.-Treas.—Kay Hicks, Suzanne
Ramsey.

: ae + a ae

e

   

    
   

 

  
  

   

 
 

  

  

   
  

     
 

  

 

   
 
  

     
  

  

 

 

  
 
 
 

 

 

  

 

  

 

  

  

 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 
  
  
 
    
   
      
    
  

 
 
  
    

WITT LIT,

PIPE FOBACCO L&&

 
 

  

* It has a delight
ful satisfying flavour—
this new mixture of
choice Virginia and
Burley tobaccos,
i blended with Perique
y and Latakia. Try it.

 
   

    
 
 

 

 

 

 

24% SPRING GARDEN RD

1 CENT SALE

Bring your friend and have

2 PERMAMENTS FOR THE
PRICE OF ONE—PLUS Ic

 
  
    

now in progress

   
 
      
   
 
  
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
  
 
    
  
  
   
   
  
  
  
  
   
       
      
      
      
   
       
           
         
    

Es ee nadia was s oake sehichts to
t cin 4) e Pp the light going in her room
Bin until | two in the morning. Then with
her eyes reddened with fatigue,

_ Marie left her books and threw her
me self down on the bed.”
a And this was the world’s gréatest

a

er tharriage in 1395, with Pierre
cara 8 a man as ramarkable as her
os at a common task. But
‘marriage meant that now Marie
his would have to give more time to
S such necessary things as cooking,
at shopping, and other housekeeping
nee tasks. Not for an instant did she
give up any of the work she was
ne th, already doing, but crammed into her
: day and night the extra tasks.
‘She was now working for her
ats " | doctorate degree. Before her mar- riage she had obtained her Master’s
_ degree in Physics and in MatheKY matics. In looking for a subject for
Mt her Doctorate’s thesis she was attracted by Henri Becquerel’s discovery that “uranium salts spontaneously emitted without exposure to
ieee: some rays of unknown nature.”
her desire to investigate this
phenomenon Mme Curie took her
r t re on the road which was
ding eet to the discovery of

  

        
      
       
     
      
      
    
       
  
  
 

  

pest to| was the Ging t6 ie they allt em."
| selves — an

ht ‘or herself, ‘for the hpi
of her. Only the force

  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
    
  
  

o saw the benefits to
. fe ine for humanity by her dis¥ covery, she worked harder than ever
in her efforts to have it become a
- benefit to mankind. Always she saw
te just which things in this world matter, and which are only cluttering up
our existence. At a banquet given
_ for her and her husband, she amused
herself by reckoning up the number
of beautiful laboratories which could
be built with the jewels around the
necks of the women. 7
To my mind, this Biography is one
ef those not too numerous books,
_ which having finished, you wish that
--—- you had not yet read, that you might
ye Se still ee those hours of pleasure

be

    
   

EF. F, C,

  
  
  
  
 

 

By Word of Mouth—

_ plained George Tamaki, one of the
three delegates from the Law
_ School. In this way more interest
will be created between Maritime
_ colleges and better good will.

    

 
   
   
 

ence was indeed due to the organ_ ization. Clayton Hutchins remarkE ed, “Everyone in an official position
gave all his time to the success of
his job. This helped the Conference
— _ tremendously. The hospitality with
| which the students met most pleasing. St. F. X. did her best and the

fa ag en agree that her best is

   
   
   
  
    
 
     
  
   
 

“George
-_ a

a was a great person to sleep.
oe The first might I came in at

ae

i.
pe

      

    
 
   
 
  
   

     
     
 
 

The great success of the Confer-|.

Hilda met a man named. Horace.

| Now Hilda was able to win Horace

and become Mrs. Hassard because

|her many girl friends had the cour
age to warn her when she began to
offend and commit that deadly sin
| which no man can forgive. Hilda
was a good girl and so she was maree in white statin and orange
blossoms. Horace was a good boy
and so took her to Niagara Falls and
points East on their honeymoon.

Already a heavy shadow hung over
the happy couple. War was declared
between Britain and Germany. The
year was 1914. England expected
every man to do his duty and Horace
was no mouse. He went to France.
Hilda outwardly wept but inwardly
| swelled with pride when she kissed
his darling face good-bye. Her
scrawny hero was to save Canada
from the cruel and wicked Germans.
Everyone knew that the Germans
were bullys. Men like Horace were
going to show them that it does not
pay to fight against those who
never do anyone any harm.

But he eame back. Horace had
been a very brave man and had
twisted his bayonet in many a barbarian’s stomach. He was a hero.
The world was now free for democracy and the great British
Empire. The Hassard bought a
house in a respectable neightborhood
and Mrs. Hassard proudly filled it
with too much furniture and too
many knick knacks. Mr. Hassard
was a business man. He had a sliding rule of values. and so soon
became a financial success. About
this time a sweet little bundle of joy
was sent to them. Mr. Hassard went
out and got respectably drunk. He

he | felt that it was his duty as a father
ge, of oben eee Florence

imposing town house
which Hilda filled with pretentious
antiques and too many nick-knacks.
Horace Hassard was good for a
drink any time and so he joined all
the clubs and was a social success.
His wife, Hilda contributed generously to every charity and graciously
loaned her spacious, charming home
with its beautiful conservatories to
all societies, and she was also a
social success.

Florence was installed in a pink
and white nursery with little fairies
hand-painted on the wall. Mrs. Hassard insisted on bringing up the
child by herself. She had no use for
those modern women who drink
cocktails, smoke cigarettes and dash
about in cars all the time with men
who are not their husbands. She
wished to be an old-fashioned wife
and mother despite her keen interests
in charities (Red Cross, Woman’s
Aid, Hospital Board), the Arts (support of Little Theatre, Community
Concert and Women’s Music Club).
Florence was bathed by her mother’s
well-manicured hands, with the soap
that is pure enough for a baby’s
tender skin and dusted with the
powder about which every baby
gleefully gurgles. “Nothing like it
to keep a fellow’s skin smooth and
comfortable”. Mrs. Hassard gave
her cod-liver oil and watched for a
well-shaped head, a fine full chest
and a strong back. Her little
Florence had all three. She grew
fat and dimpled on specially prepared foods. Hilda was happy.
Horace was very, very proud.

Hilda and Horace were Christians.
They went to the wealthiest church
once a week and sat where all could
see them. They were simply contented with life, themselves and
Florence. The smirk on Mr, Hassard’s face when he sat in his pew,
reflecting, meant that a new merger
had been completed, at the expense of the smaller firms, for
jhis concern of Hogg, Hogg and
and Hogg Ltd., of which he was
president. Yes, he was a Christian,
and so was his wife. She contri
Once upon a time a girl named

   
     
   
 
    
    
  
  
 
    
  
  

‘ Overheard:

to death.

If you permit him to make love to you, he gets tired after a while,
and if you don’t he gets offended in the beginning.

If you agree with him in everything, you cease to charm him,
you don’t, he says you are unreasonable.

If you don’t believe all he tells you he believes you are a cynic, and
if you do, he thinks you are a darn fool!

If you wear gay colors, rouge and startling hats, he hesitates to take
you out; and if you wear a brown toque, a tailored suit, he takes you out
and gazes all evening at some other woman in gay colours.

If you are jealous of him he cannot endure you, and if you are not,

he doesn’t understand you.

If you join in his gaieties and approve of his drinking, he vows you
are leading him to the devil; and if you don’t, he calls you a wet blanket.
If you are affectionate he soon tires of your kisses, and seeks con
solation in some other woman.

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

SCIENCE MEETING TUESDAY AT NOON

FROM THE GIRLS TO THE BOYS——

MAN!
I thought that I understood man—but, alas! I have discovered:
If you flatter man, it frightens him, and if you don’t he is bored

scheme.
tional.

and if

If you are sweet, old-fashioned and a clinging vine he doubts if you
have brains; and if you are modern, advanced and independent, he doubts

if you have a heart or scruple.

If you are cute and boyish, he longs for a soulmate; and if you are
brilliant and intellectual, he longs for a playmate.

If you are tempermental and poetical, he longs for a help-mate, and
all the time, though he is falling in love with you for what you are, he
is trying to remodel you into what you are not, never were and never

will be.

Don’t ask how all these things were discovered—but, well, isn’t it

the truth?

 

Pine Hill Spillits—
(Continued from page 3)
disappointed feelings,

placed him

upon a stretcher and slowly but
sympathetically brought him back to
the crow’s nest where he affectionately nursed him through the grave

period of mental distress.

That evening as he departed he
said to one James Cross “take care
of this our unfortunate brother who
had the misfortune to fall among an

official ‘tubbing committee’

and

whatsoever more liniment or Carter’s

Little- Liver pills you need please

consult the House Doctor.”

wn towr ‘this afternoon and I saw
’ sal is Rogmired vel

ar Ti pa!

     
      

Lost:
Between Room 17 and Room 68
the Dr. Currie Hebrew Memorial

 

buted to the fund for little Chinese
‘boys.

Florence kept on growing up. She
had straw-colored hair, crooked teeth
and was_very thin. Mrs. Hassard
was a well-read woman. She never
missed her Ladies Home Journal,
Woman’s Home Companion, or Pictorial Review. She knew how to
eorrect these faults. Little Florence
was given ovaltine to drink. Her
hair was brushed daily and washed
with Golden Glint Hair Rinse. Bands
were clamped on her teeth. Florence
was dragged to music lessons, skating lessons, dancing lessons, elocution and painting. She rode her
father’s thoroughbreds at the Fairs
from a tender age. The ungainly
little girl developed into a _ wellgroomed young lady whose hair
shone, who was too lovely for words

even when she smiled and had a

complexion translucent as alabaster.
Her clothes were carefully chosen
with the aid of Vogue.

Dear Daddy Hassard loved his
daughter. And he loved his wife
deeply. But he did not have time
for them. He was much too busy
playing golf, going to the club, moving with the respectables, and
making more money so that he could
continue to lead this life of comfort
and joy. The fates had been kind
to him.

Dear Mother Hassard loved he
daughter. And she loved her husband deeply. But she did not have
time for them.

Dear beautiful Florence Hassard
loved her mother and father. And
she loved her husband deeply. Since
Florence was a good girl she had
been married in white satin and
orange blossoms.

Already a heavy shadow hangs
over the happy couple. War is imminent between Britain and Germany. The year is 1989. We must
support Britain, thought the happy
family—the Maritime university students have spoken.

ee a

 
 

Prize—Finder please consult A. C.
MacKenzie, Room 26.

   
   
   
 
 
 
  

 

Strange as it may seem:

Pine Hillers are getting down to
some real honest work. Evidence:
The silvery tongued orators from the
second and third year men orating
on everything from “Man Must
Speed” (we wonder what after) to
*Women of Noranda”.

 

Gleaned from the Pepper Pot:

“Buy Crowe for what he is worth
(91 cents is the average worth of
man if I’m not mistaken). Sell him
for what he thinks he is worth; net
result—a handsome profit.”

   
  
 
  

 

  

We are still wondering: |

‘that freshman appearance—possibly
his room-mates influence . . . Why]
Tan Robb still travels as fast as a
secret at a sewing circle ... Where
Bill Murray obtained that million
dollar smile . . . Whether Bob Condon is really considering doing some
work for a change . .. Whether
Murray MacDonald got that ‘box’ he
was inquiring for at Snow’s Undertaking Parlour ... Whether it is for
spiritual glorification or aesthetic
satisfaction that Barret takes such
an interest in the sing-songs at the
Y.W.C.A.

  
  

    
     
  
   
   
    
   

   

    
       
       
        
       
     
 
  

NOTICES
Newfoundland Club:

Will meet on Sunday at 2.30 in the
Arts Building.

Class ’39:
Will meet in Room 8 of the Arts
Building, Thursday, March 2, for the

purpose of electing life officers of
the class. ©

Bob of Western Maitlands would
have it known that he is available
for the Pi Beta Phi Formal. You'll
get him at B-4173.

 
  
 

  

SPALDING

SPORT AND
ATHLETIC GOODS
are the finest you can buy

Spalding Representatives
for Nova Scotia

   
   
   
  

 
 
 
  

    
   
    

    

456-460 BARRINGTON ST.

curs,

‘Why Carman Riggs does not lee te

Res

Presidents Favor—

(Continued from page one)

whose opinions Principal Wallace of
University College (Toronto) conthinks that there are two
excellent reasons for supporting the

The first reason is educa“There is a great tendency
for our students to become too restricted in their outlook.”
ray said.
national one.

Dr. Mur“The other reason is a
I forsee great danger
of estrangement between East and
West in the years to come, and every
movement that brings the people of
the East and West together is of
great national value.”

An Exchange Scholarship permits
the holder to study for one year at

February 24, 1939

{a Canadian University other than ~
lhis “home” university without pay
ing tuition fees. Full details may be
obtained from the local N.F.C.U.S.
representative, Mr. Henry Ross. Exchange Scholarship candidates need
not have first-class academic
standing.

Vice-Presidency Nominee—
(Continued from page 1)
resent women students; Bob Swansburg, Gordon Hennigar, Norman
Sorge and Jack Charman as candidates for the male students. From
these nominations, which may be
increased by nominations from the
floor at Tuesday’s meeting, five
Arts and Science Society students

will be elected.

 

 

EATON’S

Men’s
New Spring Felts
Are Here!

each 4.50

Renown
each 3.50

Fine fur felts in these two
popular EATON lines! — In
snap, welt and bound brim
models for men and young
men ... See them on display
in the Store.

wT.

 

@® Now Offered

In the familiar pouch or new
slide packages. A tastier, milder
cigarette made from much
better tobaccos. Try them.

CIGARETTES

   

 

-EATON’S Men’s Hat Department—Main Floor

EATON C°

MARITIM

 

  
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
  
   
  
 
 
 
 
       
   
  

ree
2hiz,
Ais
ae,
sete
Ott,
Ai

B-6584
Oxford Theatre Bldg.
Halifax, N. S.

French Hair Stylist
Special Prices For
Students

Anna MacLean, Prop.

 
  

AFTER CLASS OR AFTER THE SHOW
WHY NOT DROP INTO

THE CAMEO

 
  
 
  
  

OPENING TODAY—
OUR NEW SPRING COATS, SUITS AND

DRESSES—

We invite yo uto see them.
PAULETTE, LIMITED

13Y, Spring Garden Road

 

nl

 

 
   
 
 
 
   
 

 

a ea algae”

 
  
  
 
  

 
 
   
  
 
    
      
 
      
  

   
 
  
    
   
          
  

   
  
      
   
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
   
  
   
 

 

   
 
 
 
 
  
   
   

   
   
  
    
    

 

     
 
  
 
  
   
   
  
 
   
