    
 
  
    

™ EN

+
is : |
T's. &

one step in advanc

 

Beat oe segs",
mes

5
i

    
  

i P, .
~~ =
yo, ty

 
 

    

é :

 

 

tep in advance of the rest
of the ‘world in social legislation”,

‘said Professor C. L. Bennet, Head

of the English Department, in
addressing the Dalhousie students
on “Socialism in New Zealand”.
“Adult suffrage, free secular edu
cation, Old Age Pensions, were in

force in New Zealand by 1900, arbitration of Industrial Disputes by
1908”. This advanced social program has been the result of the
geographical, historical, and political
background of New Zealand. Far
removed from the centre of things,
the people feel they must do something about it while not knowing
what is going on in the rest of the
world. New Zealanders are practically all of British stock, a fine sort
of people whose ancestors, ambitious
and self-respecting, found in New
Zealand, after enduring the hardships of emigration, a place where a
livelihood is easily obtained.

Prior to 1935 an extreme Liberal
government was in power. The
present Labour Government developed after New Zealand had a first
class depression, brought about because the country had not adjusted
itself to fulfilling the wants of the
urban population. In a growing
manufacturing country the people

- were still expecting the easy liveli
hood obtained from agricultural
Bre ere
The head of the Government,
Major Coates, ignored the demands
of the proletariat with the result
that the Labour Government now
has control. The Premier, Michael
Joseph Savage, is a man of high
ideals, but not practical. Unemployment has been reduced, while the
country is being expanded far beyond its resources. In a farming
country the government is far too
generous to labourers, who receive
$6.00 per day in a forty-hour week,
and two weeks vacation with travelling expenses. The result is that
New Zealand can’t even make her
own products in competition with the
rest of the world. A Social Service
plan in force, similar to the Townshend Plan, means that those who
earn and save are keeping those who
don’t.

Dalhousie Chemistry
Society

A number of students of chemistry
held a meeting at Studley on Monday evening, November 21, for the
purpose of organizing a new chemistry club. Officers were elected and
a program committee was appointed
to arrange for a meeting to be held
on January 12, 1939. Membership is
open to any students interested in
chemistry.

Most of the leading chemists of
the University felt that a club that
would have chemistry and its applications to other sciences and to
industry would be of interest to
chemistry students. If managed
capably, it would help students in
their studies, as well as provide a
diversion from the type of lectures
delivered in regular classes. Besides
encouraging the student to read
papers of their own preparation, it
is hoped that the club will be able
to have speakers from outside the
University and to hold field trips to
points of interest in and around the
city. Student papers should be a
help to those students who may be
called upon in later life to speak
before such meetings,

It is hoped that the club will bring
about a closer affiliation among the
chemistry students, and it may even

 

 

evi ee fi lg tS if et hee en oh pods i
pe gts ke #4 id d

ee
ee
r 7 a
GF gh: y j

always kept |

- . “ 7
~ wee
f

an Pe
ee go: Detaceaipinen noord Sie Pieard

rere.’

 

peaks Tuesday

   

    
   

Mr. A. L. Miller

Tuesday noon, in the Chem Theatre, Mr. A. L. Miller of Jerusalem
will speak on “Palestine, Retrospect and Prospect”. That evening
he will meet informally with students at 51 Coburg Road.

Mr. Miller comes to Dal under
the auspices of the S.C.M. and with
his visit will be drawn to a close
the activities of the Movement here
this term.

Mr. Miller comes from the Y. M.
C. A. in Jerusalem, where he is the
general secretary, and as such is the
head of a staff of 14 secretaries and
59 other employees, from 7 different
nationalities. The Jerusalem Y, as
might be expected in these troubled
days in Palestine, faces many difficult problems because of race antagonisms and political tension.

Mr. Miller is a man qualified by
22 years of service in the Orient
and near East, and by personality
and qualities of leadership to deal
in a statesmanlike manner with intricate and delicate problems. He
Was appointed to Jerusalem after
19 years of service with the Y.M.
C.A. in India, where he showed
great ability in training Indian
leaders to carry on independently.
He is a native of Iowa and a graduate of Morningside College in
Sioux City. He received his M. A.
degree from Boston University,

Before entering in the foreign
work for the Y.M.C.A. he was for
two years student secretary and
for one year state secretary for
North Dakota, and for four years

 

general secretary of the Student |

Association at the University of
Indiana.

Jerusalem Association.
“The Association emphasizes the

things which the conflicting groups

have in common as against the
forces that hold them apart. There
are more than 1,200 men and boys
in its membership, representing 33
nationalities, and many hundreds
more participate in its physical,
educational, and social activities.

“In April, 1938, an anniversary
dinner was held, celebrating five
years of work in the Association’s
present building which was erected
with funds provided by a bequest.
In this building, probably the most
beautiful architecturally of any Y.
M. C. A. in the world, and with
modern equipment, boys and young
men of Jerusalem are finding a
common basis for friendship and
understanding.”

Oe

reveal to some an interest in a field
of which they had never known before. The basic aims of the society
are to stimulate an interest in
chemistry at the University and to
make the subject more interesting to
chemistry students. It is hoped that
all interested students will attend
the meeting on January 12. Everyone is welcome.

 

  
  
  
 

=<ette

 

 

HALIFAX, N. S., NOVEMBER 25, 1938

"Sheal" Editor
Dismissed

Following publication of a
special “Armistice Day” issue
of the University of Saskatchewan “Sheaf’’, Cleo Mowers, editor, was forced to resign by
the Students’ Council. In protest over the resignation more
than four hundred students
signed a petition demanding a
plebiscite, and a meeting of
the students passed a resolution asking that all relevant
facts about the controversy be
published in the ‘Sheaf’. If
this request were refused,
money offered by individual
students would be used to
publish an independent report. In asking the Students’
Representative Council to demand Mowers’ resignation, Don
Armour, president of the Council, threatened to hand in his
resignation if Mowers were not
ousted.

On November 10 the “Sheaf”’ published a special Remembrance Day
issue in which the problem of war
and peace received considerable attention. There was a contribution,
“Cease Fire!” from Rey. J. S. Thomson, President of the University.
He pointed out what Remembrance
Day now means to those who fought
in the war, and what it should mean
to present day students.

Under the caption, “Twenty Years
After” there were six short statements, apparently from _ students.
These expressed a wide variety of
opinions, which were not by any
means in complete agreement. Doug
Cherry, whose contribution received
the greatest storm of protest, said:

|
|

“IT bare my head for two minutes |

 

Debaters From Down Under

 

Fred Thonemann, one of the touring Australian debaters, who will

debate here on Wednesday, Dec. 7,
was born in 1914 at Melbourne and
educated at Melbourne Church of
England Grammar School and Trinity College, University of Melbourne. He is a student in Science
and Law. While at Trinity he represented the College in debating
from 1934 to 1936. In 1935 he won

 

the President’s Medal for Oratory
and Wigram Allan Essay Prize. In

 

1986 he was Secretary of Trinity

Dialectic Society and won the Leep- |

er Prize for Oratory,
record total of points.

scoring a

1987 saw him secretary of the
Melbourne University Debating Society and it was he who brought
about the now famous Spanish Bullfight Debate. From 1934 until 1937
he was selected in the University
Debating Team and is keenly interested in politics, literature, dramatic

on Armistice Day. I do not do so| work, and people. He has been a
out of respect for those who were| member of the cast of the last three

killed in the Great War....

Melbourne University Revues and

“I bow my head on armistice day performed with credit in the Trinity
for two minutes; I am mourning | College Dramatic Society’s renderthose who had courage enough to ing of Edgar Wallace’s “The Case
stand by their principles and defy | of the Frightened Lady”,

(Continued on page 4)

Pharos Editor
Chooses Staff

Editor-in-chief—Clarence L. Gosse
Business Mgr.—Henry C. Reardon
Assoc. Editors—Joan Blackwood
Fred Barton

Photographic Editor—Jim Rankine
Feature Editor—George Murphy
Sport Editor—George Corston
Advertising Mgr.—Mary Hayman
Asst. Adver. Mgr.—Inez Smith |

The Year Book for the past |
three years has consisted of a
beautifully bound one hundred and
twenty-eight page book, a book that
contains the pictures of the gradu-|
ates of the various faculties, the
class pictures, the team pictures of
girls and boys athletics, pictures of |
the society executives, views of the
campus, informal snapshots, a fraternity section and an Advertising
section.

This book, valued very conservatively at $10.00 is sold to the students for the low cost of $2.00.

As there are only 3800 books
available it is suggested that all|
students desirous of procuring a
copy should not get in touch with a
member of the staff and pay a $1.00
deposit.

 

Work on the publication has been
underway for the past two weeks
and it is expected that this year the |
book will be on the campus not later
than Munro Day, March 14,

All the graduates in Arts and
Science, Commerce and Engineering
are requested to go to Gauvin and
Gentzel as soon as possible between
the hours of 2 and 5 p.m. All glossy
prints should be in the hand of
the Editor before the Christmas
vacation.

Class ‘41 Holds
Lively Meeting

 

A meeting of Class ’41 was held in|

Room 38 on Thursday, with the
President, George Hagen in the|
chair. Although there were only |

fifteen present, it was a_ spirited)

| meeting.

The constitution of the Arts and
Science Society was the basis for
discussion, particularly that section
of the constitution headed Finance. |
Various attempts were made to/|
break away from this section and |
discuss some other points but in the |
end everything came back to the|
money question. |

Some idea of the views expressed
in the meeting may be gauged by
the following motions:

|

I. That Class of ’41 turn over all |
their money to the Arts and Science |
Society except that paid by the engineers who will not be members of
that Society. Motion defeated.

II,
one hundred dollars to the Arts

of the class funds which may be
handed over at a later date if it is
desired. Motion defeated.

Ill. That Class of ’41 turn over |

 

Science Society.

favour of an Arts and Science

Society.

good work by saying that the engi
neers should get some money back they are
from the class funds if the class from long
broke up to join the Arts and Science
Society.

 

 

he was Captain of Debates for two| school,

That Class of ’41 turn over| eau has been established in order to
and| find part-time or summer jobs for
Science Society, keeping the balance |college students and often permanent positions.
requests for people for certain positions, which the Bureau fills with
students whose applications are on
twenty-five dollars to the Arts and_| file.

Motion defeated. | be obtained in the Alumni Room in|
The meeting as a whole was in! the

Walter Lawson admirably | able to help several students, there
presented a case in favour of the|are many problems facing it. Chief
new society, but always undid his| among these is that not many employers send in requests, because

No, 9

“Mariposa Bung” Is
Feature Production

Headline show of the second
presentation by the Glee Club
Executive next Wednesday evening
is “Mariposa Bung”, one-act farce,
directed, cast, made-up, set, ete., by
the Executive itself. No official announcement has as yet been made
| regarding the rest of the program,
but it will probably feature selections by the Band, and by sundry
| talented luminaries on the Campus.

“Mariposa Bung, or the Belle of
the Mariposa” toncerns the age-old
tragedy of a girl (Joan Blackwood)
| betrayed in one way or another by
a Villian (Ian MacIntosh), who meets
just due at the hands of the hero
(Johnny Morrison). The complete
cast is as follows:

Capt. Sol Bung—Wm “Jake” Stevens
| Ben, the Bos’un—C. W. “Budweiser”

Hugh Robson, LL.B. the Sydney|  Hiseler.

(New South Wales) member of} Mariposa Bung—Joan
the team of Australian debaters, Dagger” Blackwood.
who will appear here on Wednesday, | Bertram Carew—Jonathan
December 7, does not claim to pos- staihs” Morrison.

sess the good looks and Lochinvar Squibs, “The Key-Hole Peep”—
appearance of his colleague, Fred-| Jan “Two Gun” MacKintosh.

erick Thonemann, of Melbourne Uni- Helmsman—J. Frederick Dobson.
versity (Victoria) . He is rather| Sockout—Bric “Tt Goes” Howell.
slight and appears more youthful Pigeon Messenger — Don “Hell’s
than he really is. Although a law- Angel” Williams.

yer, he has yet to acquire the look
of one, and has rather the appear- |
ance of a cheerful school-boy. His
early life was spent in the country
and he is as familiar with the life
of an Australian farmer as he is
with “the man about town”,

Before entering Sydney University he received Honors in English
and History, winning a scholarship
which entitled him to ae university plays the title role in “Mariposa
education free. Robson's chief ie | Bung”, or “the Belle of the Frowsy
in life is musie, and he admits Emma”, greeted us with a ravishing
frankly that he prefers a symphony smile, as we asked her what she
concert to a party. Several years| thought of it all, and answered
ago he won a scholarship for sIng- | wittily enough, “What do you mean,
ing at Sydney Conservatorium which | the play, or dramatics in general ?
he had for two years. Much of his/ There’s no tripping up of Joanie
spare ume is spent at the organ, | Blackwood,” she went on to say,
and he receives as many singing en- “you’ve got to be more explicit.’
gagements ae nany of the profes- Obviously, since there was no persional musicians of Sydney. His | centage in continuing in this line of
favorite composers are Bach, Cesar endeavour, we shifted our tactics.
Frank, and Brahms. He 1S a meM~| So we asked her with a great deal
ber of a quartette which has special-| of shyness to tell us something of
ized in English Madrigals. her life, which we felt must have

His favorite out-door exercises | been very exciting indeed.
are swimming, football and tennis; | Blackwood thought otherwise.
his style of oratory is usually re-| “There’s not must to tell,” she restrained, but he has a neat turn of plied, stifling a yawn. “I was born,
humor at the right time. | like most other people, and like most

He has taken a very active part! other people, I thought I drew my
in debating ever since he left the! first breath under the shade of the
North Sydney High School, where | old gooseberry bush. I went to
where I was quickly recognized as a genius, although I’ve no
idea why. I ran away from home at
| the age of ten, and joined the Foreign Legion, disguished as the whirling dervish, at the age of twelve.
When I became fourteen, I turned
Mohammedan, married my first husband, the Sultan of Arabia, and
| published my memoirs. JI escaped
|from my husband’s harem half a
year later, and returned to America
by camel, boat, train, and plane.
There I decided to launch upon a
stage career, and secured the lead in
my first play, “Mariposa Bung”.
Many people have formed the impression that I am ruthless, but how
else could I secure the lead in
Wednesday night’s play, unless I
persuaded Miss MacQuarrie that the
part was too difficult for her, that
it was not her type anyway, and
that she had to study sometime, or
what would the folks home say ?”

Miss Blackwood concluded her remarks with a happy smile of
reminiscence, and regretted that she
could tell us nothing that might
have better news value. “However,”
she added as an afterthought, “if
you had a gossip column in your rag,
pardon me, paper, I think I could
furnish you with some quite interesting data. For instance, do you know

(Continued on page 3)

 

“Dirk and

“Cah
 

REPORTER BACK STAGE

In an attempt to introduce to its
prospective audience some of the
leading lights of the Glee Club Production on next Wednesday night,
the following exclusive interviews
were obtained for the readers (or
reader) of the Gazette,

Glamourous Joan Blackwood, who

 

 

Miss

 

years. At Sydney he has been on
the Debates Committee for three
years, and has been one of the leading Union Night Speakers, culminating his debating activity by being
a member of the team which won
the contest between the six universities of Australia.

 

Ureau

Aids Students

The Students’ Employment Bur
Employers send in

These application forms may |

Gym by any student.
Although the Bureau has been

 

able to fill any vacancies
waiting lists of students,

BUREAU AIDS STUDENTS
(Continued on page 4)

 
    

 

 

 

 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   

 

Founded 1869. “The Oldest College Paper in America”

 

B-5033
B-5191
H-5152

Editor: BERNARD GRAHAM 
News Editor: WALTER MURPHY
Asst. News Editor: BARBARA MURRAY
Sports Editor: DOUGLAS LYALL - B-2607
Business Manager: SIDNEY A. GILLIES B-5487

Associates: Henry Reardon, Carol MacKenzie, Rita Harrison,
Jackie Cahan, Caroline Young.

MR. MOWERS’ RESIGNATION

If in some smothering dreams, you too could pace
Behind the wagon that we flung him in...

If you could hear, at every jolt, the blood

Come gargling from the froth-corrupted lungs ...
My friend, you would not tell with such high zest
To children ardent for some desperate glory,

The old lie: Dulce et decorum est

Pro patria mori.

—WILFRED OWEN.

When President Stanley addressed the University at the
beginning of this term he pointed out the presence of grave
danger to freedom of thought and expression in Canada, and
in Canadian universities. The resignation of Cleo Mowers,
editor of the Shéaf-at the University of Saskatchewan, brings
‘this danger clearly before us.

We admired his Remembrance Day Issue when we first
“saw it, and we congratulate him on it. That it raised a storm
-of protests is not surprising; rather, it would have been surprising had it been otherwise. If it is difficult to find evidence
‘that man himself has changed in over two thousand years, it
ds not to be expected that he would seem to have changed in
‘twenty years.

We must confess that we agreed almost completely with
tthe ideas Mowers expressed in his own editorial on November
10th. The other contributors were not confined to one school
of thought; the opinions of President Thomson and of a C. O.
T. C. lieutenant found prominent positions on the front page.
The many quotations were pertinent and seem to have been
selected because of their relevance and excellence. It seems to
us that the critics, as represented by som of the letter-writers
in the next issue of the Sheaf, revealed but little tolerance;
did not appreciate the presentation of ‘acceptable’ opinions;
resented the expression of opinions, ideas, and attitudes they
themselves did not share; and felt that November 11 should
give rise only to an ineffectual type of remembering which
shows that one learned but little from experience and which
reveals no sense of responsibility in the light of dangers of
contemporary history.

As President Thomson wrote: “Every student group that

meets to study international affairs is a direct result of the

‘experiences of the war years.” And if this study, along with
that of history, makes it strikingly clear that people were deceived as to the causes, and the issues at stake in 1914, and if
it seems tragically certain that present day students can and
will be almost as widely and as easily deceived, and if one has
any affection for his contemporaries and any appreciation of
their worth, and if he realizes that the loss of such people in
“war robbs a nation of her most promising leaders for many
"years, surely one is morally bound to do all in his power to
present war as it really is, to remove the smoke screen with
‘which propaganda conceals reality, to lessen, in some small

degree, the danger of a nation’s finest sons hurling themselves

uselessly into oblivion.

; While Remembrance Day is observed, and rightly, in
memory of those who served and died in the Great War, yet
there does not seem to be any better time for recalling to
mind what gives rise to war, how it is conducted, and what are
its outcomes.

It does not seem to us that Mr. Mowers’ judgment was
faulty when he selected the material for the Remembrance
Day Issue, nor when he championed the cause of a professor
whose right to freedom of speech was being challenged;
rather, it seems to us that Mr. Mowers’ judgment was excellent.

That President James S. Thomson objected to the manner
in which Mr. Mowers conducted the Sheaf is clear—if one may
may judge from reports. It is also clear that some students
objected. But many students approved of Mr. Mowers and
supported him, as is shown by the letters in the Sheaf of
November 18, and by the wide support of the petition demanding a plebiscite. The evidence that is available suggests very
strongly that Mr. Mowers was not removed from office for incompetence, betrayal of confidence, or faulty judgment, but
‘because his opinions met with some disapproval, because pressure was applied by the administration, and because Mr.
Armour, president of the Students’ Representative Council dis‘torted the issue, by threatening to resign if Mr. Mowers’ resignation were not demanded.

We believe Mr. Mowers performed a real service by

demonstrating that adequate remembrance involves much more
than respectful recollection, by presenting and accentuating an
issue that demands serious thought, and supplementing that
presentation with material for that thought, by jolting students and rousing them to writing letters to the editor, by
being forced to resign and so demonstrating the dangerous
position in Canadian universities of freedom and daring
thought. Prophets have never been acceptable, and realists
find their very existence resented by those who have an emotional attachment to the unreal.
It may be that, as German officials have announced that
their domestic conduct (i.e., treatment of Jews,) is not the
business of other nations, so some people at the University of
Saskatchewan will say this is none of our business. But it is
our business. If war came there are those who would demand
that students should make it their business. Certainly the
‘serious and anxious consideration of the problem is the business of every Canadian student, and every threat, not to incompetence and irresponsibility, but to the expression of daring thought and serious opinion, to freedom in our universities
as the business of every student across the whole Dominion.

his

eee she views expressed in any column of The Gazette are those of the author; it cannot be
_--—s assumed that they represent the opinion of the student body.
ao, Printed by McCurdy Printing Co., Ltd., Argyle St. a
eee GAZETTE STAFF

resignation in protest over the treatment of Mr. Mowers.

We congratulate Fred McNeil on his firm stand in offering

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

ALHOUSIE
IGEST

AS SHE IS SPOKE:

Many English pronunciations puzzle Canadians visiting over there
across the water. Perhaps the most
confusing is “Chumley” for Cholmondeley. Others that confuse are
“Walgrave” for Waldegrave, “Mills”
for Milnes, “Beeton” for Bethune,
“Broom” for Bougham, “Bo’clair”
for Beauclerk,’ and ‘“Abergenny”
for Abergavenney. Maybe we don’t
speak “English” after all.

x
ISSAT ALL?

Paderewski relates this one on
himself. The world’s greatest pianist was playing at a Madison Square
Garden benefit a few years ago.
Near him was a door, at which two
policemen were guards.

One of the cops stuck his head
through the door. The other flatfoot, who figured it was another
vaudeville show, asked:
goin’ on?”

“Nothin,.” was the retort; “just a
guy playin’ pianner.”

* * *

HOW ABOUT IT?

It’s about time for some of the
men-about-town to revive the grand
old walking-stick habit. After all,
the cane was never a symbol of
wealth. Some of the worst broke
men carried them. Perhaps it gave
that feeling of nonchalance that the
cigarette is supposed to give now.
It was a pleasant little ringledingle, a gesture that somehow ballooned one’s self-respect and certainly did no harm.

* *

KISSER NUMBER ONE:

Do you remember the _ kissing
burglar of Paris in 1927 and 1928?
We guess you don’t. Well, he was
a handsome dog who made love to
the ladies, then cleaned them of
coin, ete. As soon as they could,
the women called the press to get
their kissers in the paper, and pret- |
ty soon half the romantic, sappy
wives of Paris were looking under
their beds for yeggs, and bursting
into tears when there were none
there. Come to think of it, we don’t
think there was ever a “kissing
burglar” on Studley. Perhaps it’s
not necessary to “steal” kisses today.

*

* %* *

SARTOR:

Read this extract from “Sartor
Resartus” and enjoy some good
English. Carlyle might have been
describing Halifax at night:

“Thousands of two-legged animals
without feathers lie around us, in
horizontal positions; their heads all
in night-caps, and full of the foolishest dreams.

“Riot cries aloud, and staggers
and swaggers in his rank dens of
shame; and the mother, with stream- |
ing hair, kneels over her pallid, dying infant, whose cracked lips only
her tears now moisten; all these
heaped and huddled together, with
nothing but a little carpentry and
masonry between them; crammed in,
like salted fish, in their barrel; or
weltering, shall I say, like an Egyptian pitcher of tamed vipers, each
struggling to get its head above the
OePE. yc) ei?

 

* * *

FRIENDS:

One modern definition of a friend
which we like is: “One whose toes
you tramp om when you’re climbing,
and whose shoulders support you
when you're slipping.’’ And in Dalhousie, as in any university, it
would be well for all those who go
after prizes «to remember that
“you're beat, if you don’t beat the
other guy to it.”

* ak ok
CHINESE THOUGHT:

Confucius, ancient Chinese philosopher, once said: “The princely man
is one who knows neither grief nor
fear.”

That princely type is very uncommon today; perhaps Mussolini
would answer the description, although his methods would amaze
Confucius.

Confucius spoke of the nine points
of behavior; some of which might
surprise a good Rotarian:

“To hear distinctly, be kindly in
looks, respectful in demeanor, conscientious in speech, earnest in affairs; in doubt, careful to inquire;
in anger, thinking of the consequences; when offered an opportunity for gain, thinking only of his
duty.”

 

~ Obiter

A medico friend of mine told me
the other day that one of the great
problems facing the medical profession in its efforts to wipe out syphilis is the social stigma attached to
the word, as well as to the disease
itself. Apparently the word is not
mentioned in the best of society.
My friend would like to see it become a “parlour company” word.

The difficulty in writing about
syphilis is the danger of censorship.
Out west, in British Columbia, the
University film society has to struggle against censorship of its films.
In Saskatchewan the editor of the
“Sheaf” was dislodged from his position because he called someone a
dupe. I am told that even the C.B.C.
refused to broadcast a series of programs tending to educate the public
along anti-syphilitic lines. Itis hard
to believe, and I have no way of
checking it as accurate information.

“What’s| Perhaps our right to freedom of

speech and to mould public opinion
is in great danger.

I can easily see the obstacles the
poor doctors have to surmount.
Imagine having to fight such organizations as they are today faced
with before making even so much
as an accurate diagnosis.

Of course the difficulty in the
present case is the question of
morals. You may not realize it, but
syphilis is a form of death (i.e, the
wages of sin). And obviously one
cannot allow doctors to cure people
of such a disease innocently received. Perhaps the legal doctrine
of bona fide purchaser for value
without notice ought to apply; I
don’t know. In any event we ought
to help the poor doctors to remove
the fear of social ostracism.

Of course they know all about it,
and one of them tells me that the
two things a medical student at
Dalhousie really learns something
about are tuberculosis and syphilis.
Apparently then our medical faculty
has no great objection to trying the
cure on others, and maybe our cooperation would not be an unwelcome ally in the fight.

Like sex, it can of course be oyerdone, as sex is in some cases, which
is a real danger. Perhaps a university is a guardian of the public
morals in a more progressive sense
than is generally believed, and can
educate rationally rather than by
mass hysteria. It is not a new
problem exactly, because they have
managed very nicely in the Scandinavian countries, but we move
slowly over here if we move at all.

* * *

CIVILIZATION

I was interested in seeing a news
reel about Palestine last week at a
local theatre. I had always pictured
that country as one not particularly
civilized, at least judging from mod
'ern standards. It was very reminis
cent of the Bible pictures we used

_to see in Sunday School, with the

addition of clear and definite evidence of the progress of civiliza
'tion. This was what I was pleased

to see. You know they are no longer fighting over there with the
primitive sling that David used.

The foreground of the scene I
saw last week was comfortably filled
with British soldiers carrying very
up-to-date rifles. You can do so
much more to advance civilization
with the equipment of the modern
soldier than you used to do with
ancient instruments.

In much the same _ progressive
manner civilization marches on in
China, Spain and Ethiopia (To memtion only a few of the settings.)

Why then, dear reader, do we offer any resistance to the doctors
who wish to carry on their fight,
too? True, they are not quite so
gory in their attack, but it is well
known that the latest styles in warfare are likewise designated “bloodless” by the conquering hero as he
proudly marches in with his soldiers! If only some of these fellows had played with tin soldiers in
their nursery instead of waiting until they grew up and played on such
a dangerous scale.

J. B. M.

 

His five important qualities are:

“Self-respect, magnanimity, sincerity, earnestness, benevolence.”
“Show self-respect, and others will
respect you,” he says. “Be magnanimous, and you will win all hearts,”
ete.

November 25, 1938

 

“The purest form
in which tobacco
can be smoked.”

 

Sa

| CIGARETTES

 

SEE
NEXT WEEK’S ISSUE

FALL SHOES

Perfectly Fitted

Our staff, well trained in the
art of fitting shoes to the
most hard-to-fit foot, is prepared to serve you. Equipped
with “ Foot-ray” apparatus,

|

FOR

Particulars of Reduced

STUDENT
FARES

FOR

Christmas and
New Year’s

you can see for yourself the
exact form of your foot and

thus, the type of shoe you
require.

Consult Us Today!
Wallace Bros.
Limited
“Specialists in Fitting”
415 BARRINGTON STREET

 

 

Unusual.
Christmas Cards

They cost no more than
ordinary Cards

ee

L. T. Connolly

SPRING GARDEN ROAD
Opposite Tech College

TO

BOSTON,MASS.

Generous Return Limit.

 

Dominion Atlantic
Railway

413 BARRINGTON STREET

 

 

 

 

  
    

 

MACLEOD, BALCOM, LIMITED
DRUGGGISTS

Halifax, Sheet Harbour and Kentville, N. S.

 

 

 

Farmers’ Ice Cream

IS OF OUTSTANDING QUALITY
&

“Taste the difference”

 

FARMERS’ LIMITED Halifax |

 

 

 

     
     
     
 

 

   

ee

STUDENTS DESIRING SPECIAL SIZES IN |

LETTER CASES

can have them made to their own specifications at

KELLYS LTD.

118 Granville Street

 

 

B-6962

 

 
ie eee = rs Ez

   
    

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

CASTING PEARLS?

Oh women can’t make up their minds; We’re in a bit of a row,
A “Suffragette” bewails,
About their vacillating ways
She vehemently rails.

Page Three

   

pus Correspondence
r Dalhousie Gazette:

. Sir,— When I first read
 §uffragette’s letter to the Editor
. alt Friday, I was tempted to dis- eover him in the flesh, and do some
thing drastic to him.

Advice to the Lovelorn

Dear Miss Spry: to do? I abstain from food for
In fact there may not be a show several days at a time, never go
As things are looking now.” down for breakfast, and seldom for
a dinner, for Ray’s sake, only to have
Dave say how peaked I’m looking
the next time I go out with him.

 

That there was no outburst of indignation on the part of Dalhousie
students, at least, is a direct negation of what are presumably the results of a liberal education.

Yours sincerely,

Many times have I considered
coming to you with my problem,
and I have never had the courage
to write to you before. But now

 
   
  
  
 

“The show is off!” In dismay we cry

If women dally on a point “What of our dollar fee?”

hb] m lexities have reached such

| What of our quibbling men “Ph h ” th phere, BesP Pl tell ot te do. 1? i
Sou ‘ \NTLIM AI e show is on”, ey nex ; ease me what to do. I’m nearly

ce Af eee fourth rea ng =o a MEE RLALAGS Who ask us to a Film Show announce, ¥ Heat my umen serve Mee, 2G distracted with worry, and my

_ that there were several things worth But carmot tell us when? distraction.

Oh, dear Sally Spry!

_ commenting upon. Provision in the
Constitution of the Arts and Science
_ Society for separate election of men
and women to the Students’ Council
is an absurd segregation, as he
says. That is, it is absurd in a uni
versity where there are many

  
   

- women students. Girls are in the
minority here. Thank goodness, they
__ are increasing in number. This provision in the Constitution is a reflection on the intelligence of the
male sex. If they could see university women as they really are,
_ they would realize that men and
women are of the same mentality
(I must remain unbiased in my
opinions.) Instead they appear to
think of them as people with only
the ability and desire to amuse men.
For this reason such a provision
has to be made at Dalhousie to en+ sure more of a balance of thought
sin ‘the student government.
r He said, “The direct influence
_~which they (the girls) exercise on
the affairs on the campus is almost
negligible.” Is he certain he means
this? If so, I disagree. Let me
bring to his attention some of the
things that girls are doing on the
; campus: girls manage their own
sports through D.G.A.C.; Glee Club
4 is supported mainly by girls; girls
£ take a greater interest in the small-. er organizations on the campus,
such as Choral Society and Players’
Guild; girls instituted Open House
‘ at Shirreff Hall. Are not these ex
able to male activities?

He intimated that Council would |

be well rid of the two female members. I object to that, as well as

to his saying that we take no part’

in the discussions. Has he attended
e all the meetings? If not, he should

. do so in future, and listen before
making such rash statements. Because we do not raise our voices,
interrupt those that take the floor,
or start a free-for-all, is no indication that we are entirely worthless.
- “Suffragette” appears to be an

upper classman. In that case, and
in keeping with his assumptions he
no doubt has attended many meetee ings in previous years. Must Coun_  ¢il be identical from one year to
7 the next? Must we mix fights,
and blasphemy with our aguments
D before they meet with his approval ?
~ This year’s group elected by the
De students to govern their affairs.
ny seems to be dealing with those afes fairs quite rationally. There have
been few complaints, if that means
. anything, and with my knowledge
of Dalhousians, it does.

I appreciate his sincerity in the
matter, but I think his views appear to be based on a misconception. For this reason I urge him
and all students at Dalhousie to
take a more active interest in meetings.

Pa oem
™

Yours sincerely,
SHIRLEY KIRKPATRICK.

Editor Dalhousie Gazette:

Dear Sir,—British bombing planes
do not bomb; they are used merely
for scouting purposes; but under
severe provocation they bomb the
countryside. The Eastern mind is
susceptible only to the mailed fist;
(the Abyssinians, according to a
former and more virile British
press, were not considered an Eastern people). British guns are in
Palestine only to promote the cause
of the Prince of Peace. This was the

altruistic propaganda spewed forth
by the British film industry in the
newsreel at the Capitol Theatre last
week-end. The whole mess was
swallowed by the mass of theatregoers, of which Dalhousie students
formed so large a part.

Propaganda is one of the most
subtle influence.in modern life. By
this time we know that imperialism
and Christianity do not mix; that
the one is the direct antithesis of
the other. But oil and imperialism
do mix, providing a highly dangerous combination. The British are in
Palestine to preserve their oil lines,

and not for any altruistic motive.

 

age
e =

2 amples of female initiative compar-|

Editor, Dalhousie Gazette,

Dear Sir,—Many times I have
wondered at peculiar things which
go on at Dalhousie. Never before
now, to my shame be it said, have I
taken typewriter in lap to speak
to other students and the Powers
That Be of my bewilderment in the
hope of enlightenment. I do so at
this time secure in the faith that
understanding shall come. Please,
dear friends and authorities, do not
fail me.

Where is the organ of announcement of things to come, for which
we poor benighted students search
daily in odd, even in the proper,
places, but never find? You will
understand at once that I refer to
that unparalleled publication, The
Dalhousie Bulletin. The exemplary
behaviour of the committiee in
charge of the production of the
Students’ Directory, in bringing out
promptly so magnificent an example
of highly compressed, important,
vital information, puts to shame the
negligence of the Students’ Council
in this matter so near the hearts of
all true Dalhousians. Only two
years old, the Bulletin filled an important chink existing between the
student and the notice boards. Also,
the student reader gained much
knowledge which appeared on no
notice boards. Either a Bulletin
should be produced without delay or
the “Student Body” should be informed of the reasons for its continued absence from the public eye.

Would it be a constructive idea
that the Bulletin be produced only
once a week this year, at least
temporarily, as an experiment? If
this were carried out it would lead
to a sheet having compressed information and high value to the
reader. The change would permit
the reduction of the size of the
honorarium given the editors. ~ It
seems to me, and to those to whom
I have spoken about this question,
a shame that so valuable an institution should be simply shelved and
neglected by our Council. There are
many students who would be happy
to earn, e.g., $20, by editing this
little paper once a week. Weekly
production would cut down expense
on paper and ink also.

Please, dear Ed., might I criticize
your paper just a teeny bit? It
seems odd that a college paper
Should have so little about the
college and its devotees on_ its
pages, particularly its first page.
Those who attend a_ university
should read other papers beside the
college rag. In doing so the normal
student gets more than his fill of
news concerning Mr. Hitler and his
Buddies. Quite saturated with Nazi
data he picks up the college paper,
hoping to get a little in touch with
university affairs. If he is a Dal
student he will be disappointed.
How about a front page that seems
remotely to deal with things Dalhousian ?

In the course of our so-called college education most of us take one
or two, perhaps more, English
courses. It seems to me and, I
think, to most of the people among
whom I circulate, (and some of them
are quite nice people) that quotations from leading authors of some
centuries ago are out of place in a
college paper, which should purport
to distribute college news, gossip,
and scandal, whether or not they are
interpreted for infant consumption
by the nice kind contributor. I do
not insinuate, of course, that it is
not fearfully interesting to every
one of us to hear that Mr. Bacon,
who lived many years ago, would not
have liked to see us cramming for
exams., but then how many of us
enjoy that miserable two weeks
which is now upon us, any way?
We really wouldn’t do it if it weren’t
absolutely necessary.

Doubtless the tone of all Dalhousie
is raised by the present ultraintellectual university publication
which we may now proudly exhibit,
but might it not be well to draw the
line before our paper begins to look
like the proud attempts of the

ee ——_—_—_— Ooo
ee Ov"

“Friday,

month—
No, the twenty-fourth we guess—
Perhaps it will be later still—
It’s in the Gym—O yes!”

the eighteenth of the

“The show? we’ll tell you later on
We do not know as yet—
‘Pearls of the Crown’ we think it is
If censor’s fees are met.”

“No, it won’t be ‘Pearls of the
Crown’

“You'll see what you will see.”

“The show is off—the show is on—

It’s on! it’s off!! it’s on!!!”

This song we hear morn, noon and
night

From Jim and George and John”.

We pay the fee—we see the show

With minds too much distraught—

So women can’t make up their
minds ? ?

The weaker sex??? What rot!!!

 

 

OUR HATTIE

By PATTER

 

“Another week has passed along
Med. Ball a success worth song
Exams. are coming in a throng
Sure to get my Latin wrong,”
Sings Hattie.

The Med. Ball was indeed a success according to Hattie. It seems
she galloped up to a fellow Frosh
and bribed him into taking her to
the party by asking the goop to the
Delta Gamma. (Hurray for Sadie
Hawkins we cry.)

At the famous Ball Hattie says
the boys got frisky and started to
roll a table top around. Someone’s
sweetie broke up the gang by reclaiming her beau. So little Johnny
Somebody sang out “Can you come
out and play in a while, Bud?”
(Bud being a nom-de-plume for
Smith, Jones or Kerr). We wonder.
At any rate Hattie tittered with the
crowd and raced to the telephone to
tell us.

Hattie is sick about the Frosh
Show being stymied like that. She
says she has to study now, and so
do 880 other students. We found
she was only taking two subjects.

N.B. In future Hattie would like
to be known as Hattie Hawkins!

FILTER

(It soaks up dirt)

 

The firm intentions to study of a
philosophy student at the Hall came
to nothing when the music began on
Wednesday night. May we Pat
Wilmer on the back?

 

The Delta Gamma Dance proved
that Inez’s trucking doesn’t depend
for inspiration on a nimble-footed
News-Editor.

 

The Glee Club have had no difficulties this year in getting a stage
crew. It seems that a new office has
been built off-stage.

 

Announcement: There’s no hard
feeling between Ruth MacQuarrie
and Joan Blackwood.

 

Did Alex Hart pay his dues to
Class ’39?

 

A Fire Prevention Week (?) has
been announced in the Gym and a
duplicate key of the Glee Club has
been asked for.

 

Sometimes heart trouble brings
George Hagen to a dance.

 

It takes an Exchange student to
give us the correct definition of a
mysogonist .. . one who accepts an
invitation to a Shirreff Hall Dance.

 

“Love Virtue, she alone is free.”

 

pupils of Grade 5 of a girls school
at pseudo-intellectualism ?

Congratulations to Sally Spry and
Our Hattie for providing some
Bright Spots.

I will close by saying that I am
enthusiastically in favour of anything and everything that is good at
Dalhousie, (in case you wondered).

Affectionately yours,
SUFFERER.

:

 

 

Pine Hill Billets

Which Hiller, seated with a companion in one of the darker recesses of the Capitol Theatre last Saturday night, was heard to mutter
to his G-friend: “The movies have
certainly solved the problem of perPET-ual emotion, dear”?

 

* ae ok
Dr. Langford of Toronto, who has
been lecturing for the past week on
work in the Sunday School, remarked that it would be wise to enlist
the services of an _ outstanding
young lady of the community; to
which Burke, the Northern Miner,
replied: “Well, sir, it seems to me
that it would be better to marry
one.” Prospective Sunday School
workers please remember Charlie’s
phone number.
x Ae

Curiosity, which was fatal to the
feline, prompts us to inquire:

A. If anyone reads this pillar of
the Hillers.

B. If so, why?

C. Who priced the engagement
rings at Birks’ last week?

D. Why Engineers think they’re
bad when they say “hell”?

E. Who is- Corky? Perhaps we
haven’t Doug. up enough info.

 

REPORTER BACK STAGE
(Continued from page one)
Mary Hayman? Well, she and =

We interrupted Miss Blackwood rather abruptly and moved on to our
next victim, who was none other
than William “Jake” Stevens, he
who plays the blood and thunder
role of Captain Sol Bung, Joan
Blackwood’s father.

Bill in the throes of production is
not the charming person he usually
is under more normal conditions.
Perhaps, it’s just that he is living
his role. At any rate, when we
asked him if he had a singing part
in “Mariposa Bung”, he only glared.
Which didn’t help make convyersation. Then we asked him if he lived
for Dramatics alone. Bill glared at
us again. Not to be daunted, we
asked him if he thought Glee Club
was as good now as it was in the
good old days. It was at that point
that we were thrown out of the Glee
Club Room, practically into the arms
of the curly haired hero of the play,
Johnny Morrison, blond president of
the Glee Club.

Johnny said that he was enjoying
his part immensely.
continued, with his characteristic
air of insouciance, as he took us by
the arm and lead us back to the
sanctum sanctorum, “I am the hero
type, so why shouldn’t I feel at home
in the character of Bertram Carew,
the brave. Bertram, you _ know,
saves the beautiful Mariposa from
a fate worse than death, and that’s
exactly the sort of thing I’ve always
wanted to do, ever since I started
to read Frank Merriwell at the age
of twelve. Anne always says she
can look after herself, and I don’t
find much other outlet for my natural chivalry among the rest of the
girls on the campus. A good instance
of that is something that happened
right here on this very stage only a
few days ago. You know Mary
Hayman? Well, she and another—”

“To be sure’’, we said hastily, “but
don’t you think that dramatics at
Dalhousie have taken a definite turn
for the worse? In the old days,
every two or three weeks ” But
at that point, the door closed for the
second time in ten minutes, with us
on the outside again.

 

 

 

 

“After all,” he |

can’t you do something for me?

Many of my fellow co-eds have
found your advice helpful concerning
matters of the heart. My trouble is
far worse than any mere affaire d’
amour. It is my figure that is
causing me so much trouble. I have
two very special friends of the
sterner sex. Both of them are darlings and I would not give either of
them up for all the gold in Timbuctoo. All the girls say how lucky
I am, etce., etc., to have two such
devoted swains, but here is the crux
of the matter—the part they cannot
understand. Ray likes to see me
thin. He admires the tall willowy
type of girl, and though he simply
adores me (he told me so at the
Shirreff Hall Formal) I know he
would like me to resemble more
closely his ideal of feminine beauty.
Dave, on the other hand, prefers
girls that are pleasingly plump. In
fact only at the Med. Ball he
whispered in my ear the desire that
I should put on a few more pounds.

I ask you, Miss Spry, what am I

philosophy is suffering in conse
quence.
Sincerely,
Your “Distracted Suppliant”.

 

Dear “Distracted Suppliant”:

In these days of sylph-like forms
and slender silhouettes, to find a
man belonging to the old school is
most unusual—and rather confusing.
However, Sally Spry as always, believes in a compromise. If you are
to retain your devoted swains, you
must also retain an average figure.
Then you can adjust yourself to
whichever man happens to be your
date for the evening. There are
certain garments which will assist
you in this—they are the foundation
of all women’s inherent attractions.

One last word of advice—there are
many things I would sacrifice to
win men’s attentions; principles, ete.
I consider as nothing when a man
is at stake, but there is no man for
whom it is worth missing a good
meal,

Sincerely,

Sally Spry.

New Books

Each month there arrive at Dalhousie about six hundred books,
some of which go into the Dalhousie
Book Club, others to the Patterson
Travelling Library, still others to be
swallowed up in the stacks of the
MacDonald Library. Of the third
group there are many of timely interest to the students which remain
unnoticed for months after their arrival. For this reason the Gazette
proposes to publish at varying times
books that may be of interest.

A number which have arrived
since November 1, are:

Lyons, Eugene—

Assignment in Utopia.
Leakey, Louis S. B.—

Kenya; Contrasts and Problems.
Einstein, Lewis D.—

Divided Loyalties.

Street, A. G.—

Land Everlasting.

Larson, H. M.—

Jay Cooke, Private Banker.
Abbott, Charles C.—

The New York Bond Market,

1920-1930.

Osborn, Loran David—

The Community and Society.
Doob, Leonard W.—

Propaganda.
Van Loon, Hendrik W.—

The Arts of Mankind.
Ford, Ford Madox—

Mightier than the Sword.
Britton, Lionel—

Brain, a Play of the Whole Earth.
Brown, Ivor—

Master Sanguine.
Sigerist, Henry E.—

Socialized Medicine in the Soviet

Union,

Seldes, George—

Freedom of the Press.

 

Buy

    
       
       
 
    

receivers good taste.

 

    
      
         
   

SILK ROBES

     
 
           
     
    

FLANNEL ROBES

 

a Man's Gift

ata Man’
CALL AT COLWELL’S

When you buy gifts for men at this man’s store you
are assured of the personal service and advice of Sales- |
men trained to know what men like best.

A gift from Colwell Brothers is a compliment to the

A GIFT SUGGESTION

Rayon, Satin, Silk and Cashmere, all wool Delaine,
Crepes and Foulards are just a few of the lighter
weights we are now showing. Paisley, Roman stripes,
Plain and Jacquard patterns.

Gowns ready for your selection.

All wool Flannel Robes, smartly tailored in roomy sizes
for comfort, notch or shawl collar, stripes, checks,
tartans or solid colors. Various weights. $5.00 to $18.
Other Robes at $2.95 and up.

All merchandise packed in gift boxes
Take advtange of your credit.

Colwell Brothers Ltd.

THE ENGLISH GIFT SHOP

453-457 BARRINGTON STREET

   

 

s Store

 

A galaxy of colorful
$7.50 to $35.00.

 

 

 

aaa

= — a

 
 
   
 
 
 
   
 
 
   
 
     
 
    

   

: 25, 1869 (thee Grit, teeue).
‘The fi rst issue of our paper has
rec and is now before you. Its|

  

=e + Iiterary sects SnSiate ourselves
ts and the establishment of an organ
ty i: in which free expression can be
given, not only to our own senti| ments, but to those of others who
3 “may interest themselves in our pro, gress and prosperity . . . TheDal- housie College Gazette is i be con- ducted mainly by students, undergraduates and graduates of the
college. Several gentlemen of known
ability, have kindly promised to contribute to its pages, among whom
are Professors Lyall, DeMill, Sir
Wm. Young and Hon. Mr. Howe.
- Our annual subscription has been
fixed at the low price of fifty cents.

  

a

a
ets

ee

 

pet

RS Noy. 29, 1869.

ES I’m sitting in the railroad house
rrr - I’m sitting in the railroad house
}  *  §oon—soon I must depart,

s) . My thoughts are all of you love,
ee As dearest to my heart.

aa My parents wish me to be great

as _ And up in city knowledge;

Li: So I must leave you dear,
kh j To study in a college.

t “But my dishonor blight my name”
{rs _ And all rewards come slow,

ne Ere I forgive you, Mary Ann

ie The loveliest girl I know.

Farewell, a long and last farewell!
es, For you my love will burn

~ Till I come home; of you I ask,
a Be true till I return.

wre Your own Ronald.
ale * P.S.—I would just as soon that you
; would not go out with cousin Jim.

 

   
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
     
    
   
  
   
 
   

Dec. 13, 1869.
' here are sixty-three students at
Dalhousie College this term.

 

November, 1900
pe Gymnastics at Dalhousie is the
subject of much unfavorable com; ment. We pay two dollars a year
_ in gymnasium fees, yet neither the
| —s« gym ~nor the apparatus is fit to be
hy , a ‘used. ‘There is no girl’s gymnasium
ib fe ‘class at all and yet they pay the
| —s-« $2.00 fee. Something should be done
5 ee ae bars: matter,

a4

 

   
  
  

ho i ee) mit Meee is , going Shaan the ‘halls
‘ee te t at debating is going down at Dal{ oe, _housie. We call for an effort from
Pf ae the student body and from the
es Zeealty in this matter. Let everyne co-operate with the officers of
“Sodales” and of the “Arts and

ees: “The ‘Senior Class greatly enjoyed

oh e- its social fun which took the form
vt a of a boat sail last week. After the
; boat sail all had a bean supper on
the wharf and then went to Mr.
Hugh Bell’s house where they spent
a most enjoyable evening.

 

Ls
o

‘November 1920.
Dalhousie rang down the curtain
on the 1920 football season by defeating the Caledonian team on
Saturday by a score of 9-3.
_ Last week we mentioned the
urgent need for a Glee Club. This
need was felt when we went to
ye Acadia and nearly lost the game
: 2 because we had no band. Acadia
___—+ihhad a band that put spirit right in
| __ the Wolfville boys. Let everybody
get behind the Glee Club proposition
and push it.
a. eS ae 1919.

> Prof. St——rt exhibited little
Edgar L. with fatherly pride to

_ the visitor:

“You know every father thinks his
own child the best in the world.
Strange to say ther’re all wrong
- except me.”

 

; November 1930.
_ ~~ ‘The recent football game with
f Caledonia showed that if Dalhousie
was going to produce good rugby
F fifteens she needed a professional
eNre goaeh!

__. The new warden of Shirreff Hall
Pe 2 is Miss Anna McKeen.

Py.

‘ :
! a: :

a a é NOTICES
ee, Meine Guild:

| ag There will be a meeting of Players’
_ Guild in the Murray Homestead, at
3 a 8.00 o’clock, Tuesday night.

Y

 

i
% ve ‘Choral Society:
~ Choral Society will meet in the
~ main entrance to the Gymnasium, at
pees Thursday night.

a a eg en a ee

Girls’ Sports

Montreal Standard Reports on
Sports

Last Monday we watched the
freshman P. T. class going through
its usual drill—and were quite impressed. The new uniforms certainly
make a difference in the appearance
of the girls and also in their interest
in the exercises. Although they may
grumble at compulsory gym classes
we know that there are very few
who do not realize that they are
getting much out of them. This is
shown by the number of upper-classmen who are continuing P. T. from
last year, and also by the fact that
there are some taking them who
came to Dal before the days of
compulsory gym.

We feel that Dalhousie is accomplishing something in these gym
classes and it is nice to know that
she is helping to put into practice
a theory which has been acknowledged by the best educators for
centuries,

This is in line with the growing
interest in physical education in the
Maritimes. The Montreal Standard
has noted it and has sent a reporter
to look into the matter. He was
here on Monday interviewing Miss
Wray and with the help of his
cameramen took pictures of the P.T.
class and also of girls playing golf,
basketball, and badminton.

 

 

Fencing

This year the girls are taking up
fencing under the direction of Mr.
Korning. The class will be held on
Tuesday nights from 8.30 to 9.30
after basketball practice. Mr. Korning has a certain amount of equipment, quite enough with which to
begin, and more will be purchased as
it is needed. The class started
Tuesday, but anyone who would like
to wait until after Christmas to
begin should let Mr. Korning know
so he can plan the class. Any girls
interested are welcome.

 

Dance Club

- One of the winter recreations to
which many have been looking forward is the dance club. Since practically every kind of dancing is
going to be taught, everybody who
likes dancing should want to join.
The types of dancing will be ballroom, tap, folk, national, and barn,
and of course there will be music.
This will be held on Tuesday, at
2%30 (subject to change).

 

Ground Hockey

Edgehill Girls Hockey team invaded Dalhousie last Wednesday and
trounced the home team by a score
of 7-0. Two minutes after the play
began Edgehill sent two fast balls
across the line and in just as many
minutes again scored two more. Dal
settled down and played a defensive
game and the play continued to stay
around the home goal.

In the second half the Edgehill
forward line broke through our defence and made three more goals. It
was the superior team work of the
visiting team which enabled them to
beat Dal.

The outstanding individual players
on the Edgehill team were A. Cole
and M. Tobin, and for Dal, were M.
Manning, M. Wood, and B. Thomas.
This was the last game of the
hockey season for this year.

 

Fence Climbing

We never knew that tennis classes
included fence climbing! One very
cold day the tennis class appeared
in skirts and silk stockings. They
said it was too cold for shorts. It
seems that somebody forgot the key
to the courts and so they had to
climb the fence. This, naturally,
was very hard on the silk stockings
and the one person who didn’t have
on silk stockings was the one who
forgot the key. Isn’t this odd?

aa area nnn eee Eee eee

—_— eS ee

 

LAWYERS MANGLE MEDS

Law won the Interfaculty Football Championship last Saturday by
defeating Medicine 6—8, two tries
to one.

The field was wet and slippery and
the ball became heavy and hard to
handle even before the game started. There was a strong wind blowing up the field, but neither side
took much advantage of it. Neither
team was much superior to the
other, so that the result of the
game depended. on which side made
most of their opportunities.

Throughout the game the play
went from one end of the field to
the other. There was no scoring in
the first half, though Law missed an
easy penalty kick and Babe Stewart
almost made a field goal, but the
ball hit the goal-post and bounded
back into play.

Early in the second half Trites|
opened the scoring for Law on a
pretty piece of following-up. He
broke fast from a scrum on the
five yard line to block Medicine’s
attempted kick to clear, snatched
the ball in the air and fell on it for
a try. Medicine controlled the ball

SHEAF EDITOR
(Continued from page one)
the rich, and the tools of the rich;
and I am mourning for those who
will leave to be killed in the next
war, a fate they fear less than that
of existence in our world.”

Lt. W. H. Baker, of the C.O.T.C.,
said:

“Tomorrow as we remember them,
let us not forget to be grateful to
those who did not return to us; who
gave four years of their lives for us.
They were great men, all of them.”

Cleo Mowers, in an editorial headed “My Contribution”, explained
that he had decided to keep his discussion of war for the Armistice
Issue, and then to make it complete
and to forget about it for the rest
of the year.

He discussed at some length the
questions of falsehood in wartime,
the effect of war on the observation
of moral commandments, the professional soldiers, killing, hate, and
non-violence.

There was a good selection of the
statements of various writers who
had expressed their ideas about war:
Erasmus, Havelock Ellis, Emerson,
Lincoln Stephens and others.

The next issue of the “Sheaf”, on
November 15, contained several letters condemning the editor and his
Remembrance Day Issue in general
and Doug Cherry’s contribution in
particular. One letter-writer spoke
of the fairness with which the material was presented and both sides
of the question were represented.

On Monday afternoon, November
18, Mowers was called to the office
of Professor Thomson, who demanded that the editor “reform” or “resign”.

That evening the Council passed
a vote of censure, and on Wednesday evening asked for Mowers’ resignation. A week later, Jack Lunney, new editor under Mowers, was
made editor.

Mowers, in his statement on Nov.
18, charged the Council with not being truthful when they accused him
of deliberately violating the confidence entrusted to him, and that he
had no adequate warning (as_ the
Council alleged) that his judgment

had previously been considered
faulty.

in the scrum so that Law took uneouts whenever they could. Near the
end of the half Medicine tied the
score when MacCormick fell on a
loose ball for a try.

When the referee called time the
score was still tied at 3 all. The interfaculty manager ruled that the
teams play five more minutes each
way to decide the winner. In the
first overtime period Babe Stewart
got the ball on Medicine’s twentyfive yard line and carried it over for
the winning try.

The game was capably refereed
by Bob Armstrong in the face of
much arguing from both sides.

For the first time in many years
Law were declared interfaculty football champions and the handsome
trophy donated by J. MacG. Stewart
will be moved from the Medical
Library into the Law Library.

Line up of the Law team: F. F.,

Koretsky; % B., Bagg, Collins,
Stewart, Bigelow; % B., Mullane,
Hutton, Lyall; Forwards: Macdon
ald, Hanway, O’Brien, Peake, Kar
rell, Trites, Teasdale.

Pome

“You can’t swim here,” the Sheriff
said

To a lady bathing bare.

She quickly turned, and blushing
said:

“Oh, sir, I do declare!

You should have told me of this law

Ere I removed my dress.”

He looked away, discreetly saying:

“Miss, I must confess

The law’s a kinda funny thing;

It keeps a feller guessin’,

It only says: ‘No swimmin’ here’,

It don’t say: ‘No undressin’!”’

—The Hatchet

NOTICES

Hockey practises: Sunday, 12-1,
Monday, Wednesday, Friday, 6-7.

 

Public Meeting:

On Sunday at 3.30 pm., Mr.
Miller will address a public meeting
at the Y.M.C.A. on “The Situation
in Palestine.”

 

Students’ Council:

Students’ Council will meet Sunday afternoon, at 2.30 o’clock, in the
Men’s Common Room, Arts Building.

 

Newman Club:

There will be a meeting of the
Newman Club on Sunday, November
27, at 11 a.m., in the Men’s Common
Room in the Arts Building.

CHALLENGER

The watch with hands
on time. Its fine movement famous lor long life
and accuracy. Handsome
cases styled to complement smart men and
women.

 

 

Sold and serviced by
Birks from coast to coast.

HENRY BIRKS AND
SONS LIMITED

Diamond Merchants

Halifax, N. S.

 

 

 

GAUVIN AND GENTZEL

Photographers to Dalhousie University

Special Rates to Students — 24 Hour Finishing Service

18 SPRING GARDEN ROAD

WHEN YOU NEED:

DRUGS

MEDICINES

Phone B 6992

PRESCRIPTIONS

OR ANY OTHER DRUG MERCHANDISE
YOU GET BETTER SERVICE AND VALUE

Kinley’s Drug Stores

 

 

nt Relat

 

 Mechole

N. S. Hockey League

The question of whether or ‘not
Dal would enter the N. S. Hockey
League was settled on Sunday, when

the D.A.A.C. sanctioned the Dal

entry.

The League is to open in Halifax |

on Jan. 2nd, with the league cham
pions, New Glasgow, playing Halifax |

Canadiens (last year’s Maritime
Junior Champs.)
Al lHalifax games are going to be

played at the Halifax Arena,

on Monday nights. As the Arena is
centrally located it is hoped that the
students will spport their team by
showing up at their games.
housie’s first home game is to be on
Jan. 9th, when they play Truro, a
team which they were successful in
beating in last year’s playoffs.

N.

Pasi 2—Canadiens vs New Glasgow
*“ 4—Truro vs. Canadiens
6—New Glasgow vs Dalhousie
9—Dalhousie vs. Truro

11—Truro vs. Dalhousie

12—New Glasgow vs Canadiens
16—Canadiens vs Dalhousie
18—Truro vs New Glasgow
19—New Glasgow vs Truro
23—Dalhousie vs New Glasgow
25—Truro vs Dalhousie
26—New Glasgow vs Canadiens
30—Canadiens vs Truro

Feb. 1—Truro vs. Canadiens
“  38—New Glasgow vs Dalhousie

6—Dalhousie vs Canadiens

8—Truro vs New Glasgow
9—New Glasgow vs Truro

Playoffs:

Feb. 10—Second-place team vs third
place team.

18—Third-place team vs second
place team

Feb. 15, 17, 29—Dates for final, first
place team having choice.

S. Hockey League Schedule:

ce

“
iti

“

“

 

    
 
 
  

THOMAS WALLACE
SONS and DAUGHTERS
SIGHT SPECIALISTS

Eyes Tested — Glasses Made
“Tf You Want to See Well See Wallace”

Y.M.C. A. BLDG. HALIFAX

    

 

 

MEALS IN A

FRIENDLY
ATMOSPHERE

BLAKELEY’S

The Best Place to Eat
43 SPRING GARDEN ROAD

 

 

on |
Shirley Street, and are to be played|

Dal- |

 

 

 

 

November 25, 1938

BUREAU AIDS STUDENTS
(Continued from page one)

who have already applied without |
using the medium of the Employment Bureau.

Also, often the professors of vari-.
out departments often find positions
for students in their own departments. For instance, Professor
Douglas, who is chairman of the
Board, last summer took about a
dozen Dalhousie boys on a geological expedition to Newfoundland. The
main thing is that it is Dalhousie
students who are filling the positions in most cases, whether they
apply through the Bureau or not.

For those, however, who wish to
make use of its facilities, the Bureau will help to find part-time or
summer employment, and in many
cases, permanent positions. Summer employment would include work
in hotels, tea-rooms, filling-stations,
as tutors, companions, etc.; and for
winter,( such work as snow-shovelling, furnace-tending, etc.

Commerce students would derive

|'most benefit from the Bureau as far

as permanent placement is concerned, for the professional schools
and the education department looked after their own graduates.

In spite of the difficulties mentioned, many employers do send in
requests for people to fill vacancies.
Mrs. MacLean, head of the Bureau,
states that she has received a request from as far away as Trini
dad. So, students, do not forget

that application forms are to be |
had in the Alumni Room at any

time.

Intercollegiate Hockey:

At the present time plans are
underway to form an Intercollegiate
Hockey league, that would consist of
teams representing Dal, King’s, St.
Mary’s, and Tech.

In the event of this league falling
through it is planned to play exhibition Intercollegiate games, with Mt.
A., Acadia, and St Mary’s—in order
that anybody elegible to play
hockey in the college will have his
chance and not be hampered in any
way by Dal’s entry in the, N. S.
League.

With this in mind let everybody
that feels he can play hockey show
up to practice. If there is any hope
of you making either the N.S.
League or the Intercollegiate team
you'll be kept on the list. If your
case is hopeless for the time being
you'll be shipped back to Interfaculty for seasoning.

 

  
   
       
    
  
  
   
  
  
   
    
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
     
       
      
     
   
   
   
  

 

lA Good Place to Stop |
| for |
Sports Supplies

J Honey,

_ 456-460 Barrington St.

 

  

DOUBLE
DELIGHT

finest roasted filberts
Jersey Milk Chocolate

A TREAT — ANYTIME

C.3713R
