 

Fi

 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  

 

thing less effeminate:

VOL. LXXI

‘DAL DEFEATED

 

ne ae

Glee ‘Gb Tackles Willie

 

 

If you have visualized yourself as
a Viola “of many accounted beautiful” an Olivia, “addicted to melancholy”, a Maria “as witty a piece of
Eve’s flesh as any “Illyria”, you may
be able to give vent to your fancies
on the stage of the Dalhousie Glee
Cluz, when it presents Shakespeare’s
“Twelfth Night” in February. Or
you may picture yourself as someas Orsino,
Duke of Illyria, as Malvolio, Sir
Andrew Aguecheek, or Sir Toby
Belch. The five-act comedy of
‘comedies will give scope for every

One of the most ambitious undertakings of the Glee Club this will
probably be presented the latter
part of February. Casting will begin in about one week and those
whom the executive expect to try
‘out for parts will be Joan Black
__ wood, Ruth MacQuarrie, Betty Pear
son, Mary Hayman, Jack Arnell,
¥V alter Murphy, | Bill Stevens, Henry
eardon and Johnny Morrison. Once
ng ie done the work will,
omn eponaed for a SS

; on noon. aicy 17; in the Pieaioury
_ Theatre for the first student Forum

of the year. Chief business of the

A motion to amend Article 6, Section 6, of the Constitution of the
Student Body as follows:

Clause (a) One member shall be
elected by the votes of the Arts and
Science Society at the Council General Election from two nominees
from the Freshman Class who shall
represent that class in its Sophomore year.

Clause (b) The remaining four
Council members shall be elected
from two groups, each group consisting of at least three and not
more than four nominees selected
by the Arts and Science Society,
one group to consist of girls and
one to consist of boys. These shall
be voted on in separate groups at
the Council General Elections. Two
representatives are to be elected
from each group.

NOTICES! ;
Delta Gamma Open House will be
held at Shirreff Hall on Saturday
vening, January 14th.

 

Delta Gamma meeting at Shirreff
Hall to be held Thursday evening.
Debating trials and proposed amendments re debating will be the chief
business.

 

The class picture of all who intend or hope to graduate with class
’40 will be taken for the Year Book
on Tuesday next at twelve in the
gymnasium—before the Student
Forum. A large turn-out is expected.

 

HEAR YE! HEAR YE!

In an announcement made yesterday, George Hagen, chairman of the
newly-appointed -Student Gymnasium and Schedule Committee, stated
that all ares : activities to be held
in the gymnasium must be arranged

     

ena
*

ie um of this com
| Da‘housie students,

Powers Break Faith

Zlatko Balokovic, the Yugo-Slav
violinist who gave a program in
the Dalhousie Gym last week is
more than an excellent musician.
Being interested in politics he has
kept his eyes open during various
trips in all parts of the world. Last
Monday night he spoke on current
affairs at the Halifax Conservatory
of Music. He expressed great admiration for the ability and the high
ideals of many British government
officials whom he has met throughout the Empire. Many of these, he
thinks, are exceptionally wise and
far-seeing men. To the statesmen
of England, however, this admiration
cannot be extended. They have been
pursuing these past few years, a
policy which is too narrow, too little concerned with international justice, and too self-seeking.

At the time of the seizure of
Ethiopia the great democracies betrayed the smaller countries who
were willing to keep their promises.
Yugo-Slavia, despite the fact that
the greater part of her trade was
with Italy, expressed her willing
The great powers, however, did
not keep faith, nor has this betrayal
been justified by any improvement in
international affairs, It has instead
brought us to the place where: no
country can trust another. It is the
continuation of this policy by the
great powers that has _ brought
about the dismemberment of Czechoslovakia, and it will cause the same
result in other small European
States.

In Spain outside factions are making profit from a fratricidal struggle which would long ago have been
settled if outside interests had not
been so strong. The democracies sit
back and let their manufacturers
send great shipments to Franco.
“The democracies have been helping
the dictators to sit on the saddle, and
I think it is high time they should
sit on a bucking bronco without a
saddle.” As a member of a small
country that for centuries has been
fighting for its freedom, Mr. Balokovie said that he feels these things
more keenly. His people have shown
that they are willing again to pay

(Continued on page four)

Cost ef Supps Too High

Supplementary examinations — a
subject of prime interest to some
at least—was
raised for discussion at last Sunday’s
meeting of the Students Council. It
was pointed out that the price of
supps for Dalhousie students is exorbitant in comparison with that of
other universities. Against this was
the argument that the higher the
orice of such examinations the lower
the number of failures.

This being the case there is a
growing group of students who wish
to know to what use the twelve or
fifteen dollars is put which is paid

|for each exam. The general opinion

is that it should be used to benefit
the students: to form a scholarship
fund, to improve gymnasium equipment, or similar uses. To determine
the reason for the high cost of such
exams, Don Storey, Law Society representative of the Council, was appointed a committee of one to investigate the matter with officials.

a

ness to oppose Italy’s aggression.| ~~

rr SSS

  

Students Will

Petition Commons

 

Within the past four weeks uni- |

versity students across the Dominion |
| intercollegiate

have arrayed themselves as one of
the largest petitioning bodies to
storm the fortresses of the Canadian
Parliament in preparation for the
presentation of Paul Martin’s Scholarship bill in February.

Dalhousie is participating in this,

and a committee of which Jim Milner | ** '
‘discuss for the negative.

is chairman was this week appointed
to conduct the local campaign.

This is undertaken for such obvious reasons as_ the
promising students, through lack of
resources, are barred from attendance at universities. Many students
ruin their health by working their
way through college. In a truly
democratic country education facilities should be open to every student.

The aim of the Canadian students
is to obtain 1000 scholarships of
$500.00 each for undergraduates.
According to Mr. Paul Martin, M.P.,
for Essex East, Canada is in almost
the lowest bracket for countries
giving scholarships to needy students. In Great Britain 46 percent
of the students receiving university

“(Continued on page four)

Co-eds: Debs Or . . . +

 

 

HALIFAX, JANUARY 13, 1939

EV PIERS NEW COACH

‘Co-eds and Morals,

 

 

Dalhousie giris will discuss two
interesting prob'ems when next
Thursday evening the trials for the
team are held
Stirreff Hall. “Resolved that modern literature shows a decline in public morals” will be the subject that
Betty Pearson, Lily Hirsch and
Edna Schwartz will uphold for the

| affirmative, and Jacqui Cahan, Doro
thy MacKenzie and Mary Dou!l will

The other resolution is of local interest: “Resolved that the Dalhou
; |sie College Courses should be comfollowing: |

pletely elective.” Marion Gaynor,
Rowena Benson and Mardi Prowse
believe that trey should, while Caroline Young, Rita Aronoff, and Irene
Mader will argue that they should
not.

Maureen Allen, Delta Gamma Debating Chairman, will preside over
the debating ceremonies.

The Dalhousie Debating manager
is this year the chairman of the
Maritime Intercollegiate Debating
Society. It is proposed that the
various managers will hold a conference to draw up a debating
schedule and to discuss changes in
the constitution so that two intercollegiate debates a year can be held.

?

Dal students denounce Australian views
in excluslve interview with Gazette reporter

Shortly before Christmas, two
Australian visitors appeared in the
“Lande of Dal.” They promptly
proceeded to win a debate from Dalhousie. But this did not satisfy
them. So, they instigated a violent
discussion on the campus as to coeds’
fashions and their purpose in coming to college. This is what they
said:

“Canadian coeds are slightly coy,
gigglish, and rather more naive in
their outlook than Australian girl
students Girls on the campus form a veritable fashion parade
and are dressed as debutantes rather
than as students.”

For a while it appeared as if the
lawn between the Arts and Science
Buildings would be divided into two
deep trenches, one filled with supporters of the “furriners,”’ and the
other by all the coeds on the campus. (Do you get the point?) But
fortunately for this situation (only),

the exams commenced a few days| teen?’

later and the argument was dropped.
Meanwhile four coeds came out in
big print on the front page of the
Halifax Mail, with a story which
must have made the visitors rock
back on their heels. So a truce was
ealled. But this was only a temporary peace, for no sooner had classes
resumed after Christmas, than the
argument was taken up with renewed vigour.

According:y, your inquiring reporter has determined to make an
honest attempt to settle the argument once and for all.

Let’s see what Bob Maitland has
to say:

“Dalhousie has the lowest beauty
standard of any campus in Canada.
Of course, some of them are very
nice, but most of them are too young
to be going to college. Very few of

them drink, which is dashed annoy
 

 

 

!
|

 

ing. They look like a bunch of Polocks with those bandanas on their
heads. Compared with other universities, coeds at Dalhousie come
here more for academic reasons than
otherwise. They are also too plump;
of the dairy-maid type. I am amazed at the segregation of males and
females in the Library. I would like
to see more opportunity of mixing
with the opposite sex in other places
besides Roy’s Coffee Shop.”

Whew! that was hot! To this add
what Mr. John Windebank of Trail,
British Columbia has said: “ ‘Status
quo’ is quite satisfactory; it’s hard
enough to keep your mind on your
business without distractions of the
Maitland ideal.”

Now let’s see what Mr.
Manuel has to say:

“IT think coeds at Dalhousie are
‘slightly coy and gigglish,’ because
of their extreme youth. What do
you expect from the ‘flighty seven(From all appearance some
of them might have reached seventeen). As regards their dress, the
only objection is the combination of
extreme fashion with those juvenile
‘what-do-you-call-thems’ they put on
their heads and then wear as
scarves.”

And here’s a comment from Dave
Guildford as to girl’s purpose in going to college: “Girls come to col
Graham

lege to get married, except for an

exceptional few ‘career women,’
Most of them come to college to get

|a B.A., preferably male.”

Next, we hear from Gordon Kinley: “I regret the fact that what
the Australians said isn’t true,
meaning that, if what they said
were true the college would be a
much more enjoyable place.”

When Gordon Hennigar was asked
what he thought, he modestly declared, “ I never think.”

| recently
at |

 

 

 

 

 

Classes and Finance
C'ass ’40 will go on reecord as
the initiative in voting

class furds to the Arts and Science

Society, as provided for under the |
constructed constitution.
The matter went
much difficulty at Thursday’s mes

ing which proves that Douglas Me
Kean, President of Class 740
also President of the Arts

ing

politician. At the Pre-Christm
Mr. McKeen said
was the backbone of his society.

Walter Lawson, engineering
dent, was elected future “treasurer”
of the Class of ’40 to replace Jim
Read of Ottawa who has resigned. |

Other business discussed was the |
Junior Prom and an attempt will be}

made to have it on board ship.

The Freshmen meeting at
same
cision about the Arts and Science)
Society after Gordon Ha
presented the question. Discussion

eertred principally about freshmen |

hockey and basketball.

A summary of the situation regarding the treasury of the Arts and
Science Society is as follows: Class
°42 has failed to come to a decision;
C.ass ’41 has voted $25.00 of its
funds to the Society; Class ’40 has
voted all its funds and Class ’39 has
not had a meeting since last spring.

 

Film Society Refuses

tg Sell Single Tickets

Students are reminded that positively no single admissions will be
sold for the presentation of “Dr.
Knock” on January 20th or for the
subsequent performances of the society on February 10th and March
8rd. Students may purchase season
tickets for $1.00 from any member
of the society at any time until
January 20th. No more tickets will
be sold after January 20th.

“Dr. Knock” is a picture that is a
very timely one, considering the demand for state medicine legislation
in certain countries of the world.
The -film treats of a serious subject
in an entertaining and amusing manner. Throughout the play beneath
the satire and comedy’‘runs the main
theme of the vices of commercialized
medicine. It is a picture that will
interest not only medical students
but those in other faculties as well.

The executive of the Society has

been in correspondence recently with| 3

the Secretary of the National Film |
Society in Ottawa. A foundation is
being laid for a bigger and better
organization next year to be formed
with the cooperation of the National
Society with whom the Dalhousie
group shall probably affiliate in the
near future.

Following “Dr. Knock”, “Yellow
Cruise” and a short “Riches of the
Sea” produced by Mr. Courtney of
Halifax will be presented on February 10th. “Riches of the Sea” .was
filmed at St. Margaret’s Bay. It
was judged one the world’s ten best
amateur shorts of 1938 bythe International Amateur Cinema League-of
New York. On March 8rd the picture will probably be “Ein Walzer
von. Strauss

tak- |
their |

through ake

stu- |

the
hour failed to come to a de- |

ser Tad | Mackenzie,
mat ne | Ideson, 2; Anderson, Wall, 2; Smith,

= ———— SC hw eee

 

 

 

” with Bustav Frolich |

——

No. 12

 

Hetil of David Outplay

Tigers, 36 - 23
The Dalhousie basketball team lost

| their first game of the year to the
'touring House of David team by a

‘score of 36 to 23.

The Tigers played a close-checking
'zone defense which the House of

| Davi could not break up so that
ant

and |
Science Socicty would make a goox |

they passed into the corners and out
again until a man was set for
a shot. They controlled the ball

el through their accurate passing and
meeting, it will be remembered, that |

that a treasury |

when they were set they made a

good percentage of their shots.
When the Tigers had possession

| of the ball they were closely mark
'ed man to man and did not really

find themselves in shooting until late
in the game. The House of David
were a much more experienced team
and of greater ability than Dalhousie
in handling the ball and in shooting.
Dalhousie Line-up:
Martin, 8; Vail,
Hart,

MacKimmie,
Chainhouse,

Ts
4;

Hutton, Hutchins.

House of David Line-up:

Peters, 15; Martin, Murphy,
Shields, 4; Mooney, 9.

At the close of the game it was
anrounced that Bev Piers will suceeed Coach Charlie Steers; who is
being transferred from Halifax. For
some years Bounding Bevil has been
famous for bis ability in rugby, basketball, tennis, and badminton. Dal
is indeed fortunate to secure such @
man as coach.

Council Meets

Council met Sunday afternoon for
the first meeting of the Post-Christmas season. Absent were Harry
Smith and Walter Murphy. Business discussed included:

1. Decision to call a meeting of
the Student Body for Tuesday noon
to discuss proposed change in the
Student Body Constitution, brought
up by the acceptance of the Arts
and Science Society Constitution;

2. Passing of Sodales’ budget of
$223.00, after the executive had deducted $82.40, which they had budgeted for the Conference of Maritime University Students, to be held
this winter at St. F. X. University.

8;

 

 

Council thought, however, that if
any group of students showed sufficient interest in the conference,
'that the money would probably be

available to them;

Appointment at long last of
wk Student Gymnasium and Schedule Committee, consisting of Sodales President John Dickey, D. A.
A.C. President Tom Sheehan, Delta
Game President Zilpha Linkletter,
Glee Club President Johnnie Morison, member at large, Irene Pentz,
and Council Representative and
Chairman George Hagen;

4. Underwriting of the basketball
game with the House of David to
the extent of $60.00;

5. Appointment of Don Storey
as a one-man committee to investigate the relatively high charge of
the Supplementary examinations at
this university.

NOTICE
Rev. A. LeDrew Gardner, of St.

and Charlotte Susa, filmed and pro-| James’ Anglican Church, Armdale,

duced in Vienna. It is the story of
the great German Waltz by Johann
Strauss. The dialogue is in German
with sub-title in English.

 

will speak on Thursday, January 19,
at noon in Room 38 of the Arts
Building, on the subject “Religious.
Belief”.

 
   
 

—

sie M acette

[he views expressed in any column of The Gazette are those of the author; it cannot be
assumed that they represent the opinion of the student body.

GAZETTE STAFF =e
Editor: BERNARD GRAHAM - - - - -_ B-5033
News Editor: WALTER MURPHY - - -  §B-§191
Asst. News Editor: BARBARA MURRAY - -_ H-5152
Sports Editor: DOUGLAS LYALL - - - - _ B-2607
Business Manager: SIDNEY A. GILLIES - - _ B-5487
Exchange Editor: JOAN BLACKWOOD - =» §B-9746

 

NATIONAL SCHOLARSHIPS
(Continued)

Last week attention was drawn to the reputation and

“tradition of students, who for centuries have taken a leading

in agitating for progressive—though not always popular
ee We pointed out the antiquity and the contemporary prevalence of the problem of student finance. The
Canadian Student Assembly’s work during the past year, and
the preparations for presenting a petition to Parliament represent a serious attempt on the part of Canadian students to do
something effective about this problem. .

Dalhousie students are urged to give their support to this
movement for “national scholarships by becoming acquainted
with the real need, with the progress made along these lines
in other countries, and with ways and means by which such a
scholarship system could be administered; by assisting with
serious thought, attendance, and sincere discussion, at student
meetings; by acquainting people outside the university with
the nature of the petition, and the soundness and justice of the
request; and by making small financial contributions to help
the committee meet the expenses which of necessity attend
such a campaign.

 

MEDICINE AND ARTS

The Students’ Council has approved the Constitution of
the Arts and Science Society, and arrangements are already
being made to amend the Constitution of the student body
accordingly.

During the past year there has been considerable discussion of the Arts and Science Society and at times it has been
compared with the Medical Society. On such occasions the
organization at Forrest Hall has been alternately envied and
condemned. This is frequently due to misunderstanding and
to failure to realize the situation in Medicine and to see how
it differs from that at Studley. With the advent of a “properly
constituted” Arts and Science Society there is a likelihood,
however undesirable, that these errors will be repeated, either
deliberately, or by accident. ;

Among medical students a feeling and expression of unity
and of mutuality is much more natural, and therefore much
more common than among arts students. The medical students
find themselves brought together in large classes almost daily,
for several years, and many of them even have known one another during their premedical course: arts students meet but
few of their fellows at all frequently or regularly; when they
enter college but few of them know one another, and even in
their final year there are many who do not know one another.
The medical students work harder than most students, and the
stringency of their course demands ability and persistence
above the average: a group which applies itself continuously
to a hard job has a natural sense of unity that no group of
arts students, with their many jobs of greatly varying difficulty, can ever possess. Speaking generally, the medical students have a common life purpose, and this unity of purpose
probably does more than anything else to unify their student
body and give them a sense of mutuality, which arts students
rarely understand and almost never experience.

Granting this unity and mutuality among medical students, it is not difficult to see why one of them would accept
readily the opinion of another, if the former were himself not
qualified to hold an opinion. But there is more than this to be
considered in any explanation of the situation in the medical
school.

The medical students are generally more mature, and experienced, and hence, in a way, more capable than the arts
students. For this reason they command more confidence
among all students than does any other group. But why should
medical students who come from other colleges take a more
prominent part in student activities than those students who
come originally from Studley? (That this is true is commonly
assumed; we are not saying it zs true, but we are trying to
understand how it may have come about, if it is or has been
true.) At other Maritime universities they have no such experienced and older group, and hence the lead must be taken
by the arts students. When a student who has taken a leading part in activities at another university comes to the Dalhousie Medical School he not only has the same preference in
student activities as any other medical student, but he adds to
these his developed interest and his special experience.

When such a group of students forms a society which cultivates a community of interest and purpose which already
exists on a broad, natural foundation, it is of necessity very
different from any society which a heterogeneous, and less experienced group of Arts and Science students could form. To
fail to recognize the natural and inherent difference between
such societies is to show lack of that realism which is essential
to the successful conduct of all human activities of any consequence.

destroyed part of the ceiling. On
the second floor walls were cracked,
and the plumbing was wrecked
throughout the building. First floor
front doors, which were locked at
the time, were blown open, smashing locks and hinges.

Two workmen who were in the
building when the explosion occurred were badly burned, and are
now in Victoria Hospital, Winnipeg.

Table tops, drawers, window
frames, and botanical specimens

(Continued on page four)

Explosion Wrecks
Sci. Bldg. at Man.

Winnipeg, Man., Jan. 12 (C.U.P.)
—Exploding propane gas practically
wrecked the science building of the
University of Manitoba at 8:20
‘Thursday. The explosion apparently
occurred in the Botany Laboratories
on the third floor, and the blast
blew out all windows on that floor,
hurled down partitioning walls, and
F,

 

DALHOUSIE

 

GAZETTE

January 13, 1939

 

ALHOUSIE
IGEST

Once upon a time there was a man
with a glass eye. He was a good
man and studied hard while in college. He was very absent-minded
and very soft-hearted. So he became
a college professor. He was a good
professor even with one eye. One
day he took his eye out to wash it.
It was a blue eye. He scrubbed it
because it was all read. Then, alas,
it fell into the sink and disappeared
down the pipe (this one had no

strainer). He shook his empty head
sadly and said: ‘“Merey; another
pupil lost.”

Moral: If thy right eye offend thee |
remember—it’s better than a glass |
one,

Once upon a time there was a
bright little freshman who didn’t be
 

lieve in good old Santa Claus. When
he went home for the Christmas
vacation his mother asked him what
he wanted Santa Claus to bring him
if he was a good boy. He smiled
with tolerance at his mother (the
sympathetic tolerance displayed by
freshmen who return to see friends
in the old home town after three
months in a university) and said:
“Aw, there ain’t no Santa Claus.
I study Psychology and this explains
that Santa Claus is merely a projection of the human mind .. . the
objectification of a wish-fulfilment.
He’s like the devil. He’s your father.” So the poor little freshmanpsychologist was out of luck this
Christmas.

Moral: Those who drink of knowledge and those who quaff of ocean
water thirst all the more.

 

 

Definition of latest low-neck dress:
a collar worn around the waist.

 

 

Don’t go to college—IF:

You are looking forward to four
years of unrestrained gaiety and
pleasure. The romance of college
life is glorified in novels, movies,
sport pages, and popular traditions
of the day. We often wonder where
Hollywood gets its ideas about college, and how college lads and lassies live and love. If you think that
college is just a dance-floor or a
gridiron then you are in for a highly
developed disillusionment. Hot-cha
collegiate boys are as rare as quarters in the Dalhousie Wurlitzer.

If you like bright lights then bring
your flash light with you because
you won’t find any on most campuses
we’ve seen. If you expect to hear a
softly strummed uke and _ sweet
harmonious voices by an ivy-covered
wall then bring a gramophone and a
few records and sit on the library
steps or go to Blakeley’s flophouse.
College is not an institution built
along the lines of a night club combined with a rest cure program. Ask
the man who goes to one (and then
believe only half of what he tells
you). The highly-scented sheik is)
replaced by the sulphurous student.
Good-time Charley is a movie actor,
and don’t say we didn’t tell you.

In spite of what Hollywood says
when we see a movie version of college life we still think that the real
college heroes and heroines are in
the audience...

 

 

Coeds have come to believe that
the sissy type of male is fast disappearing. Men are standing up for
their rights now but there are still
evidences of feminine tendencies.

Coeds think (on inquiry) that a
man’s hat, if he has a hat, determines his masculinity to a highly
dependable degree. If the hat is
worn on the centre of the head then
this individual is a sissy of the old
school. A hat must be hung on the
head at a rakish angle to create the
impression of extreme masculinity.

The art of shaving must improve.
Coeds say they do not like a “sandpaper” date. It is to be remembered
too, that the last minute dry shave
with a Master shaver merely refines
the texture of the sandpaper. A
man is not a sissy if he shaves every
day, but a perfumed one is, and
especially an over-powdered one.

A man does not have to be a chronic
cigarette smoker but should carry

| thinking German.

| all.

Obiter

 

Last week the President of the
United States made some comments
(as

on the nature of democracy
found in the land to the south)

which could only be interpreted as
of non-demoIt would seem
that Mr. Roosevelt was dissatisfied

scholarly criticisms
cratic governments.

with a somewhat similar effort made
by a Mr. Ickes only a short while
ago. We felt, I fancy, that Mr.
Ickes did not put his case strongly
enough. There is, after all, something to be said for plain speaking,
especially when it is done in the
rather veiled manner adopted by Mr.
Roosevelt. We have here at Dalhousie a situation which pales beside
that in Europe only because here we
at least call it democracy while there
they know not what they do. (Please
do not raise any technical arguments
over a _ definition of democracy.
Even Mr. Roosevelt might be stumped by that.) Our situation is that
students are being fined, not merely
taxed mind you, but fined; they are
being separated from their hard
earned money by fines. Now it is
inherent in all law that a man have
a fair hearing (although at every
conviction there is at least one discontent). However, if we are to
enjoy the benefits of democracy we
must also pay the price, which is, for

want of a better term, known as}

self discipline. If we want a fair
hearing, we must make fair use of
our liberties. You cannot, perhaps,
blame democracy for attempts at
self-preservation, for trying to save
its miserable soul. You may not
have realized it before, but Dalhousie
is one of the cradles of democracy.
(If you do not read its history too
closely.) True, you do have to sport
some Latin before you get a degree,
and it now appears that you can
smoke in the gymnasium only at

| considerable financial risk; but still,

it is nice to think after you crawl
into bed at night, that this is a
democratic institution. True, also,
that this is not the best of all possible worlds (that is just around the
corner, flirting with prosperity), but
it doesn’t take a great imagination
to think of a worse one. Which
isn’t much consolation.

La Liberte

A poet wrote some time ago that |~

if he had freedom in his love, and
if his soul was free, he was about on
a par with the angels in the heavens.
He might have added, if he were not
excused by poetic license, that he
had to have the liberty to publish his
poem before he reached that exalted
state. That I think was one of the
things Mr. Roosevelt had in mind
when he intimated that the good old
Americans would continue to do
their own thinking. He too must
have meant to add “and publishing”.
It seems to me that the right to
think is not an entirely democratic
institution. In fact many
crats, if we are to believe Republicans, do not think often enough.
Moreover, it is difficult to believe
that there is not the occasional
But is there a
publishing German? You don’t hear
of one for any length of time, if at
The real secret about a democracy, then, is that you can publish
anything and get away with it,

| (barring the libel laws) whereas in

non-democracies you publish almost
anything and you are gotten away
with. (I apologize for ending that
sentence in such an ungrammatical
manner.) Recollect for a moment
just what this means. Think of the
privilege you had in English 2 to
say what you wished, and let who
would be clever. Think too of the
privilege of being able for a moment
or two each night to turn the dials
of our radios from the CBC to pick
up a foreign station. Sometimes
that is a very great privilege. And
it involves publication too, legally
speaking. Let us offer a_ silent
prayer for the mute German who
speaks with but one voice, although
that, if we can believe Hitler, is the
voice of God. —J. B. M.

 

them on a date. A pipe is taboo if
it is lit but it is permissible to
munch on one while in conversation.
Don’t ever offer your pipe to a coed.

|

 

 

Demo- | 
 

“I'm getting in shape for a Susie Q”
“Thanks, I'll stick to Sweet Caps.”

SWEET CAPORAL CIGARETTES

“The purest form in which tobacco can be smoked.”

 

MACLEOD, BALCOM, LIMITED
DRUGGGISTS

Halifax, Sheet Harbour and Kentville, N. S.

 

 

BLAKELEY’S

for Lunch
Dinner —
and Confectionery

©

What You Have
Wanted

Now is the time to put
that Christmas money into
a tangible gift before it

Join Your Classmates! slips away.

43 SPRING GARDEN ROAD Birks have many timely

suggestions.

HENRY BIRKS AND
SONS LIMITED

Diamond Merchants

Insist on Getting
Donovan’s Beverages
15 - Different Flavors - 15

W. H. DONOVAN
45 GRANVILLE ST. _B-6821 |!

Halifax, N. S.

 

 

 

 

Infe’s greatest pleasures follow the
sharing of sentiment with others.
Be a winner. Take this tip. When
, wt’s your move in this game of life
a —Say it with Flowers ... from

aE

Blowers St. at Grafton Phone B-7062

 

 

 

January Sales!

For bargains in men’s suits, overcoats, and men’s wear
accessories—call at Colwell’s! You will be pleased

 

with the low prices and fine qualities. Styles, of
course, are up to the minute.

Formal wear always in stock ready for your
selection.

A complete stock of correct dress suits |
| and accessories. |

 

 

The English Shop

453-457 Barrington Street Halifax, N. S.

|
Cobseelt Reade inthe
|

 

 
  
 

- student and instructor alike.

13, 1939

 

English 2 Questioned
Are We Men or Mice?

 

The Editor:

The recent exams, particularly in
English, have aroused considerable
diseussion as to the value of the
present English course. One of the
more serious discussions arises over
the desirability of the present English 2 course.

The opinion is held among many
students, that those desiring to obtain a liberal education and eventually a degree, and who desire no more
than a general knowledge of Eng
lish literature, shou'd not be requir-|_

ed to take the course now offered in
English 2. This does not imply that
students desire to “drop” English 2
because it is too difficult a course or
because it is valueless. To say this
would be both absurd and untrue.
Instead, students claim that the
course now offered in English 2 provides a specialized instruction on the
works of two authors. Many, (I
shall not say “the majority”) in
their effort to obtain a liberal education in English believe that the
course now offered in English 1
could be extended over a two year
period, thus making English 2, which
is a detailed and specific instruction
of Milton and Shakespeare, an optional course.

The advantages of this plan can
be easily seen. The present English
1 course attempts to establish a firm
foundation for further study in English by offering a general account of
English literature together with such
instruction in theme writing and
general composition as is desirable
for proper knowledge of our own
language. Of necessity, the instruction offered in this course must be
very brief, if the class is to cover
the work prescribed for the course.
Without doubt, the present Eng ish
1 course could be extended over a
two year period to the advantage of
To
attempt to obtain a useful knowledge of English litcrature from
*“Bcowulf” to present-day writers in
seven months is well-n’gh impossible. Under the present system, it
may be generally said that a student
enters a course design¢d to give particular attention to two writers,
with a bare, general understanding
of literature at the most. It is admitted that in many cases, a particu
lar study of some branch of a subject may be undertaken without first
obtaining a gonera_ knowledge of the
entire subject. But in this instance,
such a condition is neither a benefit to the student and professor, nor
desirabie,

This opinion has been expressed
with all respect to the present system of instruction, and to the instructors, as oxpressing a belief held
among a great many students. It is
offered in the hope that it may play
some part in enabling students to obtain the greatest amount from their
brief sojourn at Dalhousie.

EDMUND MORRIS.

Editor, Dalhousie Gazette:

Once upon a time Dalhousie was
filled with greatness. Once upon a
time Dalhousie had strong men within her walls. For their amusement
they rolled cannon-balls down the
stairs so that the college thought
the sky was falling and came rushing
out to see. They decided the President needed a cow so they gave him
one. And have you heard about the
time when one bright lad locked an
orchestra in a room during morning
session and told them to play as loud
as they could? He also told them
not to stop playing if anyone came
and yelled at them. Well, they
started to play and made a terrible
din until finally Lord John came
rushing down from his office and,
banging hard on the door, told them
to stop. But they didn’t. Then he
got on a chair and yelled in the
transom at them but still they kept
on playing. It must have been a
great day. Of course the men who
had instituted the idea were hauled
before Lord John, lectured, and
fined. Afterwards they went happily on their way thinking that the
fine was well worth paying because
of the fun they had had.

Today at Dalhousie there is a
different story to tell. The greatest
devilment anyone-can think of nowa-days is smoking on the stage. If
that gives them excitement let them
haye it and let them pay their fines
in the spirit of the old Dalhousians.
But do they? No. They squeal, and
talk, like half-educated demagogues
about their rights.

—H. B.

 

FromOld Gazettes

On the evening of Friday, the 11th
of January, at nine o’clock, four gallons of ether, stored in a sheet iron
container in the stock-room of the
Bio-Chemistry Laboratory, exploded,
bringing down the plaster and
scorching everything inside the room.
The walls were blackened with
smoke and soot; all the windows
were cracked; bottles, chemicals,
books, and apparatus were strewn all
over the place. A calendar hanging
on the wall was burnt to a cinder
and many books were singed. The
explosion was due to strong acid
leaking from a broken bottle on to
unslaked lime stored on the shelf
below.

Joe Matte, famous Upper Canadian coach, has been secured to
coach the Dalhousie senior puck
chasers during their coming winter’s
campaign in the City League.

Who was the _ serious-minded
Shirreff Haller who was overheard
telling the President the other day
her aim in life was the “holy state
of matrimony.”

 

SEE

January, 1917

In a recent issue of the “Gazette”
there appeared a short item concerning the welcome of the Dalhousians
returning from the front. No doubt
there will be many suggestions
brought forward. It has been rumored that a Students’ Building has
been mentioned. At present all Dalhousians are familiar with the “old
homestead” which now bears the
mame of Students’ Building. Let it
be the bud out of which shall blossom the new Students’ Union of
Dalhousie.

Fair Senior (on telephone)—Can
you come over tonight to study
philosophy Mr, C———?

Man of the House—They didn’t
call it philosophy when I was young.

 

January, 1909

Each succeeding year the Delta
Gamma has something original in
| the line of “At Home” ideas. Their
erie Night” of this year was no
exception to the rule.

The Engineering Society held their
usual “At Home” on January 8. In
the Physical Laboratories there was a
fine display of electrical and physical
apparatus ranging from the primitive dynamo and arc-light to the
modern Marconi machine. On third
floor was a miniature bridge and a
fac-smilie of an engineering camp.

 

January, 1899.

One question, the correct solution
of which is of vital importance to
our Alma Mater, is whether it would
be to the best interests of her work
if Dalhousie should become a residential college. Many Canadian
colleges are residential and we would
like to hear what advantages they
think we would be likely to receive
if we were to build residences for
our students.

 

First Freshette: “I’m going to see
the Dal team play the House of
David.”

Second Freshette: “Are those the
ones with the big beards?”

First Freshette: “Yes,”

Second Freshette: “I didn’t know
there were enough of them at Dal
to mae a team. we F. C.

 

Thought: Alone in the moonlight

is more fun if you ain't. —McGill
Daily.

a
ssl Se
SS  —————
—
—

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Werse

Wisdom is a foolish thing that failed me.
Silence and darkness can have my life

And fools may have the

chill of platitudes.

Pale disease, heart’s sorrow, I wish

Your sobbing
That I could shuffle out

my steps in lonely streets

Hearing fiddles play through mist,
Dumb, weak, with wasting sadness

A shroud of tears.

Wild melody of winds
Moan higher

Wisdom is a foolish thing that failed me.
—ABRAHAM A. FISCHER.

READER, BEWARE!

Bessie Jane Smithers was terribly neat,

With spinsterly habits and slender feet.

She lived by herself in a gabled house;
Shivered at spiders and screamed at a mouse!
She petted her parrot and pampered her peke,
Simpered at vicars and drank her tea week.
She gurgled at babies, made soup for the poor,
Locked every window and bolted her door.

She knitted with fervour

and sewed a great deal;

She attended the “kirk” with laudable zeal.

To gossip, alas, she was
But pray don’t think her

gently inclined,
intentions unkind! !

Her house was herself—what more need I say?
Primly Victorian in exemplary array ;

Her health was her mania, her diet was pills;

She suffered from hyponchondriacal ills.

She carried a “gamp”, and fussed with a tonic—
“For my asthma, you know, is dreadfully chronic”.
She spent half her year at sea-side resorts,

Where she dabbled with paints and weather-reports.
Her mind, I must add, was neatly weeded,

Her borders of thought were sparingly seeded.

What mattered it though ?

? Her actions were kind;

She needed no genius, no presence of mind.

She did all the things that ensure life hereafter,
By smiling on virtue and frowning on laughter ;
But yet would I say, “O Reader, beware,

For Bessie Jane Smithers lives everywhere!”

 

Book of Bunk

CHAPTER II

 

1. And 86 it came to pass that
the Might-ee Hand of the Highest
struck Once, nay, Twice, on two
studes of the Lande of Dal and
Much was the talk on the Camp of
Studley. For Many were angered
at the high-handed action of King
Karl and his Minion’s Minute Minion and all believed that the two
studes had rights to demand a
Hearing before the Sen-ate of Wisemen, but K ng Karl decreed Not So.

2. And as an Offer of Friend-ship
to the studes, the Lit-tle Sales-man
re-plen-ished the box of the Whurlit-zer with sev-er-al new Discs from
which issues many times a Day
sweet mu-sic. But All were not
satisfied, though Many were, for the
se-lect-shuns of the Lit-tle Salesman shewed Care. But the studes
must learn to Bear the Lit-tle Salesman, for he is one of the Great and
it is said he plans to buy the Swimming Pool on the Com-mons and
pre-sent it to the Lande of Dal for
a small re-mun-er-a-shun.

|

pd

FILTER

 

Sincere sympathy is extended to
Archie McKenzie in his recent bereavement.

It would seem that once a misogynist, always a misogynist.

Johnny Morrison is taking no
chances. He has given Anne a
radio to amuse her at nights.

Harry is still singing
ever growing ‘young’—er, growing
‘young’—er every day.”

Prof. Jewett: “What do you think,
we) Poy sie B

Miss P.; “Think ?”

Those are our sentiments, too,
baby!!

Where dwells the explanation for
the stardust in Joan Blackwood’s

eyes? It couldn’t be Oakland Road.
Oh, no, no, no!

Zilpha has her doubts about the
goings-on behind the locked door ot
the Glee Club Room. Just imagine.

3. And the Wails of the Few| /Sk! ‘l'sk!

out-clamoured the joy-ful shouts of
the Many as Prince Vince posted
the Record of’ Slotter among the
Studes of the Law. And on the
Record the Year-lings trailed all the

Rest for the B.ue Pen-sel, was
wielded with might against the
Frosh of Law. But lit-tle the

Youngsters car, for they know the
Real Day of Reck-on-ing will come
when the fields grow Green.

4. And Mon-day was Blue in the
Houses of Phidelt and Phikapp, for
in each one of the Brethern had
suffered a Great Loss, but it was
felt that the mat-ter was over and
Dunn with and the Kronicler learned that the Third Day the two
studes from the Camp of Forrest,
Boyd and MacKenzie, were again
seen in con-ver-sa-shun. And all
will agree with the Kronicler that
what is Saint John’s Gain is the
Lande of Dal’s Loss.

5. And much app-lause was
| Showered up-on the Editor of the
Gaz for the se-lect-shun of Jokes
in the past is-sue. But Many criti-cised because the Jokes were

 

 

“Little” by “Little” Jack is mak
ing progress in his extracuricular
activities.

Can it be that Jack Reynolds has
found his “Helen of Troy” at last?

Dalhousie Co-ed theme song for
1939: “Have you forgotten so soon.”

Announcement: Sally is now entitled to Junior leaves. Oh, boy!

Reg Ash: The law exams were an
insult to my intelligence.

Group of law students: What intelligence ?

esses

or-ig-inat-ed in Other Landes and
the Kronicler would but re-mind
that Jokes from the studes of the
Lande of Dal are None, for it seems

that only prac-ti-cal Jokers seek
shelter Here.

And here endeth the

Second
Chapter of the Fifth Book.

 

 

Daring Comment on Snobs
College Types Classified

Page Three

 

    

“You who are ashamed of your art and drama, and “True Detective”
poverty, and blush for your calling,| for the college gossip column.

are a snob; as are you who boast of

your pedigree, or are proud of your
wealth; you who forget your friends,
mainly to follow after those of a

 

 

The “scholastic” snob: the student
who, buried in his books, gazes with
critical eye at the foolish group who
spend their time at the university

higher degree are a snob” said| store, the Glee Club shows, hockey

Thackeray. Since students of today games, and parties.
are society of tomorrow, a university | snob never participates
—that is every university but Dal- curricular activities,

housie—can provide a Vanity Fair
of all the snobs of later life. But
snobs, in a democratic country, are
a disturbance to the body politic and

bring about the discontent which |

leads to social problems. With this

in mind why not begin a “down with |

snobs” college course to eradicate
the following:

The “snob of snobs”, otherwise the
sophomore who has a superior attitude to the freshman.

The “omniscient”? snob: the person
who knows all the answers to the
most troublesome problem. Nothing
fazes him, not even the question of
religion and belief in another world.
He looks with disdain on the poor
stupid fools who express a faith in
anything as old fashioned as religion.
Often a scientist deep in studies of
physical phenomena, he becomes
blatantly atheistical and announces
at every opporttinity: “I am a scientist; I cannot believe in God.” And
with this declaration the “omniscient” snob revels in his position

which he considers has elevated him | she must join another crowd which

above common humanity.

The “intellectual” snob: the person
who prefers to conform to the rules
of a certain critical audience and to
make his tastes subservient to their
choice. He frequently gushes to the
professor “I do so enjoy this class”,

and openly scorns the student who)

dares to say “But what good will
Latin be when I’m a stenographer ?”
The intellectual snob joins the literary society, the art and drama group,
but in discussion rarely commits
himself. It would be dreadful if a
remark, not very intellectual, betrayed him. He is the type who
verbally eschews the comic strips
and criticizes but secretly enjoys the
gossip column of the university
paper. In later life he will substitute a Reading Club for the literary
society, an antiquarian society for

 

The scholastic
in extraand justifies
himself with a “They’ll-be-sorrywhen-the-exams-come” air. In years
to come he is the person of whom
someone will say “But he was a
brilliant graduate. I wonder why he
seems so dull?”

The “executive” snob: the person
who considers that no one is worth
a fig unless, like himself, he holds
a number of campus offices. Dashing hither and yon, from meeting to

'meeting, on the surface this small
town-Mayor-in-embryo bubbles over
with executive ability, while a faith
'ful Friday does the work.

 

The “who is your Father?” snob.
Yes, Becky Sharp still exists and on
being introduced judiciously inquires:
“What school are you from? er
“What is your father’s s profession?”,
“Whom do you know in the city. 7”

The “my crowd is tops” snob:
This is Becky Sharp who believes she
belongs to the best fraternity, goes
to all the parties with the fastest
crowd and the campus hero. This
is Becky Sharp who is a friend until

appears to be the one and only at
the time.

The “collegiately-clad” snob: this
is the boy who studies “Esquire”,
the girl who devours “Vogue” to
find out what the well-dressed college student wears. This is the boy
who two years ago disdained all
those who didn’t wear fedoras, who
today looks down upon all who are
not garbed in green felts. This is
the girl who a short time ago mixed
with only those who wore turbans
and fur-tops, who today will be seen
with the group who don silk scarves
and ski-boots. ae

The “critical” snob: the person who
would dare to write this article and
set up himself, herself or itself as a
judge of his, her or its fellow
collegians,

 

& se se
Pine Hill Billets

The question “Did Condon get
back yet?” was answered by his appearance this week which ended his
four weeks “Christmas” vacation.
He had it “Cumming” to him and
there is no doubt that New Glasgow
has its attraction; but there was so
much to say and do there that Bob
will have to get right down to
another well earned rest in his
dormitory.

 

Several theologs are Pacifists to
the extreme, and think, with Chamberlain and the Herald in terms of
“Peace at any price.” Just what
“any price” signifies is obscure, but
even if it involves the state of marriage, in which many of the noisiest
authorities see nothing peaceful,
they are willing to pay the price.
These theologs evidently anticipate
conscription, which means single
men first, and which probably explains why there has been an increase in the number of engagements
unofficially announced. And this is
probably why other theologs are
frantically combing the “courting
schools” of the city for some cultured
and naive little thing who would be

willing to share a sheltered position
in society.

 

Ken Findlay has given up wimmen, etc., for Greek and Latin. He
no longer believes that varieity is
the “Spicer” of life but is now will-|
ing to content himself with the lot
of the “monogamist”,

 

Ken Archibald was pained to see
the entire furnishings of his room
transplanted to the shower-room and
set up an arrangement far superior
to his own idea of interior decoration. Ken says: “Boy, I’m glad I
found my stuff before the Old Colony feline thought that my bed was

—
Ss
SS

a more comfortable place than the
cold floor of the shower-room.”

tO

 

Inez Smith’s lament: “Why does
Ty ‘Stewie’ (Cliff) Stewart go to
Lunenburg for the week-end: What
have the South Shore girls got that
I ain’t got? Maybe they’ve ‘seen
the light’, or somethin’, or maybe I
ain’t edifyin’ enough.”

 

Ralph Young, Frank Lacey, and
now Ron Ritchie have developed a
Kentville complex. They go there
and not to see the scenery or the
Sanitarium. It is feared that a
severe Freudian repression may follow, if their visits continue.

 

The report (startling if true) that
Clyde Slade “let up” on his studies
one day in December has not yet
been confirmed.

 

Dan Matheson is torn between a
feeling of flattery and a feeling
which all hunted animals have. “I
like Miss Ritchie a little” he says.
“We’re good pals, but why must she
haunt me and stick closer to me
than a bump on my head?” “I’m
bound to weaken sometime”, he continued, as his frame shook.

 

If ink is worth points in exams
then Charlie Burke should have
made about 200 in each paper. But
Prof. “Daddy Brecken’’ doesn’t agree
that 20 pages or more of bunk
makes one eligible for such consideration. Perhaps most profs. and
many students would agree with
“Daddy’s” reproof: “Mr. Burke, you
waste a lot of ink and I waste a lot
of eyesight”.

 

Can it be possible that Sid Wright
and Ken Fraser, the official Pine Hill
bedwreckers, lost their identity and
“wrecked” their own room?

 
    
 
   
  
 

 

ees

ee

 

- Pugilists Prepare

_ lightweight honors last year, is
probably the most scientific man on

_ yietories for Dal already in inter eollegiate competition during the

Se

wk ss '
4 i
& ’ '
i

 

For Big Meet

‘Tf the initial workout of the candidates for the Dal Boxing team is any
indication of what is to follow, this
year’s team should eclipse last year’s
contingent and bring the Intercollegiate Boxing Championships
back to Dalhousie. This year’s team,
it is hoped by Manager Abe Becker,
will be represented in every division
from flyweight to heavyweight.

Although the squad has been considerably weakened by the loss of
Earl McDonald, Maritime Intercollegiate Flyweight Champion, and
Ralph Lewis, one of the best middleweights seen around these parts
for a long time, it is strengthened
by the return of many of the novices
of last year whose experience may
be the deciding factor in the intercollegiate bouts. Since most of the
boys are now veterans of the ring
the Dal supporters need have no fear
about the showing the team will
make,

Built around his veterans Craig
Smith, Henry Ballam and Duke
Lebowitz, Coach Abe Becker with
his assistants Manny Preiss, Tony
Minichillo, Milt Lipitz and Physical
Director, Sven Korning, hopes to
bring together a team which is undoubtedly capable of holding its own
with any other in the province.

 

- Henry Ballam, runner up for the

the squad. He needs no introduction
to the fans, having turned in several

last two years. Duke Lebowitz, another veteran

and runner-up for the heavyweight
title last year, would most certainly

have won the title had he not hurt |,

his right arm in his first fight. The
Duke, who is interning at the Grace
Maternity Hospital will turn from
delivering babies to delivering lefts
and rights again this year.

The third veteran, Craig Smith,
has grown out of the lightheavyweight class into the heavyweight
division and is back, cockier than
ever, and says that he will be a sure
winner.

One of the most likely looking
prospects on the team this year in
the featherweight class is Tommy
White of P. E. I. Tommy, a member
of the 1987 squad, was out of school
last year and has returned stronger
and faster than ever. Those who
have seen the 1937 Intercollegiates
will remember Tommy’s fight
against George Hill of Mt. A., last
year’s winner of the Intercollegiate
featherweight title. Another in the
same class who is expected to give
Tommy competition is Ev. Merchant
a member of the 1938 squad.

The welter-weight class has Hugh
Henderson and Dick Davis, both
members of last year’s squad and
newcomer John Windebark. The winner of the interclass match between
these three lads will most likely get
more competition than he will receive in any of the outside meets.

In the middleweight class newcomer George C. Kilsel seems to
have awed any others who had their
eyes on this crown. —

Another newcomer is Robert Langille who has shown great promise
(in the 175 Ib. class). Other newcomers in the field of boxing are
slugger Morten, Star of Yarmouth,
and two-fisted slugger Leon Fried
of Uncle Sam’s Domain who has already issued’a challenge to all com
ers and to someone in particular for |

whom he bears a grudge.

While Manager Abe Becker is

\ pea as

e* aod

 

= : Fee rl EK teat aa) Saag on 8 + A emma A ot nee mene Far
Ts we ;
J ‘i

 

from 7-8.

 

 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
   

Cirls’ Sports

Basketball:

Now that exams are over people

are really beginning to turn out for
basketball. On Tuesday night there
were about twenty-five out and Miss
Wray put them through a good
workout.
meeting of the basketball players
and they discussed the interclass
league and the matter of uniforms
for the basketball team.

Afterwards there was a

There are to be three teams in the

league, freshettes, sophomores, and
juniors and seniors combined. Hazel
Brownhill is in charge of forming
the sophomore team and Shirley
Kirkpatrick is responsible for the
junior and senior team. Practices
will be held Tuesday evening at 7.30,
Wednesday at 4.00 (freshettes) and
4.30, and Saturday at 12.
practice times are for everybody.
The league games will probably be
played on Saturday. Any girls who
want to play in the league should
get
Shirley, or Hazel.

These

in touch with Miss Wray,

At the meeting the type and color

of basketball uniforms was decided.
They are to be black tunics with
yellow blouses.
discussed getting sneakers, and if
you want a pair tell Florence Armstrong, because the more ordered the
cheaper they will be.

The meeting also

 

Dancing Class:

Well, it seems that there is a de
mand for a mixed dancing class so

Miss Wray has decided to start one.
It will include ballroom dancing —
both plain and fancy steps, also
square dancing and folk dancing.

It is not possible to arrange times
for this until it is known who wants
to join and when they can come so
see Miss Wray. This applies to boys
as well as girls!

 

Swimming

On Feb. 10 at the Y.M.C.A. will be
held a Ladies’ Swimming Meet. The
events are as follows:

60 yds. free-stroke,
50 yds. breast-stroke.
50 yds. side stroke.
50 yds. back stroke.
Plain relay.

Medley relay.

. Swing.

In the diving either a running or
a standing plain is compulsory and
any other two dives.

Dalhousie is expecting to enter a
team so anyone who is interested
should give their name either to
Phil Wray or the swimming manager, Shirley Kirkpatrick. Practices
will be held in the Y.M.C.A. tank on
Tuesday and Thursday evenings
Freshettes who turn out
for a swimming practice will receive
credit for a gym class.

Dalhousie won the Cup last year
and it is hoped that a goodly number
will turn out to defend it.

ae ee a eS

Sign in a local grocery store: “The
world is coming to an end. Please
pay your bills now so we won’t have
to hunt all over hell for you.”
—McGill Daily.

 

more than pleased with those turning out he would like to see more

new comérs. | This is'a blanket invi
tation and is simply to assure Dal

of a continuous, strong ‘representation which is possible only if others
are ready to take the place of those
that graduate. Even if you have
never worn gloves before you are
welcome and will be taught to wear
The team has regular work-outs

on Tuesday and Thursday at 8.30

and on Saturday at 2.30,

es,

mee 8th th A here ll I em a

mee emerson me ce iit ig iti tii tha cae a

 

BEARCATS TROUNCE TIGERS |
|

TRURO, 3; DALHOUSIE, 1
Truro Bearcats skated off the
Arena ice on Monday night the victors in a fast and hard-fought game
with Dalhousie. The Tigers, outscored 3-1, put up a scrap that kept

a good crowd of students roaring | blue line, with McGregor carrying
It was the| the

from start to finish.
initial appearance of the team in
Halifax, and they played a great
game. Truro displayed smoother
hockey, but Dal made up in fight
what they lacked in finish. In
Buckley, DeWolfe, and Graham,
Coach Ferguson has a fast and experienced front line. Berkley was a
treat to watch at centre, and Pooh

played his head off in the last period. |

Feindel and MacGregor combined to
form the best Dal defense the present
writer has seen.

Always weak in this department,
the Tigers played good defensive
hockey when Truro pressed, although
poor clearing gave the Bearcats
their first goal.
was cool and finished, and pulled off

Munro in the nets |

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

|

 

applause.

 

some saves that brought roars of
Ferguson changed his
line frequently, and it was with
Corston at centre, that Dal, scored
in the second period. McGregor,
Corston and Dickey broke from the

puck. He went up centre,
swerved to the left at the Truro line,
and came through with a blistering
shot on the net. Corston was right
in front for the re-bound and batted
it in for Dal’s only goal. Truro
scored a goal in each period, the
first from a mix-up, the second a solo
by Lawrence and the final a smart
combination play with Cummings
scoring. The game proved that Dal
has a team worthy of the support
of the entire student body. Monday
night’s rooters had a grand time.
Let’s all be there next night.

Dal line-up: Goal: Munro; Defence: Feindel, MacGregor; Centre:
Buckley, Smith, Grant; Left Wing:
DeWolfe, Dickey, Corston; Right

 

| Wing: Graham, Thomas.

 

Shots on the Net

Truro got the penalty, although

Dal did its share of bodying. Inability to make power plays click
accounted for the loss. Corston
played good defensive hockey at
centre, but showed no great playmaking ability when attacking.
Grant will improve with conditioning; he has the speed and experience
the team needs. Feindel and McGregor were surprisingly strong; the
whole team played good defensive
hockey, with forwards back-checking well. Fergie will have to juggle
that second line a few more times
before the winning combination
turns up. Dickey played well, but
the other members failed to impress.
Munro had Big-League savoir-faire
and played each shot for all it was
worth. Dal is in fast company.
Those Bear Cats are big, speedy and
smooth. We can’t expect miracles,
but we will see good hockey. The
team doesn’t have to win to deserve
our support.
. The game was played in a real
college atmosphere, just the way our
games should be played. The band
showed the effects of the Christmas
lay-off, but was good; and the
crowd noisy, singing, hollaring all
the way, eating peanuts, hot dogs,
and drinking coffee (?). Next game
we want all the north side packed,
with “One, Two, Three” shaking the
rafters.

 

EXPLOSION—

(Continued from page 2)

were hurled through the windows.
The hat of one of the injured men
was found on the rugby field, one
hundred yards from the building.

The larger part of the botany
museum was destroyed and all experiments being conducted in the
building were ruined, It is estimated that the total damage will be
found to exceed $55,000.

At present no explanation of the
cause of the explosion is known. Although propane itself is an odourless gas, it is mixed in the university plant with materials giving it
a detectable smell.

 

SCHOLARSHIPS—

(Continued from page one)

educations are doing so at the expense of the state. Mr. Martin believes that if some _ scholarship
system is not adopted in Canada we,
as a country, will suffer economically
for at. present only one per cent of
the people have received a college
education.

The interference of the _ preChristmas examinations and resulting vacation has prevented Dalhousie
from organizing its campaign, which
on other campuses commenced early
in December. For this reason it
will have to be concentrated into the
next three weeks in order that some
results can be forwarded, before a
delegation of Canadian students
presents its petition in February.
The local committee is: Chairman:
Jim Milner; Secretary: Glynn Firth;
Publicity Committee: Barbara Murray, Anne Hirsch, Zilpha Linkletter,
Lawrence O’Brien.

POWERS—

(Continued from page one)

with their blood for freedom; they
know that they are living today only
because their ancestors “loved freedom and rights and justice more
than anything else. But it takes the
great democracies a long time to
realize the greatness of a danger
that threatens them.”

igi mmm il eee ream gta as

 

Give
an evening well spent

A Good Finish

by visiting

The

Green Lantern
407-409 Barrington St.

 

  
  
 

catalogue of “College Helps”.
a copy now—it’s free. —

HELP WANTED
Students wanted to keep their eyes open and watch for their free
Make sure you get yours. Write for

THE BOOK EXCHANGE
Canada’s Book-Clearing House”
370 Bloor St. W., Toronto, Ontario

 

 

GAUVIN AND GENTZEL
Special Rates to Studemts — 24 Hour Finishing Service
18 SPRING GARDEN ROAD _

   

Skt

Phone B 6992

‘Dalhousie gym.

|already started.

  

 

January 138, 1939

 

 

Wednesday

McCurdy Cup
Dal vs. Militia

 

 

 

Basketball

 

Feb. 23—7 p.m., King’s vs. St.
George’s at Dal floor.

Feb. 25—7 p.m., R.C.E. ws. Dalhousie; 8 p.m., St. George’s vs.

Dalhousie’s senior team will play | Halifax Academy; at “Y” floor.

in a four-team league.
game will be on February 2 in the

league made up of six teams has
The Cubs will play
their first game this Saturday,
January 14, at the Y. M. C. A. at
8 o’clock. Within the next few days
a new coach will take charge of the
team as Charlie Steers has been
transferred from the city by his
company.

Schedule

Senior

Feb. 2—8 p.m., Dalhousie vs. Aca
The first |

March 4—7 p.m., Y.M.C.A., vs.
King’s; 8 p.m., R.C.E., vs. Halifax

The intermediate | Academy; at “Y” floor.

March 9—7 p.m., Dalhousie vs. St.
George’s; 8 p.m., King’s vs. Halifax
Academy; at Dal floor.

March 11—7 p.m., Y.M.C.A., vs.
St. George’s at “Y” floor.

March 16—7 p.m., Dalhousie vs.
Halifax Academy at Dal floor.

March 18—7 p.m., R.C.E. vs. Y.M.
C.A. at “Y” floor.

March 23—7 p.m., King’s vs. Dalhousie at Dal floor.

 

dia; 9 p.m., Y.M.C.A. vs. Dalhousie; INTERFACULTY BASKETBALL

Alumni; at Dalhousie gym.

Feb. 9—8 p.m., Dalhousie vs. Dalhousie Alumni at Dalhousie gym.

Feb. 14—8 p.m., Acadia vs. Y.M.
C.A. at Wolfville gym.

Feb. 16—8 p.m., Dalhousie vs.
Y.M.C.A.; Dalhousie Alumni
Acadia at Dalhousie gym.

Feb. 23—8 p.m., Dalhousie Alumni
vs. Y.M.C.A. at Dalhousie gym.

Feb. 28—8 p.m., Acadia vs. Dalhousie at Wolfville gym.

March 2—8 p.m. Dalhousie Alumni
vs. Dalhousie; 9 p.m., Y.M.C.A. vs.
Acadia; at Dalhousie gym.

VS.

 

Intermediate

Jan. 7—7 p.m., Y.M.C.A. vs. Halifax Academy; 8 p.m., St. George’s
vs. R.C.E., at “Y” floor.

..Jan. 14—7 p.m., Halifax Academy
vs. Dalhousie; 8 p.m., St. George’s
vs. King’s; at “Y” floor.

Jan. 19—7 p.m., Dalhousie vs. Y.M.

C.A.; 8 p.m., King’s vs. R.C.E., at |}

Dal floor

Jan. 21—7 p.m., St. George’s vs.
Y.M.C.A.; 8 p.m., Halifax Academy
vs. R.C.E.; at “Y” floor.

Jan. 26—7 p.m., King’s vs. Y.M.
C.A.; 8 p.m., Dalhousie vs. R.C.E.;
at Dal floor.

Jan. 28—7 p.m., Halifax Academy
vs. King’s; St. George’s vs. Dalhousie; at “Y” floor.

Feb. 4—7 p.m., Y.M.C.A., vs. R.
C.E.; 8 p.m., Halifax Academy vs.
St. eGorge’s; at “Y” floor.

Feb. 9—T7 p.m., Dalhousie vs.
King’s at Dal floor.

Feb. 11—7 p.m., Halifax Academy
vs. Y.M.C.A.; 8 p.m., R.C.E. vs. St.
George’s; at “Y” floor.

Feb. 18—7 p.m., Y.M.C.A. vs. Dal
housie; 8 p.m., R.C.E. vs. King’s; at| Tuesday, 28th—Playoffs.

“Y” floor

January

Tuesday, 17th—12 to 2.00:

Eng. vs. Frosh

Mech. vs. Law

A. and S. vs. Dent.
Thursday, 19th—12 to 2.00:

Eng. vs. Law

Frosh vs. Arts

Dent vs. Med
Tuesday, 24th—i12 to 2.00:

Eng vs. A. and S.

Frosh vs. Med

Law vs. Dent
Thursday, 26th—12 to 2.00:

Eng vs. Med

A. and S. vs.Law

Dent vs. Frosh
Tuesday, 3lst—12 to 2.00:

Law vs. A. and S.

Med vs. Frosh

Eng vs. Dent

February

Thursday, 2nd—12 to 2.30:

Law vs. Eng.

A. and S. vs. Med

Frosh vs. Dent
Tuesday, 7th—12 to 2.00:

Frosh vs. Eng

Dent vs. A. and §.,
Thursday, 9th—12 to 2.00:

A. and S. vs. Frosh

Dent vs. Eng
Tuesday, 14th—12 to 2.06:

Law vs. Med

A. and S. vs. Eng
Thursday, 16th—2 to 2.00:

Frosh vs. Law

Med vs. Dent
Tuesday, 2lst—12 to 2.00:

Dent vs. Law

Med vs. Eng
Thursday, 23rd:

Med vs. A. and S.

Law vs. Frosh

Thurs., March 2nd—Playoffs.

 

|

 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
   
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
