  
 
 
  
 
   

 

 

VOL. LXX1.

Dalhousie {

  
  
 

“THE COLLEGE

 

 

HALIFAX, N. S., FEBRUARY 17, 1939

No. 17

 

 

Lawyers Play at Parliament

Discuss Bren Gun, and Railways

MISS WRAY ‘CAUSES STIR |W] F.C.S. Backs C.U.P.

 

 

The Dalhousie Law School Mock
Parliament began under favourable
conditions Monday night when the
doors of the Munro Room were
opened to the first session of the
Parliament at 7.45. After the preliminaries were gone through Mr.
Leonard Fraser, member of the Independent Party, was elected Speaker of the House. His selection was
heartily supported by all members
of the House, whose gratitude in this
matter was expressed by the leaders
of the three parties. Mr. Fraser, a
barrister from the city, has on two
former occasions very ably executed
the tasks of the office, and this year
he held up his own record. The
House then adjourned to the Senate
Chamber where the Speech from the
Throne was read by His Excellency
the Governor General, Mr. J. A.
Walker, K.C., a city barrister.

On their return to the House, the
Hon. the Minister of Public Works,
(Mr. E. Cragg) introduced Bill No.
1, to provide softer seats for the Law
School. The first reading was given
and the House then heard letters
from various local leaders of the
political parties. Vociferous applause
from the Opposition greeted the
letter es the Leader of the Opi provincial house.

me "On th oe fice the Prime Mini| ‘ster the speech from the Throne was
_ tabled—

The Hon. Minster of Transport
(Mr. Corocoran), seconded by the
member from Dorchester (Mr. Bus
Phillips), moved the speech in reply
to the Speech from the Throne.

The House then proceeded with the
debate on the Speech from the
Throne, which occupied the time of
the hon. members for the remainder
of the evening. What the hon. members said will not bear repetition, but
anyone interested can see Hansard
as soon as it comes off the press.
The hon. the leader of the Opposition
spoke at great length, and was followed by the leader of the Independent Party, who had already drawn
considerable comment from _ the
Speaker, because of the somewhat
violent colour of his tie. The hon.
member for Beauharnois (M. Poirier) moved the adjournment of the
speech in French, or some other unknown tongue, which was replied to
in French by the Hon. the Minister of
Finance (Mr. Amiro). Considerable
debate arose as to whether the
Speaker could take official notice of
these languages, which were described by some hon. member as “bad
French and worse English”. When
the house, after giving first reading
to two bills, returned to the debate
on the Royal speech, the Hon. the
Minister of Justice (R. D. Ash,
B.Se.) occupied the centre of attention for some time. He made several
LAWYERS PLAY—

(Continued + page 3)

Skating Party

For big skaters and little skaters,
fat skaters and thin skaters, good
‘skaters and bad skaters, all roads
will lead to the Arena on Tuesday
night for the first skating session
of the year. The skating party will
last from 8 to 10 o’clock, said Coun
 

ooo

EXECUTIVE MAKES PLANS

 

Montreal, (C.U.P.) — Augmentation of its present services and an
increase in the total number of
services of the National Federation
of Canadian University Students was
announced by John H. McDonald,
Federation President.

The announcement followed the
decision of the Executive of the
Federation to implement the Policy
of the Conference held at Winnipeg
over the Christmas holidays last

winter.
“One of the most important things
undertaken by the Federation,”

stated McDonald, “was the backing
of the Canadian University Press.
This has worked out so successfully
that it is now a vital factor in the
life of every college newspaper in
the Dominion. But besides backing
the Canadian University Press the
Federation has been quietly at work
in a long range and broad program
which it now feels should be announced to its members.”

The chief features of the revitalized program announced by the
president are the increase in the
Federation’s Scholarship, travel and
information services. Additional services in the form of an Employment
Bureau, a Dramatic Club clearing
house, a student Radio Hour and the
formation of an advisory council
were announced. The next Executive
Conference of the Federation would
be held in Ottawa on December 27,
1939, McDonald said.

Points in the policy of the National Federation of Canadian University Students are as follows:

1. Scholarship Plans.

2. Travel; tours, railway reductions and youth hostels.

3. Employment Bureau.

4. Debating, national and international, radio.

5. Student Radio hour.

6. Information Service.

7. Dramatic Club Central
ganization.

8. Reductions in purchase price
of Athletic Equipment.

9. Formation of Advisory Council,

10. Decision to hold the Biennial
Executive Meeting and Conference
at Ottawa, during the Christmas
Holiday of 19389.

Or
 

On Pharos

| tone.”
amusing and the actors spoke out

GLEE CLUB LEADS

 

ZILPHA LINKLETTER

Adjudicator Praises

FEARS TO BRUISE ENG. 9

 

 

The question of the hour is “Who
will capture the Connolly Shield?”
Never has competition been so keen
nor rumour so rife. Bill Stevens,
Glee Club business manager, says

that there is no doubt but that it)
and bases |

will be “Mariposa Bung”
his choice on the
Gazette drama critic.
phy, president of Player’s Guild,
modestly believes “Overruled” still
has a chance. Professor C. L. Bennet, adjudicator of the one act drama
festival, said after Wednesday’s performances: “Six plays have been
given, one or two more are to come.
I don’t know where I am and if I
did I wouldn’t tell you.” He believes
that this year has set a record for
careful se'ection of plays.

opinion of the
Walter Mur
“Best Freshman One-Acter”

About tre embellishments to the
freshmen “Sally Spry” he was a little dubious: ‘The introduction of
_ocal names was confusing to the audience and pointless” but “its the
best freshman one-act play that I’ve
seen”. We’ll forget that he concluded this sentence with “I haven’t seen
any other.” Outstanding characters
were Kay Hicks and Bill Harvey.
Miss Hicks “showed a pretty good
idea of mimicry”. Mr. Harvey “entertained the audience and sometimes himself.” Gordon Kinley was
“a little stiff and unnatural because
he was asked to act himself”. The
women, Kay Robertson and Isobel
Morrel met with the same difficulties. Miss Robertson’s voice was
effective—‘a cross between a whispering contralto and a Demara bariLines at times were quite

though often they made announcements rather than speeches.”

Casting Good

“The casting of ‘Between the Soup
and the Savoury’ was good and the
set effective,” said the adjudicator.
Criticizing the characters he said:
“With Miss Morison there was a
tendency to exaggeration in acting
and makeup and a little much burlesque. She was too emphatic, positive ard active a character where sho
should have been shrinking and
apologinzinz for being alive—but a

| little over acting is safe with an au; | dience you are not sure of.”

“Miss MacLean carried the story
from upstairs quite effectively. At
times she was rather too much like

 

ee

_sulfide containing

GENE MORRISON

 

Critic Plans Plays

Reca

 

lis Schultz and Minsky

 

By

Back in Westbrook Pegler’s “Era
Wonderful Nonsense”

The Gazette Dramatic Critic
of

extracting their protection money
from the cinema house proprietors.
A gross or so of those hydrogen
capsules,
referred to as stink bombs, were
dropped.on the floor of the lobby. of
the offending house. The usual result was a rapid exodus of all patrons present.

The day of Dutch Schultz
passed but the odour eminating from
the Glee Club stage on Wednesday
night was strongly reminiscent of
those days when he ruled as feuded
baron of New York Gangsterism.

The occasion was still the Cennelly |
Shield which again this year is the |
life-blood of the Glee Club Organization. Delta Gamma offered “Between
Soup and Savoury”’—a tale of the
workings of a scullery seance. It
was a frivolous piece, not much interested in getting anywhere, but
which drew some excellent characterizations. Cook, scullery maid, and
housewife, were all shown clearly
and with a certain finesse.

Miss Gene Morison was excellent
as the scullery maid and if her range
of emotion was somewhat narrow it
should be placed down to her inter
pretation of the role differing from
mine. As Mr. Bennet pointed out,
the shyness, which to me should have
pervaded the role, was interpreted
as a burlesque of awkwardness. The

Dutch |
Schultz’s boys had a quaint way of |

vulgarly |

 

 

| years

Students Meet at St. F. X.

Discuss Foreign Policy, Franchise, Teaching

GO WEST]! Maritime University

 

of the
1939-40,
at

With the announcement
Exchange Scholarships for
a limited number of students
Dalhousie have the opportunity of
obtaining a year’s scholarship at
some other Canadian University.
These scholarships, which are sponsored by the National Federation of
Canadian University Students, enable
students to study at an “exchange”
university for one year without pay
'ing tuition fees or Students Union

Fees. The N.F.U.S. Representative
on this campus is Mr. Henry Ross,
and prospective applicants can obtain
full details from him.

The Exchange of Undergraduates
Plan was initiated about ten years
ago by the executive of the N.F.C.
U.S., and came into operation eight
ago after the presidents,
registrars, and financial authorities
of the Canadian universities had
given their consent. Under the plan
the universities are divided into four
groups—the University of British
Columbia, the universities of the
Prairie Provinces, the universities of
Ontario and Quebec, and the universities of the Maritimes.
may be awarded only where a stu
dent of one university wishes to)the franchise?

 

| the C.U.P.

 

Scholarships |

| Fraser,

 

Press Assoc. Formed

 

Seventy-two delegates from ten
Maritime Colleges meeting at St.
Francis Xavier University decided
that college graduates should have
a special teacher’s license, that
teacher’s salaries in the Maritimes
should be increased by government
subsidies, and that a student’s employment bureau be inaugurated.
The three-day Conference saw the
formation of a Maritime University
Press to work in conjunction. with
and the appointment of
Dalhousie’s representative, Edmund
Morris, as its first President. Other
members of the M.U.P. executive are
Char.es Walsh of St. Thomas, Joan
Tompkinson of Mount Allison, and
Donald Dixon of St. Francis Xavier.

Discussion on Canada’s Foreign
Policy, led by Webster MacDonald,
Otto Antoft, John Laing, Lincoln
Joan Cunningham and
Frances Glass of King’s College, resulted in the resolution, ‘Resolved
that in all major Canada’s
Foreign Polcy should be in accordance with that of Great Britain.”

issues

Provincial Franchise Discussed
Should university students enjoy
‘The Maritime Con
obtain scholarship at a university in| ference delegates think they should

a different “Division’’.

This is sub-! and so appointed a committee to

| ject to one exception—Ontario stu- investigate the electoral acts with

 

 

 

result was that when a change of !

pace was required in the role a
speeding-up was impossible due to
' the original pace set.

It is felt in some quarters that
Mardi Prowse, inspired by Gypsy
Rose Lee’s success with the Brothers
Minsky, was compelled to place her
best foot forward. Unfortunately

 

neither of the two gentlemen was |

present.

Miss MacLean can act, and the|

!

fact that she failed to remember the |

time when and the place
makes me more annoyed than any
ten hams floundering in a chasm of
awkwardness.

Miss Morison stole the show but it
was at best only petty larceny. The
day may yet come when Delta Gamma will realize that finding a good
one-act play with an entire female

where |

|

}

 

has| dents may apply for scholarships | the recommendation from the con
to French-Canadian Universities in| ference that changes in the electoral

Quebec for the purpose of taking
special studies in the French language and vice versa.

act should permit senior and gradu
‘ate students to enjoy the franchise.

}
|

Any student, male or female, may |

apply if he is, at the time of his

application, in the second year of his | ;;

Group insurance for college
athletics will be advocated through
the medium of student cooperatives
was decided in the group on

course or, in the case of five year | «cident and Control of Society.”

courses, in the second or third year.
It is a condition of each appointment
that the Exchange Scholar must return, at the conclusion of his scholarship year to complete his course at
his “home” university. Consequently
a Sophomore taking the usual four
 

It was also recommended that the
Federal Government subsidize the
production of fishing by-products.

‘Ballot counting at federal and provincial elections met with severe
criticism, with the result that a

year Arts course may be awarded a | committee was appointed to investi
scholarship for his third year; in the |
case of five-year course the scholarship may be awarded either for the |
third or fourth year.
ships are particularly easy to arrange in the Arts pass course. It is

GO WEST—

(Continued on page four)

 

Steff

|

 

 

gate the present system. It was
further recommended that the ballots
'from each particular polling booth in

The scholar-| 2 constituency be brought to a cen
tral station for counting.

Chairman of the Conference was
Peter Nearing of St. F. X., a delegate to last year’s Winnipeg National Conference. A prominent part
was tak2n by Norma Linton of the
University of New Brunswick, also

| CONFERENCE—
(Continued on page 4)

Frosh Meet

New Officers Chosen

Dissatisfaction among the Freshmen with the executive of their class
‘culminated in the resignation of
President Karsh in a meeting yesterday nonn. John McInnes, Treasurer of the class, had resigned the
previous week. Bob Swansburg was:
elected to become the new president,
and John Fraser became the new
treasurer. Helen Rogers, Vicepresident, and John Ballem, Secretary, retained. their positions on the

 

 

 

cast is a virtual impossibility.

The second presentation was
English 9’s “The Grand Cham’s Joan Blackwood
Diamond” which contained just about} The women’s interests will be
everything from farce to heavy| taken care of by Joan, who is an
PANS— Associate Editor of the 1939 Year

(Continued on page 4) Book.

i — cil Wednesday night, and a dance
P ic, will be held in the lower Gym right :
a>) ete the party. A stout heart and James Rankine
a pair _of skates are all that are| Although an interne at the Vicfor admission is free with, toria General Hospital, Jim has
a Students’ Council ticket. Guests| found time to be Photographic
are 25c a head. Editor of this year’s Pharos.

executive.

Arts and Science Society remained a bone of contention in the class,
and it was not decided how much
money the c’ass will grant the Society.

|a lady playing the part of a maid
than a maid playing the part of a
lady which she was supposed to be.”
“Miss Prowse was much too young

PRAISES—
(Continued on page 4)

an

a i ;

7 ove 2
needec
a

  
= ite?

ae

   

«Tet.

 

The views expressed in any column of The Gagette are those of the author; it cannot be
assumed that they represent the opinion of the student body.

GAZETTE STAFF —

Editor: BERNARD GRAHAM - - - - -_ B-5033
News Editor: WALTER MURPHY - = = §6-5191
Asst. News Editor: BARBARA MURRAY - -  H-5152
Sports Editor: DOUGLAS LYALL - - - -_ B-2607
Business Manager: SIDNEY A. GILLIES - - _ B-5487
Exchange Editor: JOAN BLACKWOOD - B-9746

MEN AND WOMEN

‘‘Our college campuses ought to be places where there
are fine outcomes in every range of life, and where there is
fine interplay of mind and spirit between men and women,
but this is rarely so.’’ —J. M. H.

The co-ed issue of the Gazette will be published next week.
That one particular section of the student body is to have complete responsibility for an issue of the Gazette makes us ask
what there is about these students that they should have this
opportunity and responsibility, any more than any other section of the student body; such as, the Medical Society, or the
D.A.A.C. That they are the girls of the college does not seem
to be an adequate reason for this unique privilege, for men
and women are students at Dalhousie and members of the
student body on a basis of complete equality. At least there
is nothing in the constitution of the student body to indicate
that there is not equality: legally, there is no reason why a
girl should not be selected as a candidate for the presidency
of the Students’ Council, nor appointed editor of the Gazette.

The first university calendar to carry a statement of the
acceptance of men and women on the same basis was that of
1883-84, which was published about two years after women
first began to attend Dalhousie. The last mention of the acceptance of men and women on an equal basis appeared in the
calendar of 1936-37. By then a statement of the equality of
men and women students was such a truism that it has not
since been published in the university calendar.

If men and women students are here on a basis of complete equality, and if both have equal rights to positions of
responsibility, then there is no more reason for the co-eds taking over an issue of the Gazette then there is for any other
group doing likewise. The answer made to this is that the
equality is legal, but no more than legal; because of the weight
of tradition and the attitude of most students, equality does
not really exist.

The publication of co-ed issues of the Gazette is one of the
historically necessary steps in developing an unconscious,
spontaneous attitude on the part of all students to the idea of
the equality of the sexes and to the expression of this idea in
student activities. The co-ed issue is not a concession to a less
capable group of students ;—we believe that the girls are just
as competent as the men;—its function is to announce to the
student body that the girls are taking an active and responsible
part in student life.

Next week’s issue will be the fourth co-ed issue. It seems
to us that this anomaly should not become traditional, for if
this were to happen its presence would encourage the attitude
that men and women are to be treated differently with respect
to major student activities, and so it would emphasize the difference between the actual and the constitutional state of
affairs, rather than lessen it.

* *

x * *

All this leads us to wonder about the present position of
men and women in the university, and the prevalent attitudes

. towards it, to consider if change is necessary, and desirable,

or even inevitable, and to discuss what such change might involve in readjustment and growth of personality.

The contemporary situation is characterized by confusion
and individual uncertainty. From sheer necessity we acknowledge, in part at least, the developments that have taken
place in social history, but we hesitate to adjust ourselves to
them. It would be so much easier for us if we could only accept
the traditional adjustments, but we feel that these do not really
apply to the present, and most of us have neither the courage
and honesty, nor the objectivity required to acknowledge completely the developments that have taken place in the social
and economic position of men and women, and to discover, for
ourselves, true adjustments to these developments. They have
been described by John Macmurray in Reason and Emotion:

“The development of civilization depends on the interplay of two
factors—individual initiative and social cohesion. . . .

“Now, it is roughly true that when civilization began to develop, it
was through the use of individuals standing out from the mass who
showed the capacity to act and think for themselves and so to become
spear-heads of initiative. That development of individuals has gone on
with increasing speed and effect. But it has been until recently almost
completely confined to men. We might say with very great truth that
when men took to being individuals . . . women took charge of the maintenance of social unity. So the sexes were differentiated in their social
functions—man towards individuality and intellect, women towards unity
and emotion. These, of course, are rough statements, but sufficiently
correct for their purpose. . .

“In our own day, however, it (i.e., this differentiation of the sexes)
has been challenged with increasing success, not in theory but practically.
Women have increasingly insisted that they are individuals, and must be
permitted to stand upon their own achievement; to realize their own
capacities as individuals; to exercise their own iniative in the development of civilization. They have entered the world of literature and art,
of politics, of the professions, of industry and commerce. And this is, I
think, bound to continue and increase. We cannot do other than look
upon it as a momentous advance in culture and civilization ; and to be
afraid of it is surely to fail in faith and courage. But it means in principle the disappearance of a differentiation of function which has governed the relation of the sexes from the dawn of history. No longer can
we look to women to guard the delicate spiritual attitudes which maintain the unity of persons in the face of the differentiating forces of individualism—of private self-realization. No longer can men specialize
in the intellectual life while women specialize in the emotional. The
social unity . . . must be maintained, if we are not to perish, but it can
no longer be maintained through the differentiation of the social functions

 

DALHOUSIE

‘tis said, a young man’s
fancy lightly turns to thoughts of
love. Be that as it may (personally
I doubt the fancy is ever far from
love) “tis undoubtedly true that at
Dalhousie, where everyone is civic
minded, and vita.ly interested in his
own we-fare, the fancy of the student at this time turns to politics.
There is an old Latin tag which will
not be familiar to you, but which is
much in point. Tempus fugit. (It
means, being interpreted, that time
flies.) Time in this instance has
flown around to the day when campus elections are in the air. Talk
will soon be heard to the effect
that Dalhousie is run by the Meds
(heaven forbid) or that it is time
Studley kad a Council President. It
is too. There is a peculiar idea
around Dalhousie that it takes an
expert to run the student body, and
consequently we must always go to
someone trained outside the walls of
our undergraduate institution. The
wisdom of this is obvious. No other

Obiter

GAZETTE

any fraternities, all have residences,
and so forth. Therefore, one from

these less iniquitous academies is
selected. The logic is devasting. It
is a characteristic which we are very
likely to carry on when we graduate.
You may have noticed that if the
federal government wants an expert,
it always selects a man from out of
town. Most of our federal rulers
have been infected with this expert
bug. We are not so far advanced in
the disease that we cannot check it
if we work fast. What we really
need is a Royal Commission set up
to investigate the evils attendant
upon campus life at Dalhousie. Such
a commission would make numerous
and excellent recommendations
which no one would act upon, and
everyone would be satisfied for several years. Think of it, a great
“What’s wrong with Dalhousie”
campaign to end all “What’s wrong
with Dalhousie’ campaigns. Hope
springs eternal in the human breast.

maritime co_lege has the same cam- | OBITER—
pus problems as Dalhousie, none has | (Continued on Page 3)

 

of the sexes. Women, if they are to develop their intellectual initiative,
will necessarily demand the right to stand side by side with men as
equal, independent individuals.”

In his review of Briffault’s huge work, The Mothers, Havelock Ellis describes our situation:

“We live,’ as Briffault remarks, ‘in a patriarchal society in which
patriarchal principles have ceased to be valid.’ We cannot, even if it
were desirable, return to any earlier order, but we can mould the future.
Men can unlearn the patriarchal theory, and women can learn that ‘all
racial ideas that are worth while are ultimately identical with their own
elemental instincts’; in throwing off their economic dependence they are
rescuing from the thraldom the deep realities of which they were the first
‘mothers’. Both sexes alike, putting aside all efforts to impose their own
ideals on the opposite sex and substituting mutual co-operation for sex
antagonism, can work together for the future evolution of society.”

While the situation for college students arises out of this
contemporary social development, yet there is for them a more
important problem. It is that of gaining personal freedom and
honesty, and of establishing personal friendships between the
members of the two sexes. That this is problematic is due
probably to attitudes which we have acquired unconsciously
from our environment and to our own egocentricity, our lack
of objectivity, our enjoying people as instruments for our own
ends rather than for their own personality.

Many of us, of both sexes, tend to assume that men are
more competent, wiser, and more capable of making decisions
and passing judgements than are women. Our acting on such
an assumption without verifying it has given an excellent
means of compensation to men with inferiority complexes. To
them women are not friends, but instruments for their own
ends. Since men are assumed the arbitrators in all matters,
women have to use their wits, have to be subtle and diplomatic, if they are to achieve their ends; and no real friendship
can be based on sly scheming. If either men or women use
one another to achieve social ends, to get to parties for the
mere sake of getting to parties, or to be able to brag about
the company they keep or the influence they have over others,
ie yey are treating one another as instruments, and not as

riends.

If a person chooses to be in another’s company, not because he enjoys that other person, but because he enjoys his
own feelings in that person’s company, then he is exploiting
that person as a means to an end, rather than enjoying his or
her company as a friend. This means that all physical demonstrations of emotion, all caresses which are not spontaneous
expressions of sincere, mutual affection, which exist only to
heighten emotion and to increase one’s enjoyment of one’s own
feelings in the company of another, destroy the possibility of
real friendship. On the other hand, expressions of sincere,
mutual affection, which have meaning and worth, help cement
friendships. Our fear of having our own true selves known,
our fear that those whom we want to be our friends will think
less of us and will have less affection for us if they really
know us, keeps us from being honest and encourages us in our
affectations; but friendship withers under such deception. The
casual, superficial meetings at social affairs and the great difficulty of meeting people in situations in which you can get to
know them, really know them, also inhibit the growth of
friendship and understanding.

All these things make it difficult for men and women
students to, meet one another in an atmosphere of freedom
and appreciation of one another, and on a basis of equality.
But it is necessary to overcome the difficulty if we are to have
enriching friendships, if there is to be the desired readjustment in student activities, and if we are to face up to, rather
than avoid, contemporary social developments.

It must now be clear that we do not agree with the opinion
expressed elsewhere in this issue that the solution of our difficulties depends upon the girls deciding whether they want to
be “feminine and dependant, or rather ultra-modern and selfsufficient”. Neither sex is or can ever be self-sufficient. And
we believe that the responsibility for readjustment rests as
much on the men as on the women, and that the difficulty for
one is as great as for the other.

1 * a 4

_ “Of all the great thinkers of Europe until nearly our own
time, Plato was the only one who dared to challenge that differentiation of the sexes with a full knowledge of what it
might mean... ” You will find his challenge in book five of

the Republic,—a book every college student should read before
he graduates.

 

nN cg Sa a — _—_ ——— SSS
v7
2,
¢
% 7
(Looe
+3 4
S a
‘ . oes
Soa
/ Sore A ¥
WY
SS 0
> /
Ce dd
J CJ

February 17, 1939

 

“The Chinese call it—‘Swish, walkee backee mile’”’

“I call it—‘Swish,—then a Sweet Cap!’”

SWEET CAPORAL CIGARETTES

“The purest form in which tobacco can be smoked.”

 

   

WHEN YOU NEED:
DRUGS MEDICINES PRESCRIPTIONS

YOU GET BETTER SERVICE AND VALUE

Kinley’s Drug Stores

  
    
 

Get a Pair of
Skates

While the Season Lasts

Writing Worries

Be sure your writing
equipment is in good
condition.

Birks maintain a good
assortment of pens
and pencils, in standard makes.

HENRY BIRKS AND
SONS LIMITED

Diamond Merchants
Halifax, N. S.

We have them at all prices

Wallace Bros.
Limited
“Specialists in Fitting”

415 BARRINGTON STREET

 

News of The Home
News of The World
*

NEWS WHEN IT IS NEWS
FOR EVERY MEMBER OF THE FAMILY

read

THE HALIFAX DAILY STAR

  

1S

Ss TEESE POUECESOOOOOTCETET

Smooth, buttery totfee
in delicious milk

chocolate /

LUT

IS

  
  
  
  
 
 
 

      
 

  

   

  

my

=

=
0
a?
[4 —
iS:

LTT)

fo eat — |
try it today /

C.3712

 

 
     
  
   
 
 
   
   
  
    
   
  
   
  
  
 
  
  
  

ryt Aa

TO THE LADIES
othe Editor:

es make with a great deal of
est and not a little awe, the
. that some of the damsels on
campus have recently run up
the distress signal. It appears that
the ladies have not been receiving
ir due amount of respect from
males who, like librarians, labs,
gyms are a necessary fixture on
most campi.

, pene what it was that motivated
the girls to get together and weep
| the wailing wall of self-pity and
. i ed bitter tears of regret into their
beer out of sorrow for themselves
is more than the writer can understand. I am not so much referring
to a recent epistle lamenting the
of chivalry which was re) - ently printed, as much as I am re: _ ferring to actual complaints that
_ haye reached me on the field of

  

a eee, 3a “with deep gratification that
% _ ~your correspondent notes that the
more deadly of the species have at

 

last a common standard under
i : which they can proclaim their disMW _ satisfaction. ‘Knighthood, it would
seem, is not only no longer in flow_er—but it would appear as though
¥ someone has misplaced the seeds.
he prevailing feeling among the
girls is that the only time the bold
male bends low from the waist is
when he has indulged not wisely
but too well. That is, in itself, I
‘suppose, a fact worthy of making
the girls clang the village alarm
to summon an emergency meeting
of the Chin Gang, and then proceed to let down their hair and
have a good cry.

In all truthfulness, your correspondent cannot say that the living
organisms whose duty it is to perpetuate the rib of man have not
yelled “Uncle” without at least
some justification. Woman, in college, at least, has shown herself so
allergic to height that the boys
have removed her from her pedestal.
On second thought, I am not so
iy _ sure ‘that she did not ask to be

taken down. Despite this, there ex
ey oe ; a faction on the campus who

feel that the girls still have, at
Teas, their heads in the clouds.

I said, there seems to be at
hicket some justification for the howl
that has been raised because of
- man’s inhumanity to women. Hats
are no longer raised with respect—
_ because eyebrows would be raised
- simultaneously with contempt. No

3 longer are doors opened for the
dears—because they always get
there first.

It is futile to center the conversation around the girl friend—because
she takes care of that quite proficiently herself. To hold a willowing

_wisp of femininity by the arm on
a slippery evening is dangerous—
he will, liable as not, call a cop and
boast that she is being abducted.
So may be cited all the manifestations that show that at long last
woman has achieved that state of
_ living for which she has blubbered
80 long—equality with man.
Therein lies the inconsistency of
their demands. They want to be as
feminine as a silk stocking and as
masculine as a Dunhill pipe. They
desire, even at times demand, chivin their companions. Yet when
it is offered they resent the impliia that as members of the weaker of the sexes they are in need of

Tae

> Tey an experiment some night

ES

fj

  

 

. *
i 7

ip

‘SURREALISM

Sleepy people

In a steeple.

People in a heap;

Steepy steeple,

Weepy people,

Scared to make a leap;

Steeply weople,

Peeply leaple.
—Manitoban.

 

You kissed and told,
But that’s all right—
The man you told

Called up last night.
—Gateway.

—
—

a

a Bi enp us iG stendeuec

that you are tired of living. Before
you do so check on your insurance
policy inasmuch as your beneficiaries might be able to use. the
money after you’re gone. Ask a coed if you could help her off a sleigh
after a sleigh-drive—she’ll melt the
snow on her coat with the heat of
indignation and demand whether you
think she’s paralyzed. (I’ve known
some that were.) If you live through
that one, ask her if you can help
her off with her overshoes — she’ll
accuse you of trying to give her a
hotfoot. Help her off with her coat
and she’ll accuse you of appraising
it for a prospective visit to the
second-hand shop. Lift off your hat
to her and she’ll accuse you of electioneering.

I don’t especially enjoy cutting
the ropes on anybody’s swing, but
I do feel that the young ladies
should answer the question, “What
are you—half men or mice?”

The substance of the entire thing
is that the boys on the campus
would like the girls to make up
their minds. Would it be asking
too much to request them to decide
whether they want to be feminine
and dependent, or ultra-modern and
self-sufficient? This is from one of
that vast army on the campus who’d
like to know. If the columns of the
Gazette are open for a discussion,
it should be hectic.

Yours truly,
JUST ME.

HOLLYWOOD AGAIN

To the Editor Dalhousie Gazette:

Sir,—Three weeks ago I was privileged to write an editorial. for “you
on “Hollywood and What It Represents.” The following week I was
quite freely criticised in your columns for my critical snobbery. I
am answering not in the form of
an apalogia but simply to quote a
more universally recognized authority.

In “Time” magazine of Feb. 13,
under Cinema will be found a review of “Idiot’s Delight”. The following are a few paragraphs taken
from that review:

“Whenever Hollywood touches
material of this sort, it stirs up a
tremendous agitation about whether
or not the cinema will be courageous enough to retain the meaning of
the original. ...

“But agitations about Hollywood’s
courage have little to do with the
price of eggs. Hollywood not only
has no courage but is not concerned
with having any.

“. .. This caution, however, is
not due primarily to Hollywood’s reluctance to offend but merely to its
intense eagerness to make profits.
Author Sherwood, as familiar with
the screen as he is with the stage,
was well aware that no _ ideology
this side of Heaven is nearly as
important to cinema audiences as
the spectacle of Clark Gable embracing Norma Shearer for the first
time since they both appeared in
‘Strange Interlude’ (1932).”

For further reference I would
suggest my polite critics read
“Time” of the previous issue, Clifton Fadiman’s review of “TIdiot’s
Delight” in the “New York”, and
the movie page of the “New York
Times” of Feb. 5. Needless to say,
they all support my side.

I have discussed with the editor
the advisability of using the
afore-mentioned publications on the
grounds of plagiarism, but he has
advised me against it. Anyhow,
thanks for: the interest.

Yours truly,

The newcomer hired by a movie
studio was informed he was to do a
comedy scene with a lion.

The newcomer knocked on the
pearly gates and St. Peter’s voice
called:

“Who’s there?”

“Tt is I’, answered the newcomer.

“Well, get out. We don’t want

any more school teachers.”—The
Sheaf.

 

“My husband talks in his sleep.
Does yours?”

“No, and it’s so exasperating. He
just smiles.”—The Sheaf.

<n
a —————— ————————————

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

a ——

eT of Bunk |

Chapter V.

1. And so it has come to pass that
agyn murmurs or dis-con-tent are
herde through the Lande of Dal as
tyme comes when the studes bigyne
to thynke about affairs of the
Lande. And once more Minds are
turned to the Greet Problem of
Whether or Nay the inhabitants of
the Lande shoude be taught Ca-nuck
games by a qualified in-struc-tor.

2. And so the matter has been
taken up by the Leaders in the
Campes and Kronicler has lerned
that a Re-com-men-da-shun has
been draughted by the Studes’ Committee of the Gym and will be presen-ted to Shee-han and his Cohorts
and thence to the Council of Wisemen for approval.

3. And following this, the Recom men-da-shun will be sent to the
Boarde of Governors and all hope
that ak-shun will be taken. And it
is seyde the studes aske only for a
capable in-structor.

4. And ’tis seyde that the wryter
of “If I Were A Dictator” begot his
in-spira-shun of hys ‘Composite
Woman” from the legs of Joan of
the Black Wood. And therein lyes
a Tale. For this Myghty Wielder
of the Pen witnesseth of the Legs
of Joan much more than ordinary
men, for on the landyng of the
stairs he stood, when Joan came
down, but not as she shoude. And
it happened in the Bilding of the
Arts within the Fortnight passed.
And that wryter watched hir falle
down those stairs — and watched
agayn and marvelled. And then
pycked up hys Pen and wrote. And
the Kronicler woude but seys that
he well agrees with that wryter.

5. And the storee is told of Shirley of the Kirk. How She was of
the swan-like body and faire face
brought greet malencholie to Red
Lew of the Brotherhood of Sigs and
likewise to Blond Butch of the Brotherhood of Phis. For both these
studes, of stature taller than ordinary men, caste eye upon She of the
Tribe of the Kirk and found hir
talle body full of grace and to thir
liking. And quick were They to
communicate with thys She and to
aske hir to the Glee Kloob. But
both were scorned, for the Heart of
the Faire Shirley lies within the
Brotherhood of the Leeches, within
the Myghty Breast of John of the
Rhos. And it is knowne that thys
John needs must wryte kwizzes for
the Master Leeches on the daye
which followed the Glee Kloob and
for thys reason coude attende notte
the Shew. But the She of thys Tale
cared notte and in hir swete voice
quod softly, “Who Kerrs?” And the
Kronicler dares notte to comment
for perchaunce Greet IIl be done already.

And here endeth the Fifth Chapter of the Fifth Book.

Obiter -
(Continued from page two)
YOUTH AT THE HELM

After listening to George McCullagh eulogize the youth of the nation and uphold all the accepted Conservative philosophy (maybe it was
the accepted Liberal philosophy, one
has great difficulty distinguishing
them nowadays) I feel that a young
man is a gosh awful important person. We would do better, Mr. McCullagh tells us, if we read more
of Horatio Alger, the great American man of letters (and less of Karl
Marx, Mr. McCullagh implied, (although he did not mention Mr. Marx
by name) and got ourselves
thoroughly imbued with the idea
that it is only a matter of time from
bank boy to president. What memories dear old Horatio brings to
mind. Think of how he stood there
whence all but he had fled .... or
am I thinking of how Horatio kept
the bridge .... no, the boy stood on
the burning deck, that’s it. Not
quite the same thing is it? Any
way, please bear in mind that the
world is before you, waiting for the
sunrise. In fairness to Mr. McCullagh, however, it must be recorded
that there was much meat in what
he said about education. He inti
 

 

mated that many went to college to

ee ee Oe ee ee eee ee eee

 EeeeeeeeeeeeeEeeeeeEeeEeEeEeEEEE——————————— eC
————_—

Franco Making a Noise
Like a Victory

In a recent Lou cartoon the various personalities of Europe are presented in a very clever way. One of
the most striking is a portrait of
Franco waving his arms and shouting that he had won the war. Since
that time Franco has taken Barcelona and made his way right to the
French border. Now he can turn
his attention with a greater concentration of troops—though number
doesn’t matter so much in modern
warfare —to the conquest of the
central part of Spain, held by the
not very-enthusaistic General Miaja.
But the noise being heard from
Spain is still more noise than victory. For Franco still has several
worries: the Germans, the Italians,
the British, and of course the Loyalists.

Not that the Loyalists will win
the war or even hold Franco back
for long; they will probably give in
within a short time, if there is any
significance to the rumours of peace
which appear in the papers almost
every day and are just as quickly
denied again. But the defeat of the
Loyalists does not make them any
less a problem. Successful or not,
the Loyalists are still there, and
must be dealt with in some manner.

Franco has never been known as
a kindly man, but a mass execution
of the Loyalist army is hardly to
be considered. And if they are liquidated they remain as a potential opposition, ready at some time to repeat the Revolution of 1932. The
large number of Spanish people who
supported the government are still
in Spain, and will remain there, a
solid mass of non-co-operation.

But even if Senor Franco is willing to go out of his way to appease
his opponents, there still remain his
friends, Hitler and Mussolini, who
hardly want to allow such a thing.
Whatever he would like to do, there
remain these gentlemen with their
German planes and Italian troops,
and until they withdraw planes and
troops they are a huge obstacle to
Franco’s control.

It can hardly be thought that
Franco likes this interference, now
that its use to him is over. Franco
was ambitious enough to make his
way to the leadership of the rebellion over such more notable men as
Gen. Emilio, Mola, and Gil Robles;
he is hardly humble enough to take
dictation willingly from Berlin and
Rome. But the airplanes and the
troops remain, and they are not
easy to expel.

And then there are the British.
Probably Franco is a little bit undecided whether to consider them a
headache or an ally. If British capital is willing to help develop Spanish mines and turn a reasonable
amount over to the government, it
might be nice to keep the Italians.
But Franco is learning that England wants a quid pro quo for the
non-intervention agreement. and,
| however desirable the British proposition might be, it does make the
Italians mad.

Senor Franco must be a worried
man. Every nation expects to have
his support, and yet not one vies for
it with anything by threats. If he
consolidates his position, probably
they will; but just now he is winning a war, and his worries can
wait. Franco is a coming man.

J. Wi. -G,

(toeseerennseeaeeninmesyensresuteenessaaaneadnaisesien tetas
study medicine who would make
better and happier store keepers.
And that clerking is quite respectable, contrary to mid-Victorian opinion. But the problem is, can such a
reform as he suggests be carried
out in a capitalistic society? But
there now, I must stop. Do you
know that the other night someone
accused me of propagating everything from Communism to Somnambulism? Everything, mind you,
everything. Tsk, tsk. It sounds awful when you consider what can be
propagated. And all I was doing at
the time to inspire this beautiful
piece of investive was asking a few
fellow members of the Effective
Speaking Club (male section) to
support a scholarship campaign.
There is no justice in this world,
—J. B. M.

 

Sl __- CC

|

ee

lf | Were aDictator

I’d pick up the torch that was so
admirably lighted by Steve McNutt
a few years ago in which he campaigned throughout these columns
for a waste-paper basket for the
Library. Steve, like so many of us,
clamored for something which he
never succeeded in getting. Did you
ever try to finda spot other than
the pocket of your coat wherein to
place one of those discarded yellow
or pink loan slips after you had
spoiled one? This writer is among
those who was faced with such a
problem. All of which explains why
the suggestion is made that possibly
a Fudge Sale or a Tag Day might
be held to raise the necessary funds
to buy such a receptacle.

I’'d take a leaf (or several) from
the treatise on “How to Better
Conditions at Dalhousie” from the
book by Malcolm McLeod of last
year. Especially would I consider
Male’s proposal to “Have taxi tickets
issued at the Office for those who
want them and to have the fountains
sprout Bass’ Ale”. Also, “Freshmen
wishing to have essays written will
apply to the Gym where Grantland
Rice, Noel Coward, and George
Bernard Shaw will dispense their
services free of charge”. Then again
“Classes will be held in the Nova
Scotian with an orchestra playing
in an adjacent room, for those craving a musical education. Classics,
such as dancing and mixing cocktails
will be taught for a slight extra
charge. For the Geology Class
there will be an _ extra _ section,
where specimens will be delivered
via trucks to the students rooms and
excavated by a steam shovel’. You
had something there, Malcolm.

I'd instigate a movement to make
some recognition for the valour of
Glee Club audiences. Would it be
too revolutionary to suggest that
anyone who, in the course of a year,
attends four Glee Club presentations
be awarded a Dramatic D?

I’d connive with the Glee Club
executive to see if it is not possible

 

to completely abolish shows and in |

 

 

 

Page Three
LAWYERS PLAY—

(Continued from page one)

attempts to explain how well he was
acquainted with Sir R. Anderson
Squires and Senator “Bill” Duff, Due
to the overwhelming applause of the
hon. members which greeted all his
attempts to explain why he was a
Liberal, this very interesting part of
his speech had to be discarded owing
to the lateness of the hour. The hon.
the Minister of Finance moved adjournment until Thursday night.

When the House reassembled
Tuesday, the main item of discussion
was the Budget Speech which was
delivered by the Hon. the Minister of
Finance, Mr. Amiro. The main feature of the speech was the promised
deficit of “Twenty-three twenty”
which was caused in part by the purchase of one tie for the leader of
the Independent Party. The hon,
member for -C.P.R., (Mr. Rowan
Coleman) who on Monday night occupied the Independent Party benches because “there was no room left
on the Conservative side’, was seated on the Opposition benches Tuesday and took part in a very lively
discussion of the railway problem in
Cape Breton presented by the Sydney-Lousiburg railway. He was
supported by several hon. members
from the opposition seats. After
some fruitless discussion the Hon.
the Prime Minister moved to continue the debate on the Budget
Speech. The house adjourned at
11 o’clock. General opinion was ex
| pressed that this session was not

quite so lively as Monday’s.

After a long recess the House met
on Thursday night to conclude its
business with a discussion of the
Bren Gun Contract Commission Report. Some little stir was created at
the start by the invasion of the Independent Benches by three members
of the Conservative Party, who
claimed to have set up a new Independent Party with a new leader.
Independent Leader Milner refused
to give official recognition to this
“heretical party” and requested the
Speaker to consider them as homeless. Professor George Curtis was
in the Speaker’s chair due to the
absence of Mr. Fraser, who is con
their stead substitute an evening’s | fined todits home with the “Ha”.

entertainment consisting solely of |
witticisms by Mr. Bennet. Just why,
I do not know, but in his “between
the acts” discourses the campus
adjudicator reminds me of Deems
Taylor (minus a sponsor). An uncouth soul, I cannot become passionate in superlatives over the
Philharmonic Concerts on a Sunday
afternoon. Nevertheless, I suffer
through it if only for the fifteen
minute period that brings me Taylor.
Similarly, most campus shows leave
me critical but the local Sage of
the Stage in his appraisals and
materia critica make the evening
worth while.

I’'d stamp a special medal to be
awarded to Gene Morison for her
performance as the Dopey of the
Dishrag in Wednesday’s Glee Club
Show. To handle a role of that type
is more difficult than the usual stage
assignment (even I know that).
That she handled it with an ease
and grace which is characteristic of
too few of the dramatic offerings is
a source of gratification to this
calloused observer. Miss Morison
sacrificed her natural charm on the
altar of the Drama but it was not
without its compensations.

Was appreciated and will not soon
be forgotten but it certainly was redeeming to see her again in street
clothes after the show.

I’d say in a “sotto voce” to Joan
Blackwood: “Everything about you
is as lovely as the features mentioned about the other girls—only
more so your...”

column for me, especially when

deadline finds the copyroad studded

with almost impassable detours,
I’d resign.

 

Girls show more taste in their
clothes than they used to—and that
isn’t all!—Ubyssey.

Between dances: “I’d ask you for
this dance, Babe, only someone is

|already using my car.”—Ubyssey.

She can ,.
be satisfied that her performance |

‘he hon. member from Currybank,
Mr. James Curry, left the Independent Party after a brief stay of five
minutes on receipt of one cigarette
Irom the Hon. the Leader of the
Opposition.

After some considerable delay the
hon. member from Antigonish, Mr.
Doug MacDonald, opened an attack
on the Government on the question
of the Bren Gun contract. Shortly
after this the House was again interrupted as the hon. member from
Shirrefi Hall, Miss Hirsch, took her
place at the Independent Party’s

| table, followed by the hon, member

trum nowhere, Miss Phil Wray.
Miss Wray’s constitutional right to
sit in the house was questioned by
the hon. member from Fredericton,
Mr. Robert (‘laylor) Armstrong,
who stated that much as he regretted
it, he telt that Miss Wray was not
qua.ifea@ to sit in the Huuse, and that
aS a peuaily she shoula be directed to sit on the Opposition benches.
ihe tion, the Leader of the Ludependent Party attempted to defend his
member’s rights, but tinaily asked
the Speaker to rule that if the hon.
member could not sit, she be asked
in a gentlemanly manner to take a
seat in the gallery. One further interruption was caused by the wild
appearance of the Hon. the Minister
of Agriculture, Mr. Bill Russell, who
entered the House attired as a cowboy 1rom the wild and woolly west.

When finally the house was restored to order the debate on the
Contract was resumed. Various

4 , : members spoke on the issue, which
I'd have someone else write this! -yjminated in a noble effort by the

Hon, the Minister for National Defence to defend the Contract. The
Hon. Minister, Mr. Neil MacLeod,
alleged that this was the finest contract ever made by the Canadian
government. His statements were
greeted by wild applause. From the
Opposition side of the house the applause was not so loud as the Bronx
cheers.

At the conclusion of the Contract
debate the House turned immediately
| (Continued on page four)

 

 
 

 

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

February 17, 1939

 

Tuesday

Eight o’clock

 

 

PANS—

(Continued from page one)

melodrama. The play was definitely
chop suey; anything you wanted you
could find without looking past your
nose. Its weakness might be due to
this: it jumped from a picture of
bourgeois life to farce and then to
good old fashioned melodrama in
three jumps and still only got from
A to B in the gamut of emotions.

Miss Lily Hirsch played her part
very competently.. As a young English woman from the lower middle
classes she jumped around, turned
her character from a mysteriously
romantic young thing to an excitable
young lady with the greatest of ease.

The rest of the cast was below
standard. All in all the night was
so disappointing that even the wind
howled.

 

GO WEST—

(Continued from page one)

not necessary that the.candidate be
in his second year at university, so
long as he is in the second year of
his course.

An Exchange Scholar is expected
to be a representative student of his
home university in every way. It
is not necessary that he should have
a first-class academic standing but
he must be a competent student who
will be able to enter freely into the
life of the “exchange” university
without fear of class-room consequences.

Over one hundred and twenty-five
students have received Exchange
Scholarships during the past nine
years. This year a total of thirteen
are enjoying the privileges of the
Exchange Plan. In most cases the
saving in tuition fees more than
balances the transportation costs involved. Applications must be handed
in to the N.F.C.U.S. representative
before March ist, 1939.

CONFERENCE—

(Continued from page one)

a Winnipeg delegate, who at Antigonish this week urged support of
Pan-Americanism.

Dalhousie’s delegation consisted of
Jacqui Cahan, 2nd year Arts, Reta
Harrison, 3rd year Arts, Carley Sullivan, 2nd year Arts, George Tamaki,
Eric Teasdale, Clayton Hutchins, 1st
year Law, Whitney Dalrymple, Edmund Morris, Ist year Arts.

Jacqui Cahan giving a_ seven
minute speech in introducing “Education” pointed out that the task of
the rural school teacher in instructing eleven grades was an impossible
one; that the salaries were insufficient; that incapable teachers are
granted government licenses; that

 

 

 

Girls’ Sports

SWIMMING

During this last week two of the
major events in girls sport at Dalhousie have taken place. In the first
Dalhousie was very successful; the
second was somewhat disappointing
but in no way discouraging. The
first was, of course, the Halifax Ladies’ Swimming Meet, held last Friday night; three girls from Dalhousie, Shirley Kirkpatrick, Reta Harrison and Bette Thomas, out-swam
the other larger teams with a 35
point margin, thus keeping the cup
at Dalhousie for another year. The
total number of points gained by the
Dalhousie team was 66, while the

 

Academy, who won second place, ob- |

tained only 31 points.
In the various events the Dalhousie girls placed as follows:

patrick; 3rd, Reta Harrison.
Diving—1l1st, Bette Thomas.
Breast Stroke—Ilst, Shirley Kirkpatrick; 3rd, Reta Harrison.
Back Stroke—lst, Bette Thomas
Relays,
Dalhousie.
BASKETBALL
The other event of the week was

| recruited

 

PORT

 

SENIOR BASKETBALL TEAM

 

Ces
pre
Pe ps
os pies)
ae

|

 

; : , Front row (left to right): Killem Seaman, Arthur Shainhouse, Rod
Side Stroke—Ist, Shirley Kirk-| [geson, John Martin, Clayton Hutchins.

Back row:

Walter Lawson (manager),

Don Anderson, Alex Hart,

Ross MacKimmie, Mike Smith, Bev. Piers (coach).

 

Tigers Lose

plain and medly—tst, At Sackvilie

With a team for the most part
from the intermediates,

the basketball game with Acadia, the| pajhousie lost to Mount Allison at

first game in the 19389 league.
cause of the inconvenient hour the
spectators were not very numerous,
but they were very enthusiastic at
times, for the game was often fast
and very exciting.

During the first three quarters
Dalhousie controlled the play, but
not to the extent of being able to
obtain any substantial lead over
their opponents; while the passing
was good and their team-work quite
sure, they lost a number of points
through bad free-shots. There was
also very little scoring from fieldshots. Dalhousie was leading, however, at the beginning of the third
quarter, but from then until the end
the ball was controlled by Acadia,

and the score brought to 20-16 in|

Acadia’s favor.

The Acadia team consisted of
Marjorie Edwards (4) Marg. Bradley, Betty Ferguson (9), Dot Ilsley
(7), Babs Harris, B. MacAskill, J.
Crease, Fran Anderson, Betty Llsley.

Those playing for Dalhousie were:
Joan Anderson (8), Carley Sullivan
(4), Joan Blackwood(1), Irene Pentz
(3), Florence Armstrong, Reta Harrison, Marjorie Wood, Peggy Gorham, Inez Smith, Phil Hendry.

The next game in the series is
to be held at Wolfville.

BADMINTON

The Maritime Badminton Tournament will be held next week at
Amherst. Among the girls who will
go from Dalhousie are Maureen Allen and Doreen Dennis who will play

Economics should be taught in all|in the mixed doubles with Ralph

high school grades.

Swetman.

 

LAWYERS PLAY—
(Continued from page 3)

to hear a debate on a want of confidence motion moved by the hon.
the Leader of the Opposition, Mr.
Burchell, and seconded by the hon.
member from Prince Edward Island,
(Mr. McQuaid) both of whom held
forth strongly in favour of dissolving the present Liberal Government
and forming a new Conservative
cabinet. The basis of the attack
was on the foreign policy adopted
by the O’Brien Government. The
Hon. the Minister of Finance replied.
He spoke with great spirit on the

In a final concluding speech by
the Hon, the Prime Minister (Mr. L.
F. O’Brien) the House’s attention
was drawn to the weaknesses in the
arguments advanced by the Opposition. The Hon. the Prime Minister
“dilapidated every point raised by
the Opposition” in an impassioned
and eloquent speech. He maintained
the Canadian government ought to
preserve peace in Canada and unity
of the Dominion above all else. In
the ensuing division of the House,
| the Government was defeated.
Thursday night’s session was high
 

 

 

 

| be a close battle.

 

ly successful, and particular credit
Bren Gun Contract and the Trade’ is due to Mr. O’Brien who gave most

Treaty with the States. In conclu-! of his time and energy for the last
sion he mentioned “ a few words | two weeks to make the parliament a
about Canada’s foreign policy.” The! success. At the close of the Session
hon. member from Ratter’s Cove,’ Mr. O’Brien thanked all the members
(Mr. Hungerford, Cons.) spoke of | who had taken part, and particularly
the Chamberlain Government and’ the faculty of the Law School, who
predicted that the Opposition would helped so willing. Mr. Curtis resoon take the reins of Government. plied on behalf of the Faculty.

 

Be- Sackville last week. While the Moun
ties scored consistently throughout
the game, the Tigers did not hit
their stride until the last few minutes when they more than kept
pace with them in scoring.

Mount Allison gained an early
lead on long shots in the firstperiod
and at half time the score stood 20
to 3 in theirfavour. Thei»; reserves
were sent into the game and were
as effective as the first string.

Outstanding for Dalhousie were
Rod Ideson, who outjumped men
several inches taller than himself
for rebounds and reinforcement, and
Gordon Bauld, who carried the brunt
of the offence.

But for bad luck in shooting, the |
Tigers would have come much
closer, though they would not have |
beaten the Mounties. The return
game at Dalhousie Feb. 18 should

Line-ups:
Mt. A.—Crawford 10, Macleod 7,

 

Tweedie 5, Gardiner 2, Wilmot 11,
Fear 4, Homer, Laidlaw 10, Titus,
Hatsch.

Dal—Ideson, Hart 3, Stewart 1,
Bauld 7, Hutton 2, Lyall 6, Hatfield 4.

Referee—Don Robinson.

 

EXAMS
Exams are just like women.
This statement is quite right—
They ask you foolish questions
And keep you up all night.

—Sheaf. | battle.
| fortunately Martin was definitely off

 

‘Cubs Repulse

Axemen

DALHOUSIE, 33;
ACADIA, 32

A poor turnout witnessed two exciting Basketball Games on Thursday

‘night. In the first period of the
intermediate game Hutton shone,
easily outplaying his opponents.

Acadia made a brilliant come-back
in the second period, and matched
the Dal Cubs basket for basket.
Final score was Dal 33, Acadia 32.
Line-up: Charman 4, Hatfield 6,
Cameron 6, Vair 2, MacKenzie 2,
Anderson 4, Hutton 8, James 1.

Seniors Lose

 

ACADIA SENIORS, 36;
DALHOUSIE SENIORS, 22

 

 

With the rank of the Senior team
broken through untimely illness of
three star players, Hart, Shainhouse, |
and McKimmie, the Cubs brilliantly |
filled in the breach with Hutton, |
Stewart, and MacKenzie. Stewart
turned in a first rate game as cagy
guard. The Y team easily took the
lead early in the period and made the
Dal team mark time. Before the
final whistle of the first half Dal
Tigers broke away and evened the
score. Dal aroused the admiration
of all with their swift and sudden
attack. The next half found Tigers
in the doldrums again. Cal Seaman
and Mike Smith put up a valiant
The last half was all Y. Un
Some learned man recently said his game.

that women make fools of themselves when they imitate men. Of
course!

Line-up: Seaman 10, Martin 4,
McKenzie 1, Hutton, Ideson 2, Stuart
4, Smith 1.

 

 

A student that fails, knows full well its horrors.

pitfalls — consult “College Helps”
translations.

 

 

Keep from the
a catalogue of aids, helps, and

Send for free copy now.

THE BOOK EXCHANGE

Canada’s Book-Clearing House”

370 Bloor St. W.,

Toronto, Ontario

 

   
  
   
 
 

ag

rowacco Ld

 

 

* It has a delight.

ful satisfying flayour—
this new mixture of
choice Virginia and
Burley tobaccos,
blended with Perique
and Latakia. Try it.

  
  

 

   
  
   

Skating Party
Tuesday

Eight o’clock

NOTICES

PRAISES—

(Continued from page one)
and charming for her part; a little| The Mixed Dancing Class
makeup would have been effective. | meet again on Friday in the Lower
She should have been a jealous, dis- | Gym at 7.30 p.m.
appointed old woman who wouldn’t
hear of anyone else having a lover.” | COUNCIL MEETING:

Play Well Chosen. Council meeting. Sunday at 2.30,
In the Grand Cham’s Diamond, in the Men’s Common Room in the
Miss Linkletter gave a more con-| Arts Building.
vincing portrayal of an older woman.
Glynn Firth, continued Professor
Bennet, was the naturally Puritanieal father of the middle class Engish family, but he needed older
makeup. His face “was not lined ; , i
with the care than you would ex- | Women’s Effective Speaking Club
pect from being the father of so will meet at Shirreff Hall next
obstreperous a child as Miss Hirsch.” Thursday evening at 8 o’clock.

 

will

 

 

BAND PRACTICE:

Band practice at 7 o’clock Wednesday night in the Band Room,
Gymnasium.

 

The daughter was the fluttering, ex- |
citable, go-to-the-movies tyype of
ad her excitement on and off like a| _L08t 7eat Medicine were declared
: r excite an Ke ¢é ‘ ‘ . :
tap.” Her scream was most realistic | Sere ~~ three intereaee*)
but she should have led up to it. sports, winning Track, Poowas oo

Hockey. Law won the title in Bas
 

Interfaculty Sport

 

 

 

“Mr. Finck was effective as the ; 5
bed ‘ . e : h ketball and Freshmen in Softball.
myysterious stranger—but perhaps : :
hi . S gine Two championships have been dethere could have been an Oriental |

cided this year: Medicine have repeated their victory in Track and
Law have won Football for the first
time in nine years. The other three
titles have still to be decided. In
hockey, Freshmen with victories over
Arts and Science and Dentistry; and
Medicine over Law and Engineers
have been declared winners of their
respective sections and will now
meet in the finals for the championship.

Law, undefeated in basketball, are
assured of a place in the playoffs
and it only remains to be decided
“You look as though who will meet them.

Mr. Dalton
was rather trying to be a commanding. person than succeeding. But he
added an air of excitement, an air of
myystery.”

touch in his make-up.

The Grand Cham’s Diamond was
a well ckosen play but suffered from
hasty production. There was a question of seeing where the whole play
was going. The window should have
been a substantial part of the scenery because it was an active part of
the play.”

Freshman:

you were poured into your dress.” Interfaculty softball is hardly;
Co-ed: “Oh, thanks.” under way because the time allotted
Freshman: “But you shouldn’t|for it has been used for other
have run over.”—The Gateway. purposes.

@ Now Offered

In the familiar pouch or new
slide packages. A tastier, milder
cigarette made from much
better tobaccos. Try them.

  
 

Ri
> ste

“Sty

a

a

Gy
a

 

 
   
     
 

THOMAS WALLACE

SONS and DAUGHTERS
SIGHT SPECIALISTS
Eyes Tested — Glasses Made
“If You Want to See Well See Wallace’

Y.M.C. A. BLDG. HALIFAX

Visit Our Oyster Bar
Fresh Oysters, served just like
you want them at Boutilier’s
Oyster Bar. Open until 6 p.m.

BOUTILIER’S
BEDFORD ROW

   

 

 

SPALDING

_ SPORT AND
ATHLETIC GOODS

are the finest you can buy

 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
 

AT ANY TIME—

A hot or cold drink, a
satisfying lunch, a delicious Steak, an Oyster Stew, or anything
else you crave, is here
for you at any time.

BLAKELEY’S

43 SPRING GARDEN ROAD

Spalding Representatives
for Nova Scotia

Vhinney

| 456-460 BARRINGTON ST.

———_ |

 

C. P. BLAKELEY, Prop.

 

 

 

    
  
    

J. H. CONN W. T. MARTEL

CONN & MARTEL
BOWLING & BILLIARD ACADEMY

Cor. Argyle and Buckingham Streets Halifax, N. S.

 
