 
  

 
    

 

Halhousi

“THE COLLEGE

=e

 

bien
VOL. LXXI HALIFAX, N. S., MARCH 10, 1935 No. 20

ELECTION RETURNS GIVE Audience Acclaims “Twelfth Night” |DELEGATION OF STUDENTS
PERSONNEL OF SOCIETIES) MEETS LABOUR MINISTER

COUNCIL PRESIDENT (By E. A. LEMIEUX, Special C.U.P. Correspondent)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Bred Bart | OTTAWA, March 7—Student aid through the youth traine RELOn | \Ing program will be the Federal Government’s only immediate
i Vice-President Freshman Representative step towards a system of National Scholarships, according to
Shirley Kirpatrick George Hagen the Hon. Norman Rogers, Minister of Labour. Receiving a
Arts and Science Medicine | delegation of sixteen students yesterday morning, Mr. Rogers
Kay Hicks Arthur Ormiston declared:
Joan Blackwood John Martin | “Tt would not encourage you to think that your proposed
Marjorie MacIntosh ; | system of Federal scholarships will be carried out. He added
Gordon Kinley Dentistry | | that any student aid conducted under the youth training pro(one seat undecided) John Marshall gram would be undertaken as an unemployment measure and
Law | not purely for educational reasons.
“oe vank J h Graham MacDougall | He did not encourage further representation to the Govos Coen Engineers re | ernment. “I question,” said he, ‘the wisdom of applying mass
Robert Walter | | pressure on behalf of a proposal that has been presented to the
| 'Government. It must stand or fall on its own merits.
D.A.A.C, GLEE chp | | Already copies of a brief in favour of National Scholarships
President President _ | — a ‘have been placed in the hands of the Prime Ministers and the
Ralph Plummer Gordon Hiseler | Rath MacQuarrie (left) and Irene Pentz (right) who met and married | Ministers of Education in the various provinces.
Vice-President Vice-President on the Gymnasium stage, Wednesday night, as Olivia and Sebastian, | —- SSS ae ; May Set Precedent
Doug Cameron Freda Cahan respectively. Attending this super-production of the Glee Club ve ae Pls Pleases | While admitting the value and
Secretary-Treasurer Business Manager 'audience of over a thousand who gave overwhelming applause to the, Y need of scholarships the miniater
Jack Charman Jack Reynolds ,actors of Twelfth Night. | By The Gazette Drama Critic |P0Mted to the division of financial
; 5 | responsibility between the Federal
STUDENTS Pre ? In cs Tani id ial George and Provincial Governments. Federal
; ns C d soe ava ee Grecusors aoe Wome ot aid hy tide qmatter woeld lead te
_ : - as +: ‘ 3 Benefactors to be ommemorate is “about something.” For a Play | other requests, and so is unlikely
< : 5 e A iB 4 BE Skits, choruses, awards, sports, dances—all these will be seen ok at A i ie el agen until there is . clearer definition of
President Tuesday as Dalhousie celebrates her annual Munro Day, commem- iit icbainihe g ek cagieugt mais, = government’s real responsibility.
Bart ‘ 68 151 7 6 27 14 46 319 orating George Munro, great benefactor of the University. For the eal idadloging br aomethine, akin! Bc e policy of grants = aid has
MacKcan as ak 145 17 7 8 8 29 41 255 last eleven years Munro Day has been a most outstanding dedi Hoish dation “en ccholinadion ae already brought the government into
ante tiie event, bringing together as it does the threads of the season’s extra- wiles es eee ene complications mes the provinces, and
Kirkpatrick 136 65 8 7 11 19 39 286)| curricular activities in a grand finale. A University holiday, all ||) oy but carries it back Si etek the Federal House, for instance, toReardon ore th 50 84 5 4 14 16 8 181 Dalhousie and its girl come to the gym at three o’clock to make Sdiednadee biitha Geoska th etberl gee vo — Aa ee
OS eee 33 14 1 3 7 8 40 106 oo organized by Peter Nicholson, Douglas MacKean and words all our great theatre has a naka cts Ca orig y
on y. : ;
‘i President } GEES ES . 4 Most. interesting of the awards that. are made on this day are ne fants Sopa eathn cians nee Rogers agreed that there is a
» LE eee 105 70 4 4 19 21 27 #«250\|| the Malcolm Honor Award and the Pan-He!lenic Award. Both seoaniine. and antes Assad beds definite trend towards state scholarTiselar a 405 Bee arte |e 14-27 59 306 awards are kept secret until the time of presentation. The Malcolm shavkas tne eke _| Ships, but he expressed the fear that
Os rae : an . te eee s “Twelfth Night”. Apparently! sch might result in municipalities
Vice-President Honor Award is given to a graduating student, and is the highest Ihe concedes that, along with George ieee) =?
a eats ; , ° and individuals making their contriae 170 130 11 10 14 39 70 437 award that the students of Dalhousie can confer on one of its mem- M.- Cohan,: this fellow Shakespeare,|. g
PAMEDON oi cas. 39 28 3 0 14 9 12 105 bers. It perpetuates the memory of Jimmy Malcolm, a Dalhousie  denlly had someting b Mo did. i Neat A member of the
Business Manager student, who gave his life in an effort to save the life of a drowning “Twelfth Night” is a comedy.| ee. oe ae ae
Reynolds ....... 115 87 8 10 23 32 52 327 a ‘ ; ; lak combines romance and a cer- | ee Hehe Bac he a, er Sweet
Dense Ge ke 94 67 6 4 q 7 35 220 The Pan-Hellenic Award is a Rew award, made this year | tain ioalines| ildealine with what | : : n ge ree ) _
A ee for — be time by the two Women’s Fraternities to the girl in |might be called “ordinary people.” |
President Class 42 who is most outstanding in scholarship and campus ac- | Certainty thar! Ave. na. erent comedy | Council Meets
Piuemier........ 60 149 7 5 27 7 81 2286 tivities. Gold “D’s” for work done in campus societies are made figures like a Falstaff, but it does|
a 69 14 5 6 5 85 52 186 at this time, and the new Council of Students is introduced. contain the old “boy gets girl” Council met Sunday for a threeVice-President | ; Climax of the evening is the Glee Club show, which is shrouded hokum which will never. miss: aE) hour session at one of its most busiCameron ....... 43 120 8 6 30 23 Al 271 in mystery. Rumor has it that original skits, smart dance routines, least two excellent laugh catches in ness-like and least-attended meetREN AEA. Gg one, 72 45 4 5 4 20 45 195 and smooth songsters are being pulled together now to make eat the person of Malvolio and Toby | 28° Absent were Douglas CamSecretary-Treasurer | worthy of Munro Day shows at their best. Dancing until one o’clock Belch; Shakespeare’s best clown; and | °T°™ Zilpha Linkletter, Douglas
Ghavwman .........%1 82 q 6 11 25 44 246 will end the programme. a brilliantly woven plot. All of ma Hahn Ormiston, Harry
TEAM eae < 46 72 5 5 Zi. AS 7 204 hi , ith. neti mith and Don Storey. Council
gees ed MUNRO DAY PROGRAMME bits sieccqertentt ari mapainind (Se PER PER
MMe Sly A dae: fie». STEW RRM Ler 34 Dalhousie Gymnasium, March 14, 1939. ras amateurs, provided your corres-| (1) APpointment of Ralph PlumMacDotigall .....0......s0005- a OW visi were pa oes ssw Gatco aie ace 7\|° 3.00 p.m. Softball, Forrest vs. Studley (3 points toward Munro pondent with as entertaining an er, Arthur Ormiston and John Dickie
Dentistry Arts and Science Day Shield) evening as he has ever had at a|** ® SORE = three to examine
EMRE Oso Vee we lnlatsaae's bos 22 oe ps yer en eo a 107 3.25 Gymnastic Display 7 Glee Club Show. the relative difficulty of obtaining
PEIGMIOEO is ee ela se cies ss PRE ROMNER is 55 Se leice's voy es 101 3.45 Basketball—Forrest vs. Studley (3 points) The occasion for all this exuber- Gold Ds" from the various student
Commerce Blackwood ................. 157 |} 4.00 Badminton—Mixed Doubles ance was the Glee Club’s presenta-|S°@Ues:
OMIM 2 is a ales vials ese 9 MacIntosh ...... ite wale tooe UAE 410 Tug o’ War—Forrest vs. Studley (3 points) tion of “Twelfth Night” by sites! (2) Granting of $65.00, plus cost
I eee ROTOR case viletcecpade’ 66 4.15 Boxing (1 bout) Shakespeare in their auditorium on of room and board, to Sodales
Medicine ee 66)} 4.25 Ping Pong Match Wednesday evening last. On that|2¢!P defray the expenses of a N. F.
ROWMEM 2 Ue hy-oisty Xe tive aces BAM ERIM ys OF Lkiy Vhs Seals dine 0's 117 4.35 Indoor Hockey—Forrest vs. Studley (4 points) particular evening a lot of things C.U.S. debating team, which wilt
PE a inises Vasee discs 111 Charman 103 } b lecti 5.00 Tea Dance were proved: Firstly, sek shiek tour the Maritimes;
WOME Gos crates esses 69 Swansburg 103 { °Y-*ection 7.00 Tndopmiskion peare is your best entertainment| (3) Adoption of the four recomRa Nis ce sleenar ss BN GROMIIERE ook vies cds sh cae 89|1 7.30 Call to order despite the movie propaganda; | ™¢"dations of the Advertising Com7.31 Introduction of the New Council of Students (Continued on page 3) mittee, which read “6 follows:
Grant L athe 7.35 Introduction of the President of New Council of Students cic SEE cele ey eM rey ba Ane (a) That one assistant be ap7.38 Introduction of the President of the D.A.A.C. OFFICERS ... pointed to the advertising manager
O Chi W 7.40 The President of the Council of Students | of each Council publication; and
n inese ar 7.43 Presentation of the Munro Day Shield that this assistant become the adThe phenomenal successes of the T.A5 Announcement and presentation of the Malcolm Honour vertising aici ito of the following
ie Arts and Science committee in pro- Award. year, except in special instances;
curing outstanding speakers for 7.48 President Stanley (b) That each advertising manby Dalhousie promises to be repeated 7.54 Mr. MacGregor Stewart ____ (Continued on page 3) si
he when it sponsors Grant Lathe, Mc- 8.00 Dalhousie Band
i Gill medical graduate, at a Tuesday 8.10 Sing Song . NOTICE
3 noon student meeting on March. 21st. 8.30 . Presentation of Awards | Applications for the following
De Last summer Lathe was a member 8.45 Glee Club Show positions must be handed in te
of an international student delega- 10.30 Dancing

Murray Rankin, 51 Larch Street, on
or before six  o’clock, Saturday,
March 18:
“Gazette” — Editor, Business Manager, Assistant Business Manager.
Students’ Directory—Business Manager, Assistant Business Manager.
|Glee Club—Property Manager.
N.B.—The editor of the “Gazette”
and the Property Manager of the
|Glee Club are paid salaries. For
details about the Business Managers

tion which toured the war-torn dis- 1.00 am. The King
tricts of China and is National
Secretary of the Canadian Student
_ Assembly, the continuation committee of the Winnipeg National ConR ference, of which he was an or: ganizer.
His Maritime tour will include
speaking engagements at Mount AlbE lison and Acadia before he arrives
| at Dalhousie on March 20. While in

 

 

 

FUTURE OFFICERS NAMED

FRESHMAN CLASS
Officers for next year in Class ’42
are Bob Swansburg, President;
| Helen Rogers, Vice-President; Joan

George Corston was elected life
president of the Class of ’39 at a
meeting held on Tuesday in the Arts
Building. Zilpha Linkletter of Summerside was named Life Vice-President. Two more residents of Halifax|Ballem, Secretary; John Fraser,

 

 

 

ee enna

 

LSE

; Halifax he will give public addresses George Corston Freda Cahan and Bernard Graham! Treasurer. On the Initiation Com- | and their Assistants, see report of
and is being engaged by a number Life President of Class ’39 were appointed Life Secretary and| mittee are Kay Hicks, Inez Smith, Zilpha Linkletter the Students’ Council meeting, in
of the city service clubs. Treasurer respectively, of the class.|Ed Morris, and Jack Noonan. Life Vice-President of Class °39 | this issue.

 

 

 
 

 


 

The views expressed in any column of The Gazrctfe ure those of the author; it cannot be
assumed that they represent the opinion of the stivdeni body.

GAZETTE STAFF <i Ru.
Editor: BERNARD GRAHAM - - - - -_ B-5033
f: News Editor: WALTER MURPHY - « «= §B-619]
: Asst. News Editor: BARBARA MURRAY - -_ H-5152
Sports Editor: DOUGLAS LYALL - - - -_ B-2607
t Business Manager: SIDNEY A. GILLIES - -_ B-5487
Exchange Editor: JOAN BLACKWOOD Sipe” ae eG

 

 

PROFESSOR C. D. ELLIS, F.R.S.

A few days ago Professor C. D. Ellis, of King’ s College, University
of London, concluded a ten-day visit to Dalhousie. During his stay here
he earned the admiration of a large section of the student body and of
the faculty because of the clearness of his expositions, the soundness of
his attitude towards science, and graciousness of his personality. For the
interest he took in all the university work which he saw, for his understanding of student difficulties and appreciation of student work, for the
pertinent advice he gave, and for the perspective which he helped some
who met and spoke with him to acquire, for all this there are many who

have a sense of gratitude to him which will not soon be forgotten.

By many people, modern physics is thought of in terms of abstruse
theories expressed in the esoteric formulae of advanced mathematics.
Many of those who heard Dr. Ellis were surprised and delighted to discover that actually this is far from true; the main ideas of science have
‘been acquired slowly and with great difficulty, and yet, as Dr. Ellis proved,
it is possible for one who understands them clearly to express them
simply so that they may be appreciated by any intelligent person who is
interested, no matter how limited his technical training may be.

Dr. Ellis enabled the “science” students to grasp more fully the
mature and importance of their work; to some who are not “science”

‘students he brought an appreciation of the method and content of science,

of the contribution it is making to human knowledge and welfare, of the

irresistible appeal which investigation and discovery have for the true
research worker.

Although his attitude to scientific thought is by no means unique, and
perhaps not even very unusual, yet the way in which it is part and parcel

-of his every exposition, the way in which it pervades his every thought,

is unusual, and makes his attitude his, in a manner which is totally
foreign to those. who merely give intellectual assent to an attitude which
they toss into their mind as just another piece of knowledge. He emphasized that scientific hypotheses are based on assumptions chosen for
their practical, intellectual conyenience. Our theories are merely filing
systems for the information we have so far acquired. The possession of
this attitude contributes to one’s intellectual freedom, and so facilitates the
enunciation of newer, more useful theories. To avoid being enslaved by
theories we must not “file” information which we do not have, and we
must) beware of looking in our “filing system” for information which does
not exist. As Dr. Ellis says, our theories should be as vague as is consistent with our experimental data.

He also insisted upon the necessity for picturing things as they really
happen, in terms of units which the objects under consideration ‘“appreciate”; that is, to imagine the objects as they would “appear” to similar
objects, or to imagine them as they would appear to us, if the size of the
units of time and space which are significant for them, were comparable
to the size of the units we are familiar with in every day life. If, instead
of doing this,;one gives attention to the unimaginable difference in the
‘size of the units significant for these two groups, he fails to “see” what
really happens, and his SORA AOS tend to “stifle thought”, and “compress the mind’.

The ability to think laity is rare, and those who possess it are
few; but’ in comparison with those who can speak clearly to an interested
but uninformed audience, on a subject which requires persistent, penetrating, hard thought, they are numerous. When one of these much rarer
persons comes to our university and gives lucid presentation of topics
usually considered difficult and obscure which are such that they stimulate
and delight the specialist, arouse the interest and provoke the praise of
the expert in other fields, and inspire and enlighten the layman and the
tiro, then we are highly favoured and fortunate indeed.

STUDENT TRAINING IN POPULAR GAMES

Dalhousie, is primarily an educational institution. As such, many
of her students are justly proud of their university, its high standard,
fine reputation, and numerous entrance scholarships. The university’s refusal to make athletic excellence. a basis for awarding “scholarships”
raises Dalhousie in, the, estimation of the students.

_ As an educational institution this university has not ignored student
extra, curricular activities, but has assumed some responsibility for limiting and authorizing these student activities, and has provided facilities
for carrying them out. This is especially true of athletics, in which all
students find interest and yalue, but of varying degrees. For many,
sports and games are part of. the university’s activities, and not something | extra. . Certainly the university implies that it’ sponsers athletics,
and many, of the most active alumni take an interest in university games}
not as an expression of their interest in the present student generation
per Se, but as an expression ; of. their interest in the university.

There are many, in the university with some knowledge’ of ‘our more
popular, games, ‘and. there are, also many of ‘potential’ ability who have
HS played these games, but, who, would like to learn. The ‘training of

se students and the active encouraging of other students to learn more
about games by an enthusiastic, competent, permanent faculty member
would serve the university in many ways.
in _ It would increase the number of students taking a dsitall but profitable. part, in these games;. increase the number of players available for
teams; improve the team play, and’ help the players individually; and
decrease the, proportion of athletic injuries.

It would increase student interest in their activities, and relate these
activities more closely to the university. It would attract the attention
of high- school students of academic ability and with athletic interests.
It would interest many alumni and give them the feeling that the university was not unaware of their interests.

If such a step increased'the number of students interested in these
games, helped develop the esprit de corps of the students, and improved
the student-university relationship, it would be eminently worth while.
‘That Dalhousie’s senior teams would probably be better, and, considering
present potentialities, would probably win many more victories than at
‘present, and so bring favourable, wide-spread publicity, is a secondary
gain, but it is not without significance. This is especially true, if, as has
been alleged, professors have been employed for academic subjects because of the value of the publicity they bring to the university.

It is true that students often do not know what is good for them,
and that their criticism is often mere crabbing. But when most students,
in all sincerity, favour the securing of a permanent instructor for our
‘popular games, and when those most interested in these games give continuous attention to this problem, it seems reasonable to expect that in
‘time the request will be well received.

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

CHiinter’s Afternoon

The hail beats down

And my heart is desolate as the hour.
The icy fingers of the rain

Drum on the window,

Slender suppliant trees

Writhe under the wind’s lash,

And the light fails in the cloud-ridden sky.
Is it not enough that the day

Should weep for its birth?

Must I, too, with despair in my soul,
Suffer ?

I am alone by the fire—

Alone with the crying wind in the chimney.
And yet, I would not have it otherwise.
If, what I offer now, is not enough,
Then will I wait;

And waiting will reclaim

Some of the peace and quiet of mind

I lost

In giving my heart away.

Time, they say, heals all wounds—

So Time will dim this empty ache,

Ease this blind longing

That strikes the core of my being.

And I will laugh—no longer bitterly—
But will recapture the joy of living,

When I am whole.

Obiter

 

One of the ancients has said that!

you know not what a day or an
hour may bring forth. Therefore I
feel that I should not pass any remarks about the result of the
Campus elections. After all, now I
can say what I like, because by the
time you see it, the worst will have
happened, and Studley will have only
itself to blame or thank. Whatever
does happen, I wish the incoming
councillors the best of luck, and I
trust they get some thanks some
time from some student on some
campus.

There are other things, however,
for which we can be grateful at
Dalhousie, which are not contingent
upon the so-called spirit conspicuous
by its absence. A gentleman of the
‘old school’ recently remarked (it is
rumored) that there are two colleges
in the Maritimes to which he would
send his children, Mt. A. and Acadia.
These, he says, still have a high
standard. He would not send them
to Dalhousie or McGill, because there
are dangerous men at those institutions. That I suppose, is the highest
compliment paid to Dalhousie in a
long time. Of course the old gentleman did not say how many of the
Dalhousie men were dangerous, but
I think we can be fairly immodest
in the matter and claim more than
two. (Perhaps he was more definite,
I don’t know.) It would appear that
dangerous men are those who have
queer twisted minds that see things
differently from people of the ‘old
school’. Variety is the spice of life,
and apparently we get quite a bit at
Dal, because no one will deny that
we haven’t a goodly number of the
‘old school’ men here as well Now
aren’t you glad you heard about
that? Think how much more dangerous is our life here at Dal. Think
how much fun you can get out of
danger. In fact, one of the most
potent of the desires of some youths
is to meet up with danger. Particularly if there is a damsel in distress as well. Gosh, I knew I couldn’t
keep sex out of it. Darn Freud!

And now—farewell

I hardly feel that this is quite the
time to be saying goodbye to my
Alma Mater, particularly since I
have yet some time to spend with
her.
Gazette, and.no. better opportunity
will present itself in the future. I
can now say farewell, to all those
beautiful and novel;,things which
make the University, ‘so, unique.
Farewell to the “What’s wrong with
Dalhousie group?” Farewell and
good luck, on the other hand, to

those who have tried to do something |

for Dalhousie. Perhaps I should say
“au revoir’, because I shall be much
disappointed if I never come back.
After all, bad a place as it is
(Continued on page four)

?

But this is the last issue of the |

~ Book of Bunk

1. And so it has come to pass
that the end draws nigh. And many

 

issewe of the Gaz. And the Kronicler has butte thys to seye—that it
feo a goode yere and many thyngs
were accomplished. And perhaps the
moste greet of the deeds were accomplished in the Realm of Sport.
Notte u-pon the play-yng fields, ’tis
true but, rather, by the Mygthy
Tomme of the Tribe Sheehan and
hys cohorts. For many were the
thyngs to be cleansed in the sports
of the Men—and many are the
thyngs that have been cleansed by
the Mygthy Tomme.

2. And Much was the praise
heaped u-pon the players of the Glee
Kloob by alle who attended the
shewing of “Twelfth Night”. And
the Kronicler has thys to seye that
itte was the beste Shew he has seen
in hys Many Yeres in the Lande of
Dal. Butte he woude ask the Friar
to remove the 1939 Bulova from hys
wriste before hys appearance on the
nighte of the Sixth Daye.

3. And Behold! the Lande of Dal
will be ruled during the nexte yere
by a new Council of Wisemen or
Wisewommen. For never in the longe
hystoree of the Lande of Dal have
there been so many of the Faire Sex
u-pon the Mygthy Council as there
will during the yere of 1939-40. And
the Kronicler will seye naught but
he pities Much the Greet Barton of
the Leeches.

4. And there is naught to seye
that has notte been already seyde.
The ruler of the Lande is still Kyng
Karl—the ruler of the Geem is still
the Greet Dane—studes still calle
downe wrath of the Gods u-pon Alle
and Sundry of the Greet of thys
Lande—See-reff Halle still stands—
the Mygthy Tribe of Leeches still
rules the studes and di-rects the
Little Childer of Studley howe and
whatte to do. Whyche is alle as it
shoude be. For ’tis easier to follow
than to lead—and easier to des-truct
than to con-struct.

5. And lest ye Knyghts buckle
on youre armour and ye Ladyes
| brewe wytches’ potions for the Kronicler, thys shrinkyng Wielder of the
Pen doth make ass-u-rance ’twas no
Harme he mean to those whereof he
spak. Rather,, Harme was meant to
that for whych they stood. Ere
wryting Finis to thys, the Final
Chapter of the Fifth Book, the
Kronicler must needs admytte hys
only thought was to speed the passage of tedious tyme for hys readers,
and, perchaunce, bryng attenshun to
certain abuses prevalent throughout
the Lande. Shoude unkynde remarks
of thys and other chapters raise the
ire of the worthyes concerned, the
Kronicler repeats to them the adage
of the cobbler stude—“If the Shoe
| tyts, weare itte.”

And here endeth the Eighth and
Final Chapter of the Fifth Book.

 

MACLEOD, BALCOM, LIMITED
DRUGGGISTS

Halifax, Sheet Harbour and Kentville, N. S.

 

 

J. H. CONN

review the yere in thys, the laste

Cor. Argyle and Buckingham Streets

March 10, 1889

“Ever fallen, Bill?”
“Only for Sweet Caps!”

SWEET CAPORAL CIGARETTES

“The purest fori in which tobacco can be smoked.”

 

 

 

CONN & MARTEL
BOWLING & BILLIARD ACADEMY

 

 

EATON’S

Features the
Lowest Price in Years

 

 

on Made-to-Measure
One Trouser Suits

$2250

(extra trousers 4.00 pair)

 

 

 

@ With the same quality standards of fabrics, style, fit and
workmanship that have won for EATON MADE CLOTHES
=: reputation of Canada’s Greatest Made-to-Measure Suit

alue!

 

@ With a wide range of new spring cloths now ready for your
choosing.

@ With sur designers ready with a group of approved new
spring styles. .

“T

EATON’S—Main Floor.

EATON

MARITS

LIMITED

S
OOS5O9
CoO
Ste: 55s

_. Each year for the last twelve years the Standard Life of
Edinburgh has declareda . ,

 

O52
Cd
2650
5S oe
CO

J
eee
<5

‘2 2
a8
oO
2 5
'?,
cos
a
a
> 2
oes
Se Se5

000
Oo
Coe
eae
25

(x
SS Cx AU
P5525
6S

o528
$5
5

ey YAY

SOOO

xe
5255

CMO?

00D
Ce OOO
OOO o
SoS nacre.

‘ANNUAL COMPOUND
BONUS

addition to the Sum Assured... In 1938 this yielded
for the year to many of the older members over

 

PER $1,000
on the original sum assured
Generous Cash Dividends were also declared
under the Cash Dividend Plan.

 
  

   
 
  
  

Ay vy iy
OXY)

  
     
 

   

ees XO RAY YY AJ
DOOR YY) SOR ROMA AIA RAD Qn SKY ay WKY oy
Rem OU NOR nr re RX XN) Si YY AA XK) XY SONY xr) OOOO OR!
OOOO A  N) xX) OXY BY Kn SONNY x Oy BANS OX OO0O8
;

My AY Vax
setae ** +" WO
AANA x Bu aS ek rs xs % x A ey
x YY AY By
bY eB ; bY RY RT a RX
1B ‘ X it i a
BRAN BS eh | Oy a) RY he A
RON eX 9.8. ON NOOO

ASSURANCE COMPANY /

HEAD OFFICE: 3 GEORGE sTReeT, EDINBURGH
HEAD OFFICE FOR CANADA, 391 St. james Street, MONTREAL, |

  
 
   
 
   
 

XXXVY Rr XY

   
 
     

WY
ae a RY RS
XX es ths,
AY OOOO) YY Oy RY XY
SRR RRR AR ON RRND aK) ony) XY)

YY

 
      
   

DOK ae ys ne
AX YEN OOOO my aN OOOKX Si,

All policies are written — issued in Canada
and claims
admitted and paid by the Canadian Board of Dirsctars,,'

H., P. WEBB, M. Se., Branch M
Rooms, 312/13 Capitol Theatre Building SHALIFAX

W. T. MARTEL

Halifax,. N. S.

           
 
    
  

+
ry
ae:

Ss
| 4
7

oo. 5

March 10, 1939

PLAY PLEASES
(Continued from page one)

secondly, that the myth of “playing
down” to Dalhousie audiences is just
a myth; thirdly that there is acting
talent in the University; fourthly
that we have a remarkably fine
stage; and fifthly and perhaps most
important that we are lucky to have
J. P. Connolly and C. L. Bennet
around.

Somehow or other the illusion
exists that Shakespeare is a matter
of study. Unfortunately study and
entertainment are not usually considered as synonomous terms. More
than anything else it appears from
this corner that, that particular illusion has been shattered on this
campus. When a Glee Club audience
will give four curtain calls to anything, let alone Shakespeare, it’s
something to get down and praise
Allah about.

That the producers and actors
consider Bill a matter of academic
pursuit was perhaps the most fortunate occurrence of all. Certainly
Shakespeare didn’t write everything
into the play that went on Wednesday night. All of which I think the
Bard would have agreed with.
Burlesque and Shakespeare’s comedy
can be combined easily and were.

There have been arguments about
Malvolio’s interpretation ever since
the original production, but I think
Gordon Kinley’s will satisfy for a
while. While Willie didn’t appear to
present him in that light, I think
he’d get a laugh out of it. Malvolio
perhaps offered the best opportunity
for burlesque, and the fact that the
offer was more than accepted was a
fortunate thing.

As Belch and Aguecheek, Bill
Stevens and Bill Harvey were particularly well suited. Their top scene
was ,naturally, the drinking scene in
Olivia’s house. That I fell off my
chair four times was duly recorded
by my public relations counsel.

Ruth MacQuarrie and Joan Blackwood turned in excellent performances as Olivia and Viola. Viola is
perhaps the most difficult role in
the play. Besides being plaintive
she has to have courage and wit, all
of which seem slightly incompatible.
It is to Miss Blackwood’s credit that
the plaintiveness was not overdone.
I’m probably partial because I agree
with the Dictator about Joan.

a a
ee
a

Joe

ROGERS—

(Continued from page one)
existing awards. The University of
Toronto for instance offers numerous
scholarships but Quebec universities
and those in the west have very few.
Rogers suggested that the universities themselves might do more by
providing Exchange Scholarships
and such work as Laboratory Assistantships.

Will Assistant Needy Students

The governments proposed scheme
will provide help to needy students
but on a limited scale. The students
aid project, as it will be called, will
necessitate the setting up of an administrative group in each province.
Grants will be made broadly on the
basis of population but with consideration being given to special needs.
That part which is not taken up by
a particular province will be redistributed or may be spent within that
province by the Dominion Government.

Questioned yesterday afternoon by
the C.U.P., various members of the
House of Commons declared themselves in favour of National Scholarships and urged the continuation by
students of all publicity. Said William Hayhurst:

“You must acquaint the man in
the street with the need for these
awards; the need for research is not
appreciated enough at the present
time.” He urged that publicity be
given to the place occupied in the
world today by men whose education
was furthered by scholarships.

 

Miss MacQuarrie looked and acted
very fetchingly as Olivia. Perhaps
nothing more can be said as her
talents far exceeded the role.

The rest of the cast, especially
George Little, was well up to the
high standard set by the principals.

While the students deserve credit,
the technical end of the production
deserves unlimited orchids. Mr. Bennet’s stage direction proved that
English Professors, besides theorizing on the drama, know a great deal
about actual production. The lighting which was worked out by our
Adjudicator has never been surpassed on the Glee Club as far as my
memory takes me.

Congratulations also to Gordon
Hiseler for his excellent sets and
his

Connolly for

direction.

practical

 

KAYS LIMITED

EXCLUSIVE MARITIME OUTFITTERS

 

 

“BEWARE!

  

| festivities.
rival did!

   
 

|
_ 37 Blowers Street
/

 

  

   
          
  

Send your girl a corsage early for the Munro Day |
Just think if you didn’t and your |

Order early from

— B-7062

Neilson’s

i) THE BEST CHOCOLATE

5 owe Slo

 

 

C.377

 

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

COUNCIL—
King's Students (Continued from page one)
Plan Insurance

 

ager be paid on a 20% commission
alone; and that his assistant be paid
a salary of $25.00 out of the advertising manager’s commission;

(c) That a supervisor be appoint- |
ed by the Students’ Council to ‘ood,
a close check on the state of adver-|
tising in Council publications, and |
that this supervisor is to bring for-|
ward recommendations with a view
to the continued improvement of the |
advertising set-up;

(d) That in addition to its pres-!~
ent publications, the Students’ Coun- |||
cil should publish the Students’
Handbook and Directory;

(4) Awarding of a special Gold
“D” to Douglas MacKean;

 

King’s College students. The details
of the scheme have not been passed
by the student body, but the general set-up has met with much approval.

Team insurance from a regular
company has proven to be far too
expensive, so the King’s plan is selffinanced. It calls for a fund to be
set up by a yearly contribution from
each student. This year’s student
body will establish the fund with a
contribution of one dollar apiece,
but the plan will not start operation
until next year, when a regular levy
of one dollar each will be made *

 

The Dalhousie
Tray

For a graduation gift,
there is nothing more
distinctive than a Birks
Dalhousie Tray.

 

Uses of the skin:

1. Makes your appearance more
natural.
2. It doesn’t show your ribs or.

your insides. |

on the students.

The fund will be kept entirely
separate from other student monies
and administered by an Insurance
Board composed of two non-athletic
students chosen by the whole student body, two from the Students’
Council, and one faculty member.
This board will consider all claims COLLEGE CULTURE |
and hear the evidence, and will have | _“¢'og¢ Bernard is all right I guess, |
sole power to decide whether or not | But Ibsen’s got a better line
the claim should be paid. It will, WAY no, I’ve
have very wide powers, having the| Plays. .- . |

A unique scheme of financing ath-|! Simply haven’t had the time.” |
letic insurance is being arranged by |
sole right to interpret all parts of| Men may come and men may go|
the plan and to decide whether or|B¥t fish go on forever.”
not a claim is eligible. The only|/8 that Shakespeare or Tennyson?
checks applied will be an annual

audit by the student body. Students who have contributed to
The scheme will start in a small| tye Gazette and who wish to know

way with a fairly limited coverage | the number of points they have been
and it is intended that the scheme awarded, may obtain this informa
 

14 inch diameter, with
picture of Macdonald
Memorial Library etched in centre—$8.00.

HENRY BIRKS AND
SONS LIMITED

Diamond Merchants
Halifax, N. S.

»

3. It keeps part of the wind from
getting in.—The Sheaf.

 

never read _ their

 

 

BLAKELEY’S

THE DALHOUSIE
RESTAURANT
Express their thanks to the
students for their patronage
during the present college

||| year.
We have been pleased to serve

 

 

 

 

or. only me: athletic students| tion from the editor, as space did you, and wish you all the best
playing on King’s team. The board not permit its inclusion with this of luck.
will pay up to one-third of the total :
: final issue of the G , ?
costs of an accident providing that er Aces a BLAKELEY’S

 

it does not pay more than $25.00|the fund grows under this system, | on Spams (Carian hoes

on any one claim and that it will; the coverage will be widened and
not consider claims where the total eventually it may include accidents
costs were less than five dollars. If| to any student.

HELP WANTED
We want students to keep their eyes open and look forward to getting
our catalogue of “College Helps”. It shows the way to “better grades’’.
Send for your free copy now.

THE BOOK EXCHANGE

Canada’s Book-Clearing House”
370 Bloor St. W., Toronto, Ontario

 

 

more?”

The National Fish Company, Limited
FRESH FISH SPECIALISTS — :

HALIFAX NOVA SCOTIA

 

 

  

News. of The Home 5
News of The World
*

NEWS WHEN IT IS NEWS
FOR EVERY MEMBER OF THE FAMILY

     
 
   
   
   
 

  

read

THE HALIFAX DAILY STAR

 

 

  
 
 
   

 

 

 

 

“Why doesn't Eddie's
brother talk to him any

 

 

Page Three

* It has a delight
ful satisfying flavour—
this new mixture of
choice Virginia and
Burley tobaccos,
blended with Perique

 

Visit Our Oyster Bar
Fresh Oysters, served just like
you want them at _ Boutilier’s
Oyster Bar. Open until 6 p.m.

BOUTILIER’S
BEDFORD ROW

 

You are invited to inspect the
beautiful new

New STUDIO MODEL
UPRIGHT PIANOS.

We are sure you will like these
lovely new designs.

Yi
456-460 BARRINGTON ST.

HALIFAX, N. S.

A Complete Musical Service

RSet.)
Pe a ee i IS

“Well, his brother not
only borrowed Eddie’s
clothes all the time but
he complained they
weren't smart enough.”

“Well?”

“So Eddie went to Tip
Top Tailors to get more
stylish suits but they
tailored them so perfectly to his measurements, his brother can't
wear ‘em—so he’s sore.”

99

HAND-CUT AND INDIVIDUALLY TAILORED
TO YOUR PERSONAL MEASUREMENTS

BAe LOOP
TAILORS

LIMITED

422 BARRINGTON STREET

TTU139

Roa

 
  
 

a)

 

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

A. & Sc. WIN Girls’ ' Sports

Interfaculty Hoop
Championship

 

By defeating Law by the margin
of one point, 28-27, Arts and Science
became Interfaculty _ basketbal
champions for the year. This was
the second game of a best of three
play-off. Arts & Science had won

_ the first game also by one point, so

that the total margin of their two
victories was only two points. They
came a long way to the championship, having had to eliminate first
Medicine, and then the Engineers, to
reach the finals.

The two teams were as evenly
matched as the score would indicate
and the lead changed hands several
times. Arts & Science took the lead
from Law near the end of the game
and held it despite the desperate
last minute efforts of the Lawyers.

Fraser was the spearhead of the
Arts attack and Mercer starred on
the defence.

For Law: best were Storey, Trites
and Bingham.

Line-up: Arts & Science: Fraser
18, Smith 4, Mercer 3, Grant 2,
Hennigar 4, Perlin 2, Burchell,
Whyte, Maitland.

Law: Storey 4, Trites 13, Bingham
8, Piercey 2, Hanway, Murray.

 

NOTICES

The Newfoundland Club will meet
on Sunday afternoon in the Arts
Building at 2.30.

 

 

Debate:

The Maritime Girls’ Intercollegiate
Debate between Acadia and Dalhousie which was postponed two
weeks ago because of the influenza

epidemic will be held on Monday

evening in Room 3 of the Arts
Building at 8.00.

 

Effective Speaking:

Women’s Effective Speaking Club
will meet Wednesday evening, March
15, at Shirreff Hall at 8.00.

 

Student Forum:

A Student Forum will be held
Thursday, March 16, 12.00 in the
Arts Building.

Lecture:

Stacey Woods, B.A., B.Th., general
secretary of the Inter-varsity
Christian Fellowship of Canada will
address Dalhousie students next
Tuesday and Thursday at 1.30 p.m.
in one of the lecture rooms at
King’s College.

Twelfth Night:

A public performance of “Twelfth
Night” will be given Saturday,
March 11, in the Gymnasium at 8.15.
Council tickets will admit students.
Tickets for the public are 35c.

 

By-election:

There will a by-election between
Bob Swansburg and Jack Charman
ea Monday. Polls will be open between nine and six o’clock.

 

Radio Debate:
Tonight at 9 o’clock Dalhousie vs.
St. Mary’s over CHNS.

 

Bai vs. U.N.B.:

In the Munro Room on Tuesday,
March 21, at 8 p.m. Dalhousie debaters maintain negative of “Resolved that the colonial demands of
Germany should be gratified”,
against a team from U.N.B.

 

   
    
     

Kat Wisely
Eat Well

  

The
Green Lantern

407-409 Barrington St.

Basketball:

The Senior Girls’ Basketball team
will play Edgehill tomorrow in what
will probably be the last game of
the season.

The Freshettes will meet the Juniors-Seniors in an Interclass game
on Saturday at noon.

 

Dancing:

taunro Day will benefit from the |
first fruits of the dancing classes,
conducted by Miss Wray, for three
choruses have been formed: two
girls’ and one boy’s. Undiscovered
talent has been unearthed by Miss
Wray’s scouts and the New York
stage has never seen such legs and
such kicking as you will see on
Munro Day.

Badminton:

The freshette badminton classes
are running off winner and consolation tournaments. In the singles
Jean Chalmers is leading in the winners’ part, and in the consolation
Ruth Walker and Isabel Morrell are
ahead. Isabel Morrell and June
Park lead in the championship)
doubles and Connie Spinner and E. |
Cohen in the consolation doubles.

In the Dal girls’ singles tournament Maureen Allen and Doreen
Dennis have yet to play off for the)

: . i
championship. |

 

$

i
Ee
$3)

$4

Tigers Lose

Final Game
Y.M.C.A., 33; Dal, 25

The Tigers ended the basketbail
season with a defeat at the hands of
the Y.M.C.A. team. Loose play both
on the offence and defence was the
cause of their downfall.

In the first half there was little
scoring, the score at half time being
only 13-9 in favour of the Y.M.C.A.
team. Shortly after the second half
began the Tigers took the lead on
long shots by Martin but soon lost
it again. When they tried to overcome the deficit they abandoned defensive play with the result that
they fell farther behind. Alec Hart
played a good game around the|
basket, scoring three difficult goals. |

 

Line-up: MacKimmie 6, Smith,
Ideson 4, Hart 6, Martin 6, Seaman 3. |

OBITER—

(Continued from page 2)
dangerous as it is, it still has some
pleasant associations. In the words
of a well known song “We did have
fun, and no harm done” (You can
easily tell that it was a popular song,
can’t you?) apart from the occa- |
sional goal post over at Redland. If)
you can’t make sense out of all this, |
just put it down to my legal training. Lawyers, as you know, are
given to saying one thing when they |
mean another. |

 

For example, you|
often hear lawyers speak of a fee |
simple, but anyone who has ever,
paid one knows there is nothing |
simple about a lawyer’s fee. On the |
other hand, they are a great bunch
of fellows, make no mistake about

|
.

that. (I can’t afford to leave the}
wrong impression of so noble a pro- |
fession, dedicated to public inter-|
ests.) Au revoir and bon voyage. |

This is the end, la fin, finis, ende, and |
I don’t know the Sanskrit. Good |
luck. J... oe.

 

 

 

@® Now Offered

In the familiar pouch or new
slide packages. A tastier, milder
cigarette made from much
better tobaccos. Try them.

 

   

w
ey

}
}

March 10, 1939

UU UE NESSIE

 

The Nova Scotia Technical College |

Offers Engineering Courses |
in

CIVIL, ELECTRICAL, MECHANICAL, and MINING

To Dalhousie Students with Engineering Diplomas.

Modern Equipment, Instructing Staff with Individual Experience.

Twenty Free Scholarships of $75.00 each for Nova Scotian Students.

Write or call for Calender or advice to

F. H. SEXTON, President.

When driving

it is always too soon
to take a chance

LIVE AND LET LIVE

 

Published in the interests
of Public Safety by

UTUAL

OF CANADA
Established 1869

 

Head Office, Waterloo, Ont.

 

 

a. are mighty good reasons why the

De Luxe Ford V-8 is a popular family car.
For one thing, there’s plenty of room inside
—for Mr. Canada, Mrs. Canada, Miss Canada

and Junior (with room to spare for visiting

uncles and aunts).
compartment more

vacation-trip needs.

entire family will take real pride in this car’s

smart appearance ..

and richly upholstered interior. They'll

like the deep-down comfort and remarkable

And there’s a luggage
than equal to family

For another thing, the

. its streamlined beauty

quiet which characterize this car’s “ride”’.

But most of all, perhaps, they'll like the
Ford V-8’s low price and surprising economy.
That brilliant V-8 engine squeezes extra
miles out of every gallon of gasoline! In fact,
owners from every province report averages
of 22 to 27 miles per gallon of gasoline!
Why not see your Ford dealer today for a
thorough demonstration of “The Quality
Car in The Low Price Field”! Ford Motor
Company of Canada, Limited: Ford, Mercury,
Lincoln-Zephyr and Lincoln Motor Cars.

TOP-VALUE FORD
FEATURES

* STYLE LEADERSHIP
* 85 HP. V-TYPE 8-CYLINDER ENGINE
* HYDRAULIC BRAKES
* TRIPLE-CUSHIONED COMFORT

* STABILIZED CHASSIS
* SCIENTIFIC SOUNDPROOFING

DELIVERED PRICES
in HALIFAX begin at

$892 for Ford V-8 Coupe
$955 for De Luxe Ford V-8 Coupe

License only extra. Prices include engine oil
conditioner, oil bath air cleaner and many

other items of desirable equipment. Wide

choice of body types and colours.

 

 
