 

*
f Ba
aS
Pitty
ty - )
a
ae
an
“= 5
" ~~

  
  
    
 

_ anyway,)

BA

Mock Parliment Next Week

 

Replete with traditional pomp and
ceremony Dalhousie Law School’s
ancient and honourable (ancient,
Mock Parliament will
commence the 1939 sessions in the
Munro Room of the Forrest Building Monday evening, February 13.
Two more sittings will follow, on
February 14 and February 16.

Following the entry of the Senate
into the Commons Monday night
Ptime Minister Laurence O’Brien’s
Speech from the Throne will be read
by the Governor-General. The oppointment of His Excellency has not

' yet been confirmed but it is believed

the post will be filled by either Hon.
Gordon S. Harrington, late leader of
the Provincial Conservative Party or
Hon. Lauchlin D. Curry, Minister of

Mines for Nova Scotia. Both these
- men are distinguished graduates of

Dalhousie Law School.

sion will be followed by the presen
tation of the Budget by Hon. D. J.

 
 
 
  
 

T
i

-f
5 rude é

   

~o. Ae
Lae
e.
Re

oS
| f a
., P ae

4

  

‘
; oa
.
";
rt
Cig
5

:
= ’

é
bat hs
at
o
*
Se
¢

4

he .
ia

‘righteousness and peace. It is the
duty of all of us to help in the realization of these ideals — then will

e the Kingdom of God on earth.

‘Work of Irish Nation-|
alists or Communists ?

   

saat

fe
_ time when humanity will enjoy

Amirault, Minister of Finance. High
lights of the Budget are said to
- include increased subsidies to coal

_ \

mining in Cape Breton, greater

allocations to national defence. and.

Talking, and How!

 

  
 

Rumor Challenged

  
 
   
 

 

There is no truth in the report
at _ the forceful discussion at
Council meeting Tuesday night led
directly to the blowing of three fuses,
the Gazette learned yesterday, as the
result of careful investigation. Even
the fact that Council was having its
picture taken at the time is no proof
that it is directly responsible for the
matter, which contradicts the rumour
that the fuses blew to avoid a more
expensive camera breakage. As
George Hagen said, “If the fuses
can’t take any more than that, it’s
their own fault that they were blew,
or maybe it’s blowed.”

It is understood that Council intends to take action against the next
person that asks them “Where was
Council when the lights went out?”
or makes any remarks about Council
being “more in the dark than usual
Tuesday night, get it?”

Rabbi Gives

 

Religious Beliefs

Rabbi Simon of Halifax continued
the series of addresses on “Credo”
by giving his personal beliefs on
Thursday in the Chemistry Theatre.
“My personal belief,’ said the
Rabbi, “is that God wants us_ to

spread His teachings and learnings

to the world at large, whether by

We have our free will to act—
nothing can take the place of the individual. God is everywhere is the
Jewish belief and ‘Ye shall be holy
for I the Lord thy God am holy.’
All of us agree that there will be a

Tand most of the Jewish faith ac.

owledge the value of Jesus Christ
the extent of spreading the
wledge of God to mankind,” connn, President of the S. C. M.,

ihe ¢

 

unemployment insurance. Political
observers believe that Conservative
Leader Rt. Hon. Wilfred S. Burchell
and Independent Leader James B.
Milner will unite their attacks on
this latter issue.

At the third session Thursday
evening the main debate will be
Canada’s Foreign Policy and the
railway situation following which a
division of the House will be taken
and Parliament prorogued.

It is reported that the Liberal
government under, Prime Minister
O’Brien will again be defeated in
division as last year. Already, it is
said, Conservative Leader Burchell
has a following of more than 70 and
this out of a total membership in
the House of approximately 90.

The Prime Minister’s annuncement | the Wurlitzer gave rise to a discus-|}5 probably the most absorbing kind
of his cabinet has resulted in floods | sion of student interest in Glee Club of motion picture, and add to that

 

HALIFAX, N. 8., FEBRUARY

7 LE LINES DRAWN) Council Meets

 

The Students’ Council met twice
during the past week. Absent from

lthe granting of $000000.00 toward | Sunday’s meeting were Ralph Plum
mer, Bob Walters, Phil Christie, and
Doug Cameron; from Tuesday’s
meeting: Shirley Kirkpatrick.

On Sunday business was disposed
of as follows:

1. Minutes of the previous meeting, and reports on the proposed
Dalhousie skating party, and on |
presentation to R. B. Bennett were
received.

2. A reply to the letter sent to
the Senate was received announcing
that the gym is to be available on
Sundays from 1.30 until 5.80 for
practicing.

38. Athletic needs of the students
were discussed.

4. Mr. MacKenzie reported on the |
student forum. The recommendation |
made at the forum with respect to

 

 

of letters from Liberal organizations | productions and in dancing.
Tabling of the report of the Bren/| protesting’ the appointment of more

forced to bribe several Conservative
members with cabinet positions in
order to fill the various ministeries.

Speaker of the House this year
will again be Leonard Fraser, a Dal
| housie Law graduate.

Stu

_ being good Christians or good Jews.

 

 

Delta Gamma organization moved
a step forward last week with the
creation of the Women’s Effective
Speaking Club. Meeting at Shirreff
Hall on February 2nd, twenty girls
learned the fundamentals of the
mechanics of public speaking as
taught by Miss Dorothy Swaine, a
graduate of the Curry School of Expression, Boston.

The proposed course will teach the
proper manner in which to introduce
a speaker, act as president of a club,
propose a toast, and conduct a business meeting. Breathing exercises
and the hand expressions will be

given in preparation for short
speeches that the members will
make.

The next meeting on February
22nd at Shirreff Hall will teach the
duties of toastmistress and the
methods of proposing and responding
to toasts. Names of additional members will be welcomed by Maureen
Allen and Jacqui Cahan. Among
those attended last week’s meeting
were:

5. Motion that Henry Reardon ke |

Gun inquiry during the second ses-| than three-quarters of the ministers. | asked to give a report on the gross Wk of cinema achievement as well
[t is reported tha Mr. O’Brien wee

and net earnings of the Wurlitzer |
at the next meeting was passed.

6. Motion that Glee Club be
authorized to employ an orchestra
after shows was defeated 8 to 3.

7. Motion that the Glee Club be |
authorized to employ an orchestra
after the next show, that no dancing |
be had afer “Twelfth Night” in order
to discover what interest students
have in dramatic productions, and
that Glee Club present a musical
show on Munro Day was passed.

8. Proposal to separate the musical and dramatic parts of the present
Glee and Dramatic Club, and to
unite into one organization the band,
choral society, and orchestra was received. After a brief discussion
further consideration of the matter
was deferred until another meeting.

9. A request for $62.55 for
transportation of delegates to the
Martime Student Conference was
granted on motion.

On Tuesday the Council appointed
the Munro Day Committee, and the
Alumni Relations Committee. On
motion, consideration of the proposed Music Club was held for another
meeting. Permission was given the
Glee Club to transfer $50 from the
amount voted for “Ali Baba” to
the musical expenses of “Twelfth
Night’.

A report was received from the
Business Manager of the Gazette
showing that the returns from ad
Jacqui Cahan, Carley Sullivan,| Vertising have been to date $209 less
Mary Doull, Julia Swanburg, Jean than the amount expected for the

Macdonald, Marjorie

Lily Hirsch, Margaret
Marney Prowse, Suzanne Ramsay,
Margaret Drummie, Freda Cahan,
Zilpha Linkletter, Joan Young, |
Penny Patchell. |

‘

|
dents in New York

The wilds of New York will hold
no fears for the timid Dalhousian
who attends the World’s Fair next
summer, if tentative plans of the!
Fair Committee are concluded.

Consideration is now being given
to the inclusion of a college department at the Fair. It will be in the |
Communication Building and will |
provide a meeting place, guide service, information bureau, and college
exposition for any university student.

So, if you like this plan, if you

 

think that it will help you to find

your way around, or if you don’t,
your reaction and criticism will be
welcomed by the New York World’s
Fair Committee—c/o the Dalhousie
Gazette of course.

Graham, |

MacIntosh, | S4@me period when the budget was

presented. It was decided not to
carry advertising on Glee Club programs in the future, and to have
the programs memiographed.

A report on the Wurlitzer showed
net earnings of $27.48 to date.

'Gott Strate das

Lambeth Walk

It was demanded by the official
newspaper of Hitler’s brownshirts
that the Lambeth Walk be banned.
The brownshirts are no sissies, bu‘
they weren’t quite strong enough to
tolerate the Lambeth Walk. Now
that we have demonstrated our superior endurance by putting up with
the so-called dance longer than the
Germans could, to their great dismay and chagrin, the necessity of
continuing to dance -the dismal
drudgery no longer remains.—The

 

Gateway.

 

| an odyssey of enchantment in which

| of the thousand and one nights live

 

  

Ss

 

10, 193

Film Society Presents

“Yellow Cruise”

On February 10th the Film Society will present “Yellow Cruise” in

 

the Gymnasium at 8.15 p.m. It is | C

the story of the Third Citroen-| “Between Soup and Savory’ (the
Dubriel expedition across Centra] | Delta Gamma Connolly Shield offerAsia. There is an original Sym-|ing for Wednesday night) is proba
> J < , > » 93
phonic musical score and the accom-| bly the best play I’ve ever seen”,

panying narrative is in English.| Sid Miss Gene Morison, in an inter-|
The story begins at Syria and| View last Tuesday. “Certainly it’s
follows through Bagdad, Persia,| the best I’ve ever been in, and I’m

_deeply grateful to those who cast me
tains, the Gobi desert, Tibet, Mon- for the part of the kitchen maid,”
golia, China and Indo-China. It is| She added generously. “Of couzse,
it is the best part in the play, and
undoubtedly I was the best choice.
You see it’s a matter of being able
to appreciate things so intelligently
that marks me out from the others.

Afghanistan, the Himalaya moun
 

the fantastic and exotic splendour

again. The people of a dozen lands,
their language, cutsoms, play, work
—everything is here recorded in
thrilling photography and authentic
sound, supplemented by vivid musical score.

Because it deals with life itself j

than most. It must be that I am
more sensitive than other people.
|The character I play Wednesday is
|a poor little servant, unhappy because she has never had a ‘grand
passion’, to employ a French expression. You might wonder that I, who
have always been so popular, can
play such a role.” Your reporter
as an invaluable record of how one | really didn’t wonder, because he
half of the world lives. | could see that Miss Morison was a

“Yellow Cruise” is a picture that | very expressive type of person, able
should not be missed by any of the | Probably to assume any character.
members of the Film Society. | Une look at her flashing eyes and
“Riches of the Sea” a special short, | superb beauty convinced him of that.
filmed at St. Margaret’s Bay, will|
also be shown on this program.

Shield Debates

That the North American Conti
the fact that it was made by artists
so that it might become a lasting

 

However, Miss Morison continued;
\“The truth is that I appreciate her
| position all the more since I know
what she is missing. Besides, my
wide experience has given me a deep
and sincere understanding of human

nature, which is very useful to meat
nent should be given back to the

, ; te oe I have lost myself so comIndians ney that swing in aie is sua | pletely in my part that I even forthe highest form of musica enter-| pot to... .. Oh, But that’s. <tiother
tainmment were the decisions reached | story, and I should be delighted to
at the end of two Bennett Shield | +41) jt to you some other time, when
Debates held last Tuesday and

: es I am not quite so busy,” concluded
Thursday noons, respectively. The) yisg Morison, indicating by her tone
Freshmen and Junior Class teams

) that the interview was over. Just
were awarded the verdict over the)

: cA as your reporter gathered up his
ee an ees es 8°S overshoes, pencils, notebooks, and
on both occasions were 1 TOoLessors| other impedimenta of. a newspaper
C. L. Bennet, John Mills and Burns

man, Miss Morison added that she
Martin. The Freshmen and Juniors must not forget to give credit to Dr.
will compete on Thursday, Feb. 23,

; Hayes, who was doing such marveli ee oe oe toes work in helping Miss MacLean
: tees ? ae re Awe a and Miss Prowse with their parts.
were urray Davis. an owena| _..
Benson. The glorious defeated were note brought yur Separer Wo Ee
Charlie Doyle and Marjorie MacIn- | realization that of course there were
tosh. The bright spot was Charlie other people in the cast too, and that
Davies \ateument. that the achite they might like to say something for
man’s civilization had made the In-| *¢ a But they proved to be
dians lazy, and that now it would| VetY disappointing, since they were
be impossible for a group of lazy
Indians to govern efficiently 450,000 of their fellow-men, especially

Scholarships for
since it has been proved that 18 Graduate Students from
Halifax (and presumably not lazy) |

men are unable to govern efficiently | Dominions

70,000 other citizens. The British Council have decided
The victorious Junior team was) * Offer, in respect of the year 1939
made up of Douglas McKean and| 40; four Post-graduate Scholarships

Jean Macdonald, while Lloyd Dal-| ‘tenable for one year commencing in

 

 

ton and Marian Westhaver put up October 1939 to selected graduates |

a gallant fight for the sake of of universities in the Dominion of

swing and the Senior Class. High- Canada, the Commonwealth of Aus- |

lights of the Thursday debate were ‘Talia, the Dominion of New ZeaMarian Westhaver’s remark that|/and, and the Union of South Africa
even Brahms and Co. held jam ses- who desire to carry on in the United
sions, and Douglas McKean’s fear|imgdom courses of study or re
 

 

 

tte

 

I always did appreciate more things |

 
     

 

 

No. 16

Intimate Thoughts Revealed?

Reporter Back Stage

obviously overawed by Miss Morison’s more magnetic personality, and
murmured only that they liked the
play too.

Fortunate as Delta Gamma may
be in having so brilliant a star as
Miss Morison, yet English 9 is equally fortunate in its cast for “The
Grand Cham’s Diamond”, as we were
convinced after listening to the
words of the play’s luminaries,
Lloyd Dalton and Zilpha Linkletter.
Mr. Dalton betrayed an admirable
reticence on the subject of the play.
“After all,” as he said, “the play is
a mystery, and it wouldn’t be quite
fair to the other players if I were
to give the plot away, would it?

However, I can tell you about my
own part.” Mr. Dalton’s eyes closed
for a few minutes, as if he were
savouring the full possibilities of his
role. Then he continued; “Drama
has always meant much to me, but
up to now I have had only comic
roles. Not that they haven’t called
for intelligent interpretation, but one
does tire of being the perpetual fool,
doesn’t one? That’s why I like my
present part so much. It’s so romantic. Don’t you think I’ll make
the perfect lover type?” Fortunately, circumstances, in the guise of
Zilpha Linkletter, intervened, and
saved us from answering this
question.

Miss Linkletter is very enthusiastic about her, part in Wednesday
night’s production. “You know, this
will be my very first time on stage,
and naturally I’m rather thrilled
about it, although I can’t say that
my part as the mother really gives
me the room for self-expression that
I feel I need. But then, all artists
are cramped by the conventions of
their environment, and I suppose it’s
excellent training for me. I think
the nicest thing about my part is
that Glynn Firth is my husband. So
satisfactory, isn’t it?”

At this point, Donald Finck and
Lily Hirsch, her cohorts in the play,

after having tried for the last

twenty minutes to interrupt the flow
ing discourse of Miss Linkletter’s
words, went stark raving mad, and
amid the wild screams of the poor

_unfortunates, your reporter escaped

 

to the milder bedlam of the Gazette
office,

Convocation

Week Planned

Valedictorian Elected

 

Glynn Firth was elected Valedietorian of Class ’89 at a meeting of
the graduating class held in Room
21 of the Arts Building on Tuesday.

| Others to participate in the closing

day exercises will be Betty Pearson

of the effect swing music would have | Search in subjects which are of ;as Prophet, and Freda Cahan, Hison the children “we are bringing social, economic, or political value, | torian,

and which may be regarded as of
Dominion, intra-Imperial, or inter| national importance.

In a Jam |

Miami, Florida — Among the in-|
jured at the New Yeor’s Day foot- /ment will be dependent upon the
ball game at Miami’s Orange Bowl | nature of the course of study or rewas a seventeen - year-old co-ed) search followed by each scholar.
cheer-leader, who, carried away by| These scholarships are open to
enthusiasm, got into the thick of! men and women.
things at the wrong moment, and Applications
was carried down the field in a| President’s office not
“steam-roller” play. She is reported | April 1st, 1939.
to be suffering from shock. No
doubt,

into the world today.”

 

‘Henry, in the President’s office.

 

The Convocation week committee,,.

|which includes Harry Smith, Glynn

The value of each Scholarship | Firth, George Corston, Betty Peareat be £300. The method of pay-|son, and Zilpha Linkletter, an
nounced a_ tentative programme.

| Highlights are a Bargain Basement
| Dance to open the week’s festivities,

should be in the' on Halifax Harbour, via any Halifax
later than, yachts which may be procured or

a picnic at Hubbards followed by a
wiener roast and dance, “vachting”

_the Dartmouth Ferry, two theatre

For further information see Miss’ parties,

a formal at the Yacht

| Squadron, and the Convocation Ball.
¢
i
i

 

 

   
 

_ mssumed that they represent

The views expressed in any column of The Gazette are those of the author; it cannot be
The views expressed ee opinion of the student body.

GAZETTE STAFF

   

| Editor: BERNARD GRAHAM - - - - -  B-5033
_ News ‘Editors WALTER MURPHY | _ - B-5191
~ Asst. News Editor: BARBARA MURRAY - - 4H-5152
Beer eee: DOUSDNEY A GILLIES . _ _B-5487
change Editor: JOAN BLACKWOOD - - —B-9746

     

Exchange Editor:

| CONFERENCES
(Contributed)

In another week the first Maritime Conference of University
Students will be drawing to a conclusion; the results will
depend upon the choice of delegate from each university and the
fidelity with which each participates.

The attitude of many Dalhousie students toward the Conference has not been praiseworthy. It has been all too evident
that interest for many is more in the opportunity of a trip
than in the individual contribution that each can make. _

Apparently this attitude was recognized by the organizers
of the pre-Conference study. One said, “Jt will be a good trip,
but you must attend the study groups”. Another said, “Come
to the study groups and see if we can’t put Dalhousie on the
map.”

‘Any student who attends the study groups simply to
qualify for “a good trip” should not be sent to the Conference.
The attitude is such as to make one skeptical of the value of
conferences. Even if there is not the reward of “a good trip”,
study groups can be profitable. But the first organizer has
rightly judged that it takes more to interest Dalhousie students.

The hope of the other is that the Conference will “put
Dalhousie on the map”. Of course it is not the best thing to
be complacent about Dalhousie’s place in the world, but it would
seem that a long line of distinguished graduates has put the
university on the map more successfully than will a conference
to which delegates who are expecting a good trip are sent. But
the events of next week will tell the tale.

 

GLEE CLUB AND WURLITZER

It is not easy to decide what is the precise function of each
student organization, whom it should serve, or what support it
should merit from the student body. It is much more difficult
to determine what part of the money secured through the
Students’ Council Fee should be spent on any one activity. The
Students’ Council is responsible for solving more or less, this
second problem, and for solving it in a way that will meet the
approval, in part at least, of a goodly number of students.
While precedent, or the persuasive skill with which some
student presents a request for money may determine frequently
the way the funds are spent, yet it is sometimes necessary to
consider our first problem of the function and appeal of a
student organization.

Any organization should be of service, first and foremost,
to those who are interested in it directly and who wish to take
part in its activities. Next, its activities should be so modified
that those who are interested in it, but do not wish to share
in its work, are served. Finally its activities should be so
modified and limited that, without interfering with its first two
services, it may be of use to as large a number of the whole
student body as possible. Thus, a dramatic club should provide
first for those who are interested in drama and who wish to act,
secondly, for those who are interested in drama, who enjoy
watching plays, but do not wish to act; and finally, it should
meet such of the needs of the general student body as are not
inconsistent with its first two functions. Similarly, the rugby
teams should meet the needs firstly of those who wish to play,
secondly of those who enjoy watching rugby being played. Any
service that rugby games or dramatic presentations can offer
to the whole student body by providing the excuse and the
occasion for a pleasant get-together for a social gathering, or
for a dance is, and should be, strictly secondary, and should be
countenanced only when, and in so far as, it does not interfere
with the more natural and more important functions of these
activities.

For some time now Glee Club shows have been followed
by dancing. The reason for this, it is assumed, is that a large
turn out of students is desired at these shows, and it seems that
it cannot be secured by the shows alone. If this is true, then it
seems that this fact should be acknowledged, but not regretted.
It does not seem that anything is actually to be gained by
having a large audience, a considerable group of which have no
real interest in the show.

If a majority of the students want student dances, and if
the other activities which the council considers more important
and more valuable do not use all the available funds, then it
would seem wise for the council to sponsor and finance student
dances.

It may be a good thing to have student dances and dramatic
shows the same evening, on the same program, but it does not
seem so to us. We believe that it causes both to suffer, but
more especially the dramatic presentation, which, under present
arrangements is considered the more important. For if actors
are to entertain an audience which is not primarily interested
in acting and in the drama then they must (and sadly enough
they do) give a program which differs from that which they
would present to satisfy their own interest in acting and to
please those who enjoy drama.

If those who attend a Glee Club show find that, after it is
over, they have the time and inclination to dance there is no
reason why they should not, if they can have the music. But
there is no reason why the music should be provided at the
expense of the council.

_ We believe that the assumption under which the council
purchased the Wurlitzer—namely, that they were responsible
for providing music for dancing after Glee Club shows—is false.
For dancing in the gym the machine is practically useless.

‘When it was purchased the council realized that almost every
_ one would prefer to dance to an orchestra, but they also believed

that the machine would be “good enough” and that the money
saved and earned by the Wurlitzer would justify the investment.
And the council’s job is not to give the students whatever they

ee Se —

DALHOUSIE

LETTER

To the Editor:

Your breezy little paper strays into my home from time to time and
I am greatly entertained by its mixture of fun and seriousness; young
men and maidens from the College
also wander in as they pass the
door and I am even more entertained by the stream of small talk about
the College and its doings.

From bits of the conversation
which may, or may not, be addressed to me I gather that the little coed has her troubles as well as her
fun,

She is beginning to wonder why
the men she meets outside the College are so much more courteous
than her fellow students. Is it because of the mere fact of co-education? Surely not! After all, she
merely went to college to learn how
to prepare herself for her own future life, though she knows there
are a few who have a somewhat different idea!

She was taught to be courteous;
why, oh why, weren’t the boys given
the same start. Perhaps they were,
only they have forgotten. The little
co-ed says (mind you I only heard
this in passing): “All mother’s
friends take off their hats to her;
mine only say ‘Hi’ or ‘Hello’ and
sometimes they only sort of growl!”

I hear them say, too, that the
boys not only break their dates if it
suits them, but (most humiliating
of all things) forget them!

Now, I thought to myself, there
must be something wrong here! If
these little co-eds have not only’
done nothing to deserve such treatment but have shown their appreciation of favours received by entertaining their fellow students in their
own homes, why should they be
treated this way!

I began to think about it a bit.
We all know that students are very
important people (they think so,
anyway!) Co-eds are important,
too, and deserve some consideration,
so don’t let us be too one-sided.

Now I am going to be serious,
boys—you have been warned! Nearly everyone likes to be popular—
there are no surer ways to it than
these three: Courtesy, Friendliness,
and Kindness. Some people inherit
these gifts, others are taught them,
and the remainder may acquire
them.

Courtesy and kindness are like
good oil that makes the engine of
your car work smoothly; they make
life run smoothly for everyone with
whom you come in contact. Try it,
boys: it takes very little extra time,
and no money!!

It is not the exclusive attribute to
Royalty, Nobility or Education.

The most courteous man I ever
knew was a poor woodsman who
could neither read nor write.

I honestly think between  ourselves, boys, that most of the things
you do to worry these little co-eds
are done from thoughtlessness; you
don’t realize the importance of courtesy in small things, and that matters quite a lot!

I can hear some of you snort and
say, “some of the girls we know
haven’t heard very much about this
word Courtesy!” Perhaps not, but
you can teach them, and it is surely

 

true that “Courtesy breeds Courtesy”’.

Anyway, the girls who do know
something about it will be a lot happier if you try it. One last word:
these three useful steps to happiness — Courtesy, Friendliness, and
Kindness — will never be old-fashioned; your grandchildren’s grandchildren will still be using them, we
hope.

Personally, I think the boys are
pretty nice, and I have no complaint, but then perhaps it is only
my old grey head that commands |

GAZETTE

Obiter

Having recently given some consideration to problems of socialism
I have reached a startling conclusion.
People will have to work in a socialistic state. It is appalling. I
shudder at the very thought. I can
see now some red bearded Russian
pointing a long thin accusing finger
at me some time when I am about
to move my king out of check. He
is saying: “Sir (or possibly Comrade) that is not work. Work is the
life blood of the State. Avaunt with
your time wasting bourgeois pleasures.” Of course that is also a
source of admiration of the socialist
system. In such a system I have no
doubt work will be respectable. But
I shall strive to make loafing respectable too. After a few years in
a socialistic state there will be much
more time for loafing (I hope) and
one should be prepared for it. Adam
Smith I think it was who started
all this propaganda about work. Or

 

perhaps it was Calvin. Or Knox.
Anyway it was some good old
Scotchman. I haven’t the slightest

doubt the legal profession will find
some way out of it, but as yet I
have not discovered it, so the best I
can do is spread counter propaganda
about leisure. Possibly that is where
the whole thing started. Comrade
Smith objected to the leisure classes.
Or Comrade Calvin. Or Knox.

With work made respectable, of
course, more people would try it
than do now, and perhaps like it.
But in the mean time, surely the
dear old socialists would do better
to put the soft pedal on this work
theme, rather than to frighten away
good prospective converts because
they like to relax with a good book
Sunday afternoon.

On the other hand, if one were
fortunate enough to get a job as a
University professor, or something,
one could laugh in the face of the
esteemed and honourable comrades.

* * #

“Yet once more... ”

It will be remembered that last
fall Messrs. McKean and Nicholson,
farsighted as they are, voted against
buying a Wurlitzer. Today they
gloat in triumph. Think of it, two
Studley students uninfluenced by
medical or legal thought, voting
against the nickelodian, two (or perhaps three) against the world. The
Council, that is, the rest of the
Council, admit their mistake. Now
the problem arises, what will replace
that miserable machine? (It was
miserable, I think you will agree,
apart from its effect on my amours.)
Life is like that, you no sooner get
rid of one evil when you are faced
with another: what is to take up the
space formerly occupied by the evil
removed? Or is that too metaphysical? Some people hold the novel
view that without the dance, drama
would die. Some like a nice combination of drama and dance. Others,
dear optimists, think we could stand
more of both. The latest word from
the front is that we, the people, are
to be tried (and I trust found not
wanting) with Shakespeare. ShakeSpeare, for the purposes of this
experiment, will be isolated. He will
not be followed by any dance music,
Wurlitzer or otherwise. If we can
stick him, and he can stick us, then,
and only then, will it be known that
we have some aesthetic appreciation.
Personally I doubt it very much.
Suppose on the other hand, we cannot stick Shakespeare. Will we have
dances the next time? In terms
of modern symptom-treating capitalistic politics, will art be subsidized by the devotees of swing ?

—J. B. M.

respect, etc., or maybe it inspires
awe; I hope not.
Yours sincerely,
An Older Friend.

i en ey
may fancy they want, but rather to meet as many of the more
important needs and wishes of the students as the finances

will permit.

In the face of the inadequacy of the Wurlitzer we would
recommend, not the employing of an orchestra, but the abolition

of dances after Glee Club shows.

more council dances be held, to

We would urge further that

be paid for by the earnings of

the Wurlitzer and part of the savings on the Glee Club budget
that the Glee Club shows be planned for those who are reali
Interested, and that every effort be made to get the most out

of an unfortunate investment.

 

 

 

 

 

  

 

 

 

February 10, 1939

 

a} 77

“That's one way of ‘Breaking the ice
“But the best way is with a Sweet Cap.”

SWEET CAPORAL CIGARETTES

“The purest form in which tobacco can be smoked.”

 

Insist on Getting

Donovan’s Beverages
15 - Different Flavors - 15

Visit Our Oyster Bar
Fresh Oysters, served just like
you want them at _ Boutilier’s
Oyster Bar. Open until 6 p.m.

BOUTILIER’S
BEDFORD ROW

W. H. DONOVAN

45 GRANVILLE ST. B-6821

 

 

Small Gifts

For that personal gift
that must not be expen
Kat Wisely
Eat Well

Sive, may we suggest a
piece of Birks Vanity
Silver, in her pattern.

A few dollars will buy
one of the smaller pieces,
but her pleasure will be
unbounded.

The

Green Lantern HENRY BIRKS AND

SONS LIMITED

407-409 Barrington St.

Diamond Merchants
Halifax, N. S.

 

  

News of The Home

News of The World
*

NEWS WHEN IT IS NEWS
FOR EVERY MEMBER OF THE FAMILY

 

read

THE HALIFAX DAILY STAR

 

EATON’

 

een stil =

Mien’s
New Spring Felts
Are Here!

éatonia (=
each 4.. 5 0

Renown
each 3.50

Fine fur felts in these two
popular EATON lines! — In
snap, welt and bound brim
models for men and young
men. ... See them on display
in the Store.

 

EATON’S Men’s Hat Department—Main Floor

“T. EAT

.SATON Co

LIMITED

 

 

 
  

 
 

 

 

    
  

  
 

  
 
  
 
 

  
 

   
   
  
 
  
   
 
 
  

 
 
  
 
  
 

  

en eee diss appears
od that he is not attending

ure from the status quo when
“Good work, Doug—may you

Hiller has worshipped at the feet of some fair lady.
; Grant. He has acquired a bronze Buddha, and frequently
hie “goes to their room he finds it reeking with the smell of
ig incense. At its next meeting the Theological Society will refer
matter to the next meeting to be laid on the table at the following
in _ that it ay be discussed at the next meeting after that.

; eet great oiean of cee thought, the Pine Hill Pepper Box,

 

made its appearance Friday night amid new enthusiasm and revelry.
& nch hitting for president Stuart MacLeod who is absent from the
- eitadel, vice-president Alan Hopper presented the speech from the throne.
a _ He enjoined all students to avoid philosophical abstractions, aesthetic
re attractions, and vocal distractions. Turk, Wally, and the Scribe were
Sharad Speciinalhy with these misdemeanors. The casting of longing
ES ares in the direction of the “Valley” was frowned upon, and great concern
Was voiced in regard to an imminent invasion of the monastery by mem_ bers of the fair sex lest it interrupt the studies of Messrs. Vessey, Findley,
ote. Burton Crowe, the editor, spoke on behalf of the paper and made a
trong plea for democracy. Outstanding features in this greatest of
_ Pepper Boxes are the new technicolor and photography sections.
. THE event of the year, the “At Home”, will be held February 10th,
and all freshettes lucky enough to hold invitations will have an oppor¢ aeety of seeing this edition of the Pepper Box.

Gleanings from the Pepper Box
Note: The following poem was found in a bundle of old letters and
ig believed to have been composed by D. W. MacPherson, a poet of

  
   
 

    
     
  
   
 
  
 
  
   
 
  
  
   

floor?

  
 
 
 
 
   
   
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
   
   
   
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
   
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
   
 
 
 
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
 
  
   
  
  
 
 
 
  
   
 
  
   
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
    
     
   
  
   
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
 
 

: TE eceday, It shows the poetic trends of the period.

DESIRE
I
Fog—

Water of the Harbour;
The boat moves
A silent ghost
through
The dim vistas of misty white.
Voices
Through the murky haze:
I hear
Sonorous blowing of the fog horn,
The answering echo of a ship’s whistle,
Dim sounds of life
Through the evermoving Eternity
Fog!
i. =
| Fog— if
There was fog in my heart—
The chill ,
~ cold
sheety fog
Of Longing and Desire.
Vague
Wishes drifted ceaselessly
Through the empty corridors
Of Mind.
A voice
As of an angel speaking,
Shining hair,
Whispering to me
Through the vagueness of Desire.
My ship has reached
Her Haven
Dartmouth.
Content.

 

_ Famous Sayings of Famous Pine Hillers:

from averted faces.” —Nick MacLeod.
“TJ hate being educated.
e commercial classes.”,—A. C. MacKenzie,

| Thumbnail Sketches:

Carman Riggs—J oe College.

Earl MacCuish—Twinkle, twinkle, little star.
Glynn Firth—A link in a chain letter.

Stan MacQueen—God so loved.

 

3 “Ferdinand in Nova Scotian

 

r on social economy.)

lost ene of his favourite lobster| great trouble.
pet, was he ever disquieted. He’d

!

 
 
  
 
  

eo

Drifting in white banks over the rolling

“T am more an antique Roman than a Dane’—George Kind.
a “Catch the white handed nymphs in shady places, to woo sweet kisses

It puts one almost on the level of the

Ron Ritchie—So good he would pour rose water on a toad.

(Note: This is a story, not an es-| happy Fishermen. Thomas turned
around to see what they wanted and
_ Away down in foggy Nova Scotia|one of the more playful lobsters
_ there once lived a fisherman named| leaned out and nipped him youThomas. He lived a peaceful life,|know-where. Now Thomas had been
and only once in a while, when one|to Lunenburg and he had learnt

_ of his friends was drowned or he|how to express himself when in

The newspapermen were very inver heard of the Fishermen’s Co-| terested when they heard what
D6 rative Movement or the murder-|Thomas had _ to say, and one of| ©™S; one of them married one of the
West Indies Tariff and he spent|them offered him a contract, and
days happily rowing around and| another said he thought a radio innights looking for the Aurora | terview might be arranged.

ne Thomas didn’t quite understand,
ee When he ‘was emptying but he signed the papers anyway
i 2 soon there appeared in one of

Continued on page four)

’ : ™ . is | r Pia 5 zi @ -. ne

a i a a . . ah oo fe

AS, Cee

“sf ra - # : ‘, es

 

#

> r i
, * ‘

 

I came out of the Law Building
quite late the other night, well after
11, and was in some hurry to get
home, when, walking towards me in
the dark, I saw a short, stout, little
man with no coat on, bowler hat

perched on his head, starched white

wing collar.

“Is this the Law School?” he
asked, and I was so amazed I
couldn’t answer him. What would
anyone want at the darkened Law
School at this hour of night, and who
was this little man? However, he
didn’t seem to want an answer for
he started in on a barrage of
questions.

“What’s up there on the second
What’s on the floor above?
Whose lecture room is that? I was
in the class of 92, Old Dean Weldon, Bennie Russell, Harrington,
Payzant.”

He paused for a few seconds, looking fondly at the building and here
I was able to whip in with an “Oh
you must have known Bennett, sir?”

“Bennett”, he replied, “Of course
I know him; yes, Dick Bennett,
cocky fellow Dick was. Remember
one time in the Mock Parliament;
we played a good trick on him;
locked him up in this room right
here, so he couldn’t lead his party;
tried to get out that window there;
half way through when I caught
him by the ankles.” He stood there
chuckling to himself.

“You are practicing, sir?” I was
able to ask.

“No”, he replied, not having heard
my question, so lost was he in the
thoughts of the good old days of ’92.
“No, I was a student here. There
was old John Forrest; ‘Lord John’,
we called him; office was right over
there, other side of the main door;
great scrimmage we used to have
then; everytime the law students met
the medical students in the hall we
used to have a scrimmage’. He
seemed very surprised when I told
him we didn’t have scrimmages anymore—‘liable to hurt the Meds you
know, sir.” He chuckled again.

“T remember one time”, he said,
“when we had a scrimmage right
outside Lord John’s door; what a one
that was; licked the Meds off the
map. Lord John was hopping mad;
poor old Johnnie Forrest. Yes, he
fined all the students 25 cents each,
and everyone paid it in coppers;
came in and plunked them down on
his desk; they were spilling over on
the floor’. And once more he quietly laughed.

By this time I was getting a little
cold, just standing there, snow all
around. I looked at him with his
little bowler on the top of his head,
hands deep in his trousers, no coat
on. “You must be cold, sir,” I said,
hoping that by calling his attention
to the seemingly obvious he might
forget his reveries and allow me a
chance to bid him goodnight. But
no. He told me he wasn’t a bit cold,
always walked about like this, and
then he started in afresh.

“Hector Macinnes; he used to
teach us; poor old Hector, Dear old
Dean Weldon, Bennie Russell; we
used to pull Bennie’s leg a lot. See
that house over there on the corner?
Number four, Carleton. I used to
board there; Trueman, Chapman,
Fraser and I. Charlie Trueman,
he’s a judge out in Winnipeg now;
poor old Chapman, he’s been dead a
long time; and;Fraser, ‘God’s gift
to Canada’, Fraser we used to call
him; near-sighted boy, so nearsighted he had to hold a book right
up to his nose. First year some of
the boys used to rag him, but noi
for long; everyone soon forgot his
peculiarity; could cite the very page
of any case he had read; he weni
down to Cornell University from
here; brilliant fellow; died there;
they brought him back here and
buried him with honour from Dalhousie; poor old Fraser. Mrs. Noble
ran the house; she had two daught
boys in the class; the other never
married. Then there was Bob Mur
Jray, and Dickie McBride; McBride

went west and became premier of
some province out there; forget
which one. ’92 that was; let’s see;
47 years ago, a long time ago”.
On and on he went, talking of so

SS
SO ee gga...

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

‘Meeting the Past! If! Were « Dictator

 

I’d impress on these embryonic
doctors at the Med. School that talking as some of them do in threedecker words of medical jargon, in
society, is not so much a display of
their medical knowledge at it is a
display of their lack of social grace.

I'd get me a composite girl friend
with the loveliness of Betty Pearson,
the legs of Joan Blackwood, the
charm of Frannie Martell, and the
enthusiasm of outdoor life of Mickey
Little. To be really perfect she’d
have to be a good cook—either that,
or have a charge account at the
Cake Box down town.

I'd impress on these Dalhousie
Stage-door-Johnnies the fact that
flitting around town as they have
done with the members of a reputable but nonetheless, I insist, still
second-string bunch of dramatic
immigrants is nothing over which to
gloat as they do. It might be possible that being amused by college
youth who are not yet dry behind
the ears may be another item on
the list of the “Hands Across the
Seas” company’s reportoire.

‘I’d instigate a movement to find
out what is to be done with the
money saved by the Glee Club as a
result of their usage of the Wurlitzer, which, it appears, is the
brain-child of Reardon, left on the
door-step of the Students’ Council.

I’d wire the Hall in such a manner as to make it possible for a
recording machine in each room to
chalk up everything the girls ‘say
following an evening out with one of
the local youth. I’d make it imperative that the resulting record
be in the hands of the escort of the
night before by noon the following
day. It might get the Hall-anddears in Dutch with most of the boys
who hear them talking Turkey, but
they can’t expect to Russia around
saying things about escorts without
the lads keeping a Czeck on them.
France-stance, many of the girls
criticize their boy friends who are
really Sweden them. -That’s Norway to treat a fellow who generally
feeds them — they should go Hungary. After all, if they Moscow out

with boys they should not complain.

I’d insist that Butch Lawson destroy that fire-sale bowler that he
balances atop his golden curls.
Every time I see him I mistake him
for either the house-detective or a
former Tammany Hall ward-heeler.

I’d pepper with lead the first man
who, on reading my platform for
dictatorship, raises his eyes to the
heavens and murmurs “Thank Goodness for democracy, may it never
die”’,

I’d impress on some of the college
professors the fact that to minimize
the mental qualifications and ability
of any one student solely because the
student in question is not particularly adept at that professor’s subject is not fair. After all, it may
be possible that even a mere student
knows some things of which the professor is entirely ignorant — and
things worth while, as well. It was,
I believe, Mark Twain who said:
“We are all of us ignorant—only on
different subjects”.

I'd banish to a cold Siberia any
editor who accepted trivia such as
this and regard him as a Public
Knemy,

I'd resign.

 

 

many people and things long since
dead and past that my mind became
confused. My feet, I was sure, were
frozen to the ground. Then, suddenly with one long last look at the
building, from the ground, way up
to the roof, he turned, and after a
“Good night young man” over his
shoulder started down the drive
through the trees.

It will be a long, long time before
I forget that little coatless old man,
with the bowler hat and starched
wing collar,

— ene eens?

 

Hard Ricks

The other day in class Professor Bennet made a fairly comprehensive

list of all the various types that were to be found at Dalhousie.

One of

the obvious ones was the Social Butterfly and we think this is a very apt

description of her, so take warning, and act accordingly.

“She was selfish,

thirsty for pleasures of the most vulgar sort, liked to bask in the atmosphere of erotic admiration, amused herself by collecting adorers and
treating them badly, and was stupid and a liar—in other words was one

of the normal types of healthy young womanhood”.
I leave the unfortunate male to answer.

I wrong?

Am I right or am

The male can’t get away with everything, however, even though he

does make a valiant attempt.

Last week a group of girls were discussing

(you know the usual store conversation) the members of the opposite sex,
There was a heated debate over the possibility of a male having a soul

and, if so, where he hid it.

Apparently through bitter experience all

agreed that this phenomena was well housed in his stomach; but one
brave upholder of the negativé side piped up with “A boy’s soul can’t be

in his stomach because there isn’t room for it!”

We ain’t sayin nothin,

but ain’t it the truth?

Knock, knock, who’s there ?
again, but our would be glamorous gals will have a wonderful chance to
even the score during the coming Sadie Hawkins week, We weep for you,

we deeply sympathize as the walrus said holding his pocket handkerchief
before his streaming eyes.

realization—but we meander from the point so here goes.

This time it’s the brow-beaten female

They say anticipation far exceeds actual

PHANTOM OF DELIGHT
By Robert E. Dean

She was “a phantom of delight”,
But now I see her late at night
A fearsome apparition, bent
On being next day’s ornament.
Her face beseamered to make it fair
A sight to cause strong me to swoon
If viewed at sunlit, garish noon.
Some change this, from the image gay,
That once could dazzle me by day!

 

Mr. Chamberlain Thinks He Has Won

 

In the British House of Commons
on January 31st, 1939, Rt. Hon.
Neville Chamberlain said in the.
course of his speech following Mr.
Hitler’s address to the Reichstag;
“It is untrue to say ... that the
policy of appeasement has failed.
On the contrary I maintain it is
steadily succeeding”. It has suceeded in dismembering Czecho-Slovakia,
and in turning the remnant into a
German statellite; it has enabled
Nazi agents to practically take possession of Carpatho-Ukraine as a
base of operations against the
Soviet Union. With Munich, Mr.
Chamberlain’s reputation in the
United States and in Russia immediately fell to a lower ebb than it ever
had before. Every tiny country in the
Balkans was served with notice that
it would not be defended by the
western democracies from attack by
any one except possibly Russia, if
Germany shoudl overstep its bounds.
The confidence of the people of
Germany was so heightened that
they gave up for the moment all
thought of abandoning the BerlinRome axis and proceeded to make
the most amazing demands. No
matter, Mr. Chamberlain still thinks
he has won, and goes on to claim:
“As to our prestige abroad, it has
never stood higher than it does
today.” If the humble reader thinks
this remark is part of some higher
wisdom possessed by Mr. Chamberlain, he can ponder over the naivete
of another remark from the same
speech:

“T am certain Mr. Attlee is mistaken. Let me remind him that
only th other day, when we were
in Rome, we received fresh and
repeated assurances from Signor
Mussolini and Count Ciano confirming what they had already
told us, that they had nothing to
seek from Spain after the war was
over,

Of course, I had similar assurances from Mr. Hitler”.

But Mr. Chamberlain is not altogether wrong. After a few days in
which it seemed that Mr.
would simply ask for and obtain the
world, it began to appear that the
British Empire and the Bank of
England might still stand. Mr.
Chamberlain had saved neither
Czecho-Slovakia nor democracy; but
then he had never especially wanted

What was his name?|to. He had broken the alliance with

I really don’t know and probably Russia, but he had always distrustnever will. Wouldn’t want to as 4! ed Marianne’s proletarian friend. He

matter of fact. An exchange of
names would have spoiled the illu
.
:

had lost the confidence of the Balkan
countries, but they were not likely

sion. For a time there I was back to be of any help in defending the

in ’92 with the little old man —

_Empire—not the parts most menaced

pulling Dick Bennett through the | by Germany, at any rate. Mr.
window by his ankles, dumping hun- Chamberlain would have to admit{ Spanish prize with British interests

dreds of pennies on Lord John’s desk. . two setbacks.

F

 

i
eS

One was a loss of |.

 

Wonstsarsis Chinese trade to Japan;

| but that could not have been defended in any case. The other was
the Insurgent victory in Spain, giving the axis powers a new way “to
menace France and the route to
India, and the opportunity to develop
some iron mines British capital
would like very much—although, of
course, “they had nothing to seek
from Spain after the war was over”.

But even in Spain Mr. Chamberlain is confident that he has succeeded. He believes that he can
reestablish British commerce and
investment after Franco has won,
either singlehandedly or by breaking
the Berlin-Rome axis. Of the latter
he is quite hopeful. Signor Mussolini could not have been so pleased
with the result of the Munich agreement, which gave everything to
Germany and nothing to Italy, and
his contempt for racial theories has
been so well-known that his antiJewish measures must have been
adopted only under pressure from
Germany. Italians are complaining
that the Germans have given them
the “passo Romano”—the goose-step
—in exchange for the “passo del
Brenner”, where loyal Germans now
do not hesitate to hail a coming
“anschluss” for the northern Trentino. Cooperation with Germany
means a part in the drive towards
the Ukraine and action in the Far
East, neither of which offers Italy
& great advantage. It is inconceivable that the alliance would have
endured as long as it has were it
not for Italian fears that Germany
as an enemy would be more dangerous than Germany as a friend, and
expectations that Herr Hitler wou
be considerate enough to back Mussolini in his demands on France.

Under these circumstances Rome
cannot be expected to react favourably to Mr. Hitler’s Reichstag speech,
Germany will defend Italy if that
country is attacked, but of course
wants peace and can hardly be expected to take part in an offensive
war, In short, Italy cannot count on

| German aid in a war against France.
Hitler | =

On the other hand, with British
recognition of the Ethiopian conquest and an impending Nationalist
victory in Spain, there remain very
few sources of friction with the
democratic powers, excepting, of
course, Tunis, Nice, and Corsica,
which Signor Mussolini can forget
about any time he finds it convenient,

So the possibility remains that II
Duce may forget about the RomeBerlin axis and enter into a friendly
understanding with Great Britain,
especially if he is, or has been offered, the chance of dividing the

(Continued on page 4)

 

 

       
  
  

 

 
%

oueuasy 10, 1939

NOTICES

Applications of those who wish te
attend the Maritime Conference of
University Students will be accepted
at any meeting of the study groups,
or before 12 noon, Saturday, by
John Dickey.

Education Study Group:

Education Study Group will meet
Friday evening at 7.30 o’clock in the
Murray Homestead.

 

    

   
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
   
   

DAL DOWNED TWICE

Cubs Lose in
‘Overtime, 29-23

 

 

Laas pe od, but failed to hold it as Canawe Set ae put on the pressure. ‘Two
quick goals at the 13 minute mark
aS gave the Halifax team the win, although the last goal was a gift from
Ken Beer’s stick. George Corston,
who has been playing consistently
good hockey of late, scored three

| St. Mary's, 5; Dal, 1

 

 

| “Twelfth Night”:
Cast will rehearse Sunday afternoon at 2,30 in the Gymnasium.

wie Tigers Beaten By
Grads, 34-30

5 }
Disappointing was the showing of
team has| the Tigers in losing to the Grads |

2 ?

Girls’ Sports
Basketball

The first basketball
definitely been picked and the girls|last night. 34 to 30. |
are now playing together regularly; They seemed unable to co-ordinate °" @ penalty shot and then went on
and preparing for the game against| their efforts and often lapsed on the to beat them in overtime last night.
Acadia on the eighteenth of this! defence to allow their opponents to_
month. The training rules have been | score.
posted and the players are expected! Throughout the game the differ-_ 2
bo aie to them. The team is com-|ence in the score was never more | but threw away their advantage.
posed of C. Sullivan, J. Anderson, J.| than four points but only once in|
Blackwood, F. Armstrong, P. Gor-| the second period were the Tigers in |

 

 

 

/Open House:
The Intercollegiate hockey Lenain I Open House at Sheriff Hall Sat
weit dowel before’ Bt. “Mary's on | Urday night. Eligible to attend:

Delte é ‘ ember plus escort.
Monday night at the Arena by the | oe eae Pp

With less than a minute to go

   
 

h King’s tied the score with the Cubs
to lead the Tigers. Thomas |

*. and Dickie got the others. Munro
shone again, and if any stars were
stg: be nominated for the year’s play,
 hhe’d get our vote as number one

choice.

 

score of 5—1, in a game that start- | Mixed Dancing Class

The Cubs had overcome a deficit| .q well but ended up by boring ev
 

There will be no mixed dancing
eryone. With the exception of the | class this Friday evening. The next
Saints’ front line, which sports two | Session will be on Feb. 17th.

Wolverine regulars, the teams were |
about even. The first period was| Newfoundland Club

and gone into the lead themselves

 

 

After holding King’s to six points
in the second period, they allowed

: : Ferdinand-
: th ] in the five minute | fast, with some nice passin lays Professor Cowan will speak to the
ee & Rareison, M. Wood, | the lead. Pewontine. CPACOMEET TOR. by both, teamus: St Mary vieow | Nowionddlend Clem aiGa0 on Su(Continued * page 3) P, Hendry and I Smith. No indivi- The close guarding of the Grads | overtime. eo ee eee t. Mary's drew | , :

the daily papers a simply beautiful
picture of his lobster pots with
Thomas standing in front of them.
There was a lot of printing underneath, but Thomas didn’t bother
about that. ,

‘One day a letter came for him
from a big newspaper magnate asking him to speak on the radio.
Thomas didn’t know anything about

the radio, but when a man came for
him in a lovely yellow car he said
he’d go.

They asked him to tell the people
of Canada all about what he did
and if he liked it. To make it easier
they gave him a long sheet of pink
paper on which was printed the
most awful story of suffering and
want. Thomas didn’t think that that
was going to help him very much,

so he quietly put it in his pocket.

Then he began telling the people of

Canada all about his lobster pots |
ie and how he tricked the inspector
_-___ last spring when he was fishing out
of. season. The radioman didn’t
seem to like it very well and he
+: - took Thomas home quickly, long before he had half finished.

first blood, but Thomas got the goal | day in the Arts Building.
back, assisted by Corston and Blois. |
The period ended 1—1. |

After that both teams decided to
show the spectators how to play |
pond hockey. St. Mary’s scored
three times in the second and once
in the final period. Gordon and|
MacDonald played good hockey on)
defence, and the front line of Cors- |
ton, Thomas and Smith showed up)
well. |

dual player stands out but the! never gave them a chance to get set
strength of the team lies in its com- | for a long shot or break free for a
bination plays. The forwards are lay-up.

working well together and the) Only the shooting of Cal Seaman |
guards are learning to intercept that | kept them in the running.
ball, | Line-up: Smith, MacKimmie, Sea
On Saturday, in the inter-class man, Hart, Shainhouse, Martin,
league the Sophs beat the Junior-| Stewart.
Senior team 18-8. The main trouble
with the teams was their need of
more shooting practice as well as)
better co-operation. On the Sophomore team were K. Hicks, M. Doull, |
F. Glass, J. Cahan, B. Schwartz, and
E. Menger; and on the JuniorSenior team were P. Merkle, S.
Kirkpatrick, E. MacKenzie, M. MacIntosh and M. Hayman.

The next game will be between the
Freshettes and the Junior-Seniors at
the usual time.

In the regulation time the Cubs
had the better of the play but missed
many opportunities to score.

 

ODE TO THE HOMECOMING

HOCKEY. TEAM
Starkle, starkle, little twink,
Who the heck you are, I think.
Up above the high so sky,
Starkle? Twink?

The game was marked by close
‘guarding resulting in few chances
for a set shot.

King’s and Dal are now tied in the
intermediate league standing.

 

 

Travelling Tigers Repulsed

Tigers Lose to New Glasgow, 10-6 , Dalhousie Draws With St. F. X. 3-3
Dalhousie continued without a_/| ; |

victory in the league when they lost| The Tigers played their best hoc-| fence: Gordon, MacDonald, Veinot; | you meet her?

at New Glasgow last week by the|kKey of the year to tie with St.| right wing: Corston, Marshall; cen-| Joe: I dunno. I just opened my

score of 10 to 6. As in every game Francis Xavier, three all, at Anti-| tre: Thomas, MacGregor; left wing: | wallet and there she was.

this year the showing of the Tigers Little St. F. X. college is| Smith, Blois. |

was neither good nor bad. The | known for its good teams, so that SESS |

strong New Glasgow team kept the
® Now Offered

pressure on for minutes at a time
and outscored Dalhousie in the first ; ; Dit

two periods. lation time and again in the over- In the familiar pouch or new

In the third period Dalhousie out- time Dalhousie tied the score. Best slide packages. A tastier, milder

cigarette made from much

better tobaccos. Try them.

Fresh: Say, that was some blonde
Line up—Goal: Koretsky; de-| you were with last night. Where did

 

gonish.

—Sheaf.

6-5 at the.
with eight men, Dalhousie had a
4-2 lead half way through the second

 

the showing of the Dalhousie team
was quite creditable. Twice in regu
  
     
   

Swimming

The swimmers who will defend the
cup on Friday night have been
chosen. They are S. Kirkpatrick, H.
Harrison; D. Dennis, P. Patterson, K.
Hicks, and B .Thomas. If anyone is
interested in cheering the team on

 

scored New Glasgow on three quick|2/@vers for the Tigers were Harry
goals in succession. Six players Smith and George Collins, who each
scored one goal each for Dalhousie | S°°Ted once. The tying goal in overand another player assisted on goals. | time was scored by Thomas on a
Line-up —Goal: Munro; defence: | PSS from Doug Macdonald.
MacGregor, Doug Macdonald, Vei-|

 

Line-up—Goal: Koretsky; defence:

nh
t¥*
erie
. t ; a
iy Py <o
* ,
i

 

7 to victory he should be at the Y.M.|not; forwards: Smith, Collins,| Macgregor, Macdonald; forwards: 4
__ Now Thomas is back by the sea.) at 8 o’clock with twenty-five cents in| Thomas, G. Corston, R. Corston,| Collins, Smith, Veinot, Thomas, . , }

Quietly he looks for his lobster pots| hand. Macdougall, Dickey. Corston, Macdougall. CIGARETTES. 2
| Pea _ and peacefully every evening he ele ne nate — :
x Re. looks for the Aurora Borealis. He is| Badminton | B
1 very, very happy. The faculty women defeated the J. H. CONN W. T. MARTEL .

 

4)

vr

Lies girls in a series of friendly matches

eae . on Tuesday night with a score of
Chamberlain-- 8-1. There was not a very large
. (Continued from page 3) turn-out but everyone seemed to en-|
instead of the domineering Germans. | jo. herself and after all that is the
Mr. Chamberlain apparently expects

ae
a

fi

f i

CONN & MARTEL

BOWLING & BILLIARD ACADEMY

   
 

“e

i i
ele
oe


choice of

 

 

 
    

 

   
 

 

 

   

|< him to, He thinks that the Berlin-| "ny. single's tournament ic non
| ‘e. Rome axis has been broken and his betid played of, and Maureén Allen Cor. Argyle and Buckingham Streets Halifax, N. S.
| Policy of appeasement successful. | ould like the girls who are in the | t ¢ |
t “ The odds are against him. Mus-| tounament to play the first rounds a:
_ soliini may not forget about his by Saturday.

colonies, and German financiers and & ®@ a

industrialists may not be so easily | um ra | | erent

expelled from Spain. But London 10 Fy

is still English, the King and Queen Inte rFaculty Basketball ® | Each year for the last ten years the Standard
|? have still an empire to visit, and : | | has declarad:a ..c. 00 2 te. ts
| a umbrellas are still in style. Law 34; A, and §, 11 |
: rn —J. W. GRANT The Law team went farther into siiaanavaanat SER: ER
ne 3 “ ; the lead in the Interfaculty Basket- ; aa SAPS ‘
ee Editor’s Note: It is reported that | ball League by defeating Arts and| , oe
| _ the following appeared in Hitler’s| science 34—11. In the first half the ce
organ, Voelkischter Beobachter:

“A Spain which is an Atlantic,
North African and Mediterranean
| -—~—«&éspower permits Italy to blow up the
ice Gibraltar gateway . . . and by fita. ting up the islands of the central
_ ~~--s Mediterranean — the Balearics and
| _* Spanish Morocco—to cut the direct
-—-~—~—s- ¢ommunication links between France
2 a> and Africa.”
a,

Was over at the Observatory the

 
 
  
 
 
 
   

game was close and at half time the
score was only 10—9 in Law’s
favour, but in the second half Law}
scored 24 points as against 1 lone
goal for Arts and Science. Best
players for Law were Trites and
Storey. |

Line-ups:

Law—Storey 2; Hanway 2, Piercey 4, Bingham 12, Trites 12, Swetnam 2; Murray.

A. & S8.—Smith 3; Fraser, Ball,

made uith §
THE REST MILK CHOCOLATE MANE

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
  
     
     

ay OO”
RR
wx) aX

    

ANNUAL COMPOUND
BONUS

addition to the Sum Assured and corresponding
Cash Dividends , . . In 1936 this yielded for the

 

 

 

              
 
   
 
 
 

   
 
  

 

 

  
  
 

  
 

      

   

 

:' ; f th |
__ other day and saw an Engineer look-| Hennigar, Tupper 2; Burchell 2; wwe tase ————<—— year to many of the older members over
sgt ing through the telescope. He looked | Perlin. is: BANKRUPTCY |
pe through the thing for about five Sh eta A is the goal of students who fail to work—but what a horror is failure |
_~ _ minutes in silence and finally said:| “Are you the bull of the campus?” for students who overwork. Find out “how to work”—where to place
be oes “Gawd!” “That's me, baby.” your emphasis by consulting “College Helps”—a catalogue listing out- ;
. Beer. ti} Ran: 2 ae ts aa Sal lines, aids, and translations for all courses. Write for your free copy. | |
P Se eee : sr . THE BOOK EXCHANGE ert
, Canada’s Book-Clearing House” R eee |
* : 370 Bloer St. W., Toronto, Ontario REPO
It has a delight- Sereeicetialepediaihddinesdleiaiclainenbinaboepssinitentantsmcainatniicaindcaetacwers sebeas scmabeamiieecaiaan BRS OG PUEIEN TERT ETTITS RETIRE EERE SVSaETTERERETENOER
fal satisfying flavour— ae nye NN ‘i ; FOU int Fe mn SOS me :
this new mixture of aN *: % 8 ; i Ro ae Bs RK a Sy
choice Virginia and ' x AXX KX) NI TA
> KX as RRA RAR STN SKK RRR RM KK)
| | esis a aheteas MACLEOD B f ROKR DS KARO Ao NA SOON DOR
| ee eee lea) Pentel pe Peviae , BALCOM, LIMITED ASSURANCE COMPANY
wee, y \ Py =| ee aaa . : : HEAD OFFICE; 3 GEORGE STREET, EDINBURGH
oe GEL MIS | DRUGGGISTS HEAD OFFICE FOR CANADA, 391 Se. James Street, MONTREAL.
TTT yk pete cms ma
ris yw | | . ’ mitted and paid by che nadian r irectors.
Wa EO, ae | | 4 Halifax, Sheet Harbour and Kentville, N. S. HALIFAX BRANCH: 312-314 CAPITOL BUILDING s,
ss PERE TOBACCO
} a,

H. P. WEBB, M. Sc., Branch Manager E

4

 

Bg i a SR ere a oa Pn ee
