 
 
  
  

“475 Bit
~Join Film Society

“Pearls of the Crown,” starring
Sacha Guitry and Jacqueline De: _ Iubae, was presented last Thursday
. : _ evening in the Gymnasium by the|°¢
_ Dalhousie Film Society. This newly
formed organization, after a checkered career which nearly ended in
bankruptcy and failure, has finally
produced its first program.

“Pearls of the Crown” was film
ed in France, and directed by Sacha

| _ Guitry, who also played three parts.
A somewhat novel film in its treatment of cinematic technique, it told
the story of seven pearls, four of
which are in the English Crown
_ jewels, and traced their ownership
over a period of several centuries.
The scenes were laid in ancient
Rome, France, Elizabethan England,
and modern Europe. The final scene,
in which one of the pearls returned

    
   
  

 

     

Bt

yea}

  
    
    

place on the French liner, the Nor- mandie. The language difficulty was
y overcome by the use of subtitles and
Pr a unique method of telling the story

| i 4, in English, French and Italian by
mentators. All the elements of

ve ¥; good show, humour, drama,
vageantry were present and well
; Among the various characpic’ Pope Clement a,

  
 
 

i _ Prane cis I

 

perform: ance _many Doe ivc com-ments were heard from the one
_ hundred and fifty members of the
_ Society present. Two main criti- cisms were voiced. The Gymnasium

 
  

a

a

Bib

 

_ the audience great discomfort. The
sound effects were not quite satis
 
 
 

before another film is presented
steps will have been taken to remedy
. this. A break in the film caused a
| ye stop in the middle of the first reel,
ee while Mr. Parker, the operator,
spliced it. After this difficulty was
removed the show went on without
___ interruption.
Encouraged by this success of
é _ their first attempt, the Film Society
now plans to present a_ second
_ French film, a satire on the medical
; profession, called “Dr. Knock.”
This picture will probably be shown
on January 20,

{
iS.
Ms

   
 
  
  

 

 

| Capital Close-up

By ROSS MUNRO
C.U.P. Correspondent

 

 

  

i

  
  
    
   
    
  
  
  
  
  
  
    
  
  
  
   
   
   
   
    
  
   

Ottawa, Nov. 21—The new trade
treaty between Canada and _ the
United States is shaping up as a
certain issue for the next federal
election, probably within a year.

_ With defence and national unity
also problems of wide public interest
e and importance which the electorate
might be asked to give an opinion
on, a rousing campaign is already
being predicted here. But first a
=F, hectic session of parliament is ex_ pected with the government on the
_ defensive for the first time since the
oresent parliament opened three
S$ ago.
. » Paet Favours Maritimes
. “white the trade pact has been
erally received with favor by
di interests, it has such wide
that any final opinion
S$ merits is out of the question
it has os in b epstabion for

i
“
4

¥,

eka

: Pe

C Ae
Cations

to its place of origin, an oyster, took |

 
 
  
   

i of |
ry, Hho “mie assisted’ Boyd, K.C:" The: effect:
re of this decision for the plaintiff,

 

| —s Was very cold and caused many in

_ factory, but it is expected that

In The Law Courts

At the final sittings of the Dalhousie Supreme Moot Court two
very important cases were heard
and two extremely able and signifieant decisions handed by the
Bench. In the first case, Smith v.
Wonderland Movie Palace Co., Ltd.,
the facts, stated briefly, were that
one Elsie Smith attended the performance of a motion picture presented by the defendant’s Wonderland Movie Palace. In the course
of the program a rat ran over the
foot of the plaintiff, and she, in
sudden fright, pushed her foot
against the rat, which bit her. She
brings this action to recover damages amounting to $5,000.

The case for the appellant, Miss
Smith, who appeals from the decision of Judge Strange, was ably
argued by H. L. (Babe) Stewart, |
K.C. He succeeded in convincing
two of the Bench, Baron Gaudet or
Spudfield, Lord Chief Justice, and
Viscount James Milner, his brother
Lord Justice.

J. M. Boyd, K.C., upheld the decision of the lower court in favor
of the defendant, the Wonderland
Movie Palace, but only convinced
one member of the Bench, Sir Frederick Regan, R.C.M.P., LJ. J. H.
MacAdam was junior counsel for
the appellant, and R A. MacKim
‘Miss Smith, may be very serious for
|the Film Society.

At the final hearing of the preChristmas sittings, a Bench composed of Baron Verne Read of Columbia, Lord Chief Justice, Viscount
Petrie, L.J., and Sir Rowan C. Coleman, K.C.M.G., C.P.R.,'L.J., entertained argument by counsel on an
appeal from the decision in the case
of Foley v The Classique Coaches,
Ltd. The facts were rather complicated, and would not bear repetition,
but their Lordships handled the difficulties in this point of contract
law quite successfully. A majority
of the Court, Sir Rowan and Viscount Petrie, affirmed the decision
of the lower court, and the Lord
Chief Justice recorded a dissenting
judgment. J. W. G. (Bud) Macdougall, K.C., argued very ably for
the appellant, and L. W. Hudson,
K.C., appeared for the respondent.

The next session of the court will

'be held shortly after the opening of
| the new term. At present notice

has been given of four cases.

To Aid Refugees

Mt. A. Students Need
Govt. Sanction for Plan

 

 

 

Tiring of the usual ineffectual
protestation aroused by the Nazi
Jewish pogrom, the Student Union
of Mount Allison University passed
a resolution to be forwarded to the
Dominion Government, asking that
a change be made in the immigration
policy of Canada to enable a limited
number of carefully-selected refugee
students from Germany to continue
their academic studies at Mount
Allison University. The students
propose to raise a fund among themselves and to accept additional funds
from other sources in order to provide for a small number of refugee

students at Mount Allison. The plan
was officially approved by Dr.
George J. Trueman, president of the

(Continued on page 6)

 

   
   
  
 
     
      
  
     

Jack Finlay

New Wednesday night a Dalhousie team will meet the two

debaters from Australia in the Gymnasium.

HALIFAX, N. 8., DECEMBER 2, 1938

Will Meet Aussies

 

 

— ee

Jack Petrie

affirmative of the proposition, “Resolved that nationalism is a

menace to civilization’.

The debate will start at 8.15.

judging team is composed of Mr. Justice Archibald, Dr. W. D.
Forrest, and J. W. Godfrey, K.C.

Jack Finlay, the leader of the Dal
duo, is well known to those who
heard last year’s N.F.C.U.S. debate
with the Upper Canadians. Although
domiciled in Halifax, he is not a
native of this city. At the tender

age of four he left Windsor, N. &.,
where he was born, to take up a

‘more ‘permanent residence in the

city. As a student at St. Mary’s,
where he obtained his bachelor’s de
| gree in Arts, Jack had an outstand
ing record, winning the Gold Medal
at his graduation. He is at present studying Law and will graduate
with the class of 1940. Not content with the mere assimilation of
legal lore, Jack may be found preparing himself for the inevitable as
a Second Lieutenant in the Dalhousie unit of the C.O.T.C. He is also
a member of Weldon Inn Legal
Fraternity. He considers tennis
and reading his favorite sports and
does plenty of both.

Jack Petrie, the second member

of the Dalhousie squad, unlike his
colleague, is not a native of Nova
Scotia, but comes from the far
West. His early education was obtained at the Western Canada Collegiate School and later for two
years in Arts at the Mount Royal
College. He is at present articled
to the law firm of Bennett, Hannah,
Nolan, Chambers and Might, in the
city of Calgary, and is a member of
Class ’39 in Law. Like his colleague,
he too has military aspirations, being a Lieutenant, Officer Commanding, M.D. 13, Store Section, Royal
Canadian Ordnance Corps. Besides
his class work in the Law School,
he finds time for his two favorite
pastimes—golfing and figure skating. Although he has not hitherto
appeared on a debating platform at
Dalhousie, he has experience as a
debater for the Young Men’s Conservative Association in Calgary to
his credit.

 

Miller Reveals

Palestine

 

“T know no situation which is so
imbedded in history as the situation
in Palestine,” said A. L. Miller, general secretary of the Jerusalem Y.
M. C. A., who, in addressing the
Dalhousie students at the Chem
Theatre, gave the historical background from earliest Biblical times
to the present.

In the battleground of the ages,
the old feud of Ishmael and Isaac
is being re-enacted, today, presenting a most discouraging problem to
the British Empire. From the beginning of the modern situation in
1915, when the British promised to
set up an independent state for the
Arabs, and 1917 when England
pledged assistance to the Jews for
the establishment of a home, Palestine has been torn asunder. “I have
never known hatred to be so deep
as it is today,” said Mr. Miller.
“For two and a half years Palestine
has been in the throes of bloodshed,
hatred, arson, murder and looting.”

“The only sensible thing for the
Jewish people to do is to come to
some understanding with the Arabs.
Our hope is that even in spite of the
great chasm between the two races,
the gesture of Malcolm MacDonald
for an Arab-Jewish round table conference next January will be accepted,” concluded Mr. Miller.

Glynn Firth, President of the S.
C. M., was the chairman.

Editors Name
Picture Deadline

The members of the graduating
classes in Arts, Science, Commerce, and Engineering are requested to go to Gauvin and
Gentzel’s (on Spring Garden Rd.)
for the purpose of having their
individual graduation pictures
taken. Any afternoon this week
between 2.30-5.50 will be suitable,
but All Pictures must have been
taken by December 10.

Your earnest cooperation is requested.

 

Special Vacation Fares

 

The Secretary’s Office of the
N.F.C.U.S. announces that arrangements have been concluded with the
Canadian Railways whereby special
rates will again be in effect for
all university students during the
Christmas vacation.

These rates will be at the rate of
one-way fares plus one-quarter for
the round trip, and are good for issuance between November 26th and
January 2nd; valid for return passage leaving destination not later
than midnight January 31st. The
usual regulation in respect to certificates will prevail.
obtain certificates from the Registrar’s office, or from local passenger
agents of any railway.

 
 

Dalhousie has the |

The |

  

No. 10

Glee Club | ub Presents | Farce

Rew Pesihe
See Hodge Podge

Mind on Show

 

(By

 

|
7:
¢ ritic Speaks
ee

y The Gazette’s Dramatic Critic) night to a small audience.

|

 

its second
Vednesday
(The
rumor is abroad that the proximity

Glee Club presented
offering of the year last

It is interesting to note how un-| of examinations kept a large num|

ee the critical mind reacts to|
farce.

‘and again in the more luminous

| American drama critics, and believe |
‘it or not,

even among our

|stolid and more dignified English| led by Doug MacKean.

| cousins.
| Whether it is sentimentality,

~ | which longs for the vaudeville days
|of Bert Lahr, W. C. Fields, et al or)

| not, on the part of the observer, is| |,.
'climax of the play came when Don

‘hard to say, but the fact remains
that the phenomenon exists.
especially notable among the New
York chroniclers,
Nathan who can tear
|Howard’s Hamlet and come out with
‘the report that the gentlemen in
question reminds him vaguely of a
product of Grimm’s inkpot, is the
same George Jean Nathan who can
declare quite solemnly to the effect
that Olsen and Johnson in “Hellzapoppin’” (a three ring circus, in
round figures) is a work that ranks
with Shaw and O’Neill.

Perhaps it is that the critics hate
pretense. A bug-bearing ineffectual,
pseudo-intellectual, work of Lloyd ©.
Douglas standard, can do more harm
than all. your Durantes rolled into
one. A Durante doesn’t pretend to
be anything just as Bella and Sam)

 

It has been apparent time |

ber away).
A sing-song, a farce, a gossip
feature, the band, and the nickelo
| dian combined to make the evening
|a typical hodge-podge.

more |

The show opened with a sing-song
g £;
“Mariposa

| Bung”, or “The Belle of the Frowsy

| ;
Emma”,

It is|

The George Jean |
into Leslie |

 

Spewack (“Boys Meet Girl’) don't |

pretend to be anything. The result
has been stated above.

A play that pretends to be something (remember the Pine Hill oneacter of last year?) receives closer
attention, and in 99% of the cases,
scathing and final abuse. The reason is obvious; the critic does not
dislike the author personally, but
feels he (the author) should devote
more time to his stamp collecting.
Which brings us around to our
theory of a critic’s aim—to act as an
interpreter between the author and
the public.

For last night’s show an interpreter was, however, hardly necessary. Or rather, one was necessary

for the story but not for enjoyment. |

The point of the thing was quite beyond our comprehension which we
hasten to add was of no consequence.
The laughter bursting from

was enough to fill the Gym. When
the water fell from the ceiling we
literally fell off the seat.

In one way we rather regret the

 

 

work. For it means that the others that he be paid one doll
will have to be good, and a serious time the m

work to be better will require a (2) that Henry Reardon be

great deal of ‘“down-to-earthness”’

the idea prompting it is that a serious work deserves the Connolley
award. The purpose, we believe, of
the award is to foster a general interest in the better drama. “Mariposa Bung” is not good drama. It is
extremely good burlesque. Perhaps
the most fortunate circumstance was
Jonathan Morrison’s Bertram. He
appeared completely conscious of the
work’s idiocy and brought out some
fine pieces of ad libbing. Particularly did we like the cigarette
thrown on the floor in face of “apparent death”, The rest of the cast
was good. All in all it was very

Students may Pleasant.

Tip: Sherriff Hall “gossip” is not
very interesting when staged. No
offence, Melba,

Mr. |

Bennet and us (in close proximity) |
| Henry Reardon on the financial re
ed caretaker of th hi
All of which may be mistaken but det

 

 

|Melba Callow,

the farce produced by the
Glee Club Executive itself, followed.
It was well received, especially by
the Glee Club Executive itself. The

“Hell’s Angel” Williams disguised
as Groucho Marx was lowered in a
safety belt from the loft.

Surprise was the chief qualification of the next item, which featured
Henry Reardon, and
Don Williams. In five minutes or
rapid repartee, the most intimate

|secrets of the campus were bared

before the unappreciative audience.
Principle disclosures were that
Rogers, Reynolds and MHennigar
form a triangle and that June Parks
while Wilmer Pats.

The band came forward with one

of their most finished performances

to the Council.
| pointed

they have giveen so far this year.
Their rendition of a waltz was particularly well received.

Dancing to the strains of the
Wurlitzer brought the evening to a
close.

Students’
Council Meets

 

The Council of the Students met

ilast Sunday afternoon in the Arts

Building. The absentees were Art
Ormiston and Ralph Plummer.

Having approved of the minutes
of the previous meeting they attended to business as follows:

1. They discussed for sometime
the constitution of the Arts and
Science Society, and then passed the
motion that a committee of three be
appointed to investigate this constitution and make recommendations
The cemmittce ap
were Zilpha  Linkletter,
George Hagen, and Pete Nicholson.

2. A report was received from
turns from operating the Nickelodian. Motions were passed (1) that
/someone be given the job of caring
for the Nickelodian at all times and
ar every
achine was rented out, and
appoint
There was considerable discussion

|about the rate to be charged for

lending the Nickelodian. No general
decision was reached, although it
was decided to charge Delta Gamma
three dollars for the time they
used it.

3. The motion was passed that
the Dalhousie News Bulletin be
published every Tuesday morning.
Three applications were received for
the editorship of the bulletin, and
after some discussion the position
was awarded to Jack Noonan and
Ed. Morris.

4, A letter, about loss and
damage to Glee Club property, from
Professor Theakston was read. The
Council members found themselves
in complete agreement with the
opinions expressed in this letter,

 
 
 

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

- December 2, 1938

 

   

  

views expressed in rer column of The Gazette are those of the author; it cannot be

; ed that they represent the opinion of the student body.
RT GAZETTE STAFF
_ Editor: BERNARD 1A]

    
 
  
  

acer. eeie1
‘News Editor: WALTER MURPHY - - - ban News Editor: BARBARA MURRAY - -  H-5152
Sports Editor: DOUGLAS LYALL - - - - _ B-2607
Business Manager: SIDNEY A. GILLIES - -_ B-5487

Assistants: Jackie Cahan, Rita Harrison, Carl MacKenzie, Jim Milner,
_ Ed Morris, Betty Pearson, Henry Reardon.

; TEAMS AND WINNING TEAMS
m2, (Contributed)

_ It can be stated with truth that during the last three years
Dalhousie has become “Winning-Team”’ conscious. Much has
been said on the subject and the general opinion seems to be

that it is not a good idea to have as the object of university
training the production of a winning team. It is not sports-__mans-like to insist always on winning. It is not conducive to
_--—s«sthe greatest good for the greatest number. Therefore Dalae housie has done an about-face and given physical training the
—-—s object of developing each and every individual physique. Much
_--—s propaganda has been circulated to this effect, with the obvious
result that less and less attention is being paid to organized
| - team play. |
Wem geet With no thought of condemning the greatest good for the
_ greatest number, it is still just possible that an important point
is being missed. There are benefits for all in organized, welldirected team play. While the majority doesn’t object to a
little genteel shuffling on the gym or basketball floor, they
nevertheless like to feel allied with something which is better
than their own average. It is possible for them to accomplish
this if the best of them are chosen to form a unit for competitive play. Having produced such a unit they like to feel that
it is capable of standing well with other units from other
--—s« groups. In this way athletic teams serve as sources of inspiration and as ambassadors. Winning most certainly doesn’t matter. Playing well does. EE
Attempts to increase the numbers participating in athletic
activity, stimulated by a desire for improvement of their physieal well-being, have of necessity resulted in gym classes. A
- ¢ompetition of such classes is both limited and unwieldy and
therefore cannot hope to serve in place of a team. In future
let us not speak of “Winning Teams” with contempt in our
ir voices but rather of ‘“‘Teams’”’ with pride in our voices.

‘ve! PEACE AT CHRISTMAS
eat For thousands of years mankind has had festivals, and
____ there is probably no celebration which is more widely or more
____ geriously observed than that near the winter solstice. At this
time man expresses his gratitude for life, and his wonder at
its mystery and its continuous and repeated revival.
Beater Our cultural traditionhas kept ideas and ideals of Peace
~~: paramount at this season. The arrangement of the college year
a Ae and the caprice of history give Canadian students an oppory to enjoy Peace this Christmas. The peace that has been

 

- i mi mr: nA a ee . a aS
wi ge Fy aga ole -— “a =
= . 7 a ‘ ss Be
7 -e- _ ti 1 haa fs | Ss - _ .

ll

   

= ©,

 
 
   
   

np
‘
rt

~~ *
'

‘> = aa

‘
; a
ae
Pep es hy
ts

ea

- rh
a

  
 
 
 
      
   
   

  

    
 

7; we shall have freedom from the routine of
dies; we shall have opportunity to enjoy and
upon the many expressions of Peace that we know. To
_ : all'of’our vacation in “riotous living’ and to spurn peace
and quiet would not only indicate lack of gratitude for the
_-——s absence of war, but an insensibility to the revitalizing influence
_ Of-peace and contemplation when one is free from a daily

_ routine. And surely there is no one who would not find life

 
  
   
     
  

spend

a le

 

pet richer if he restored the sense of balance and perspective that
Aur are impaired by the rush of the fall term and the strain of exee aminations. With this in mind we extend Christmas greetings
Beit and the wish that your vacation may bring you the happiness
Ra and joy of Peace.
re

es ) Manfred Xyristes
W. E. FINBOW

Caesar shall forth with a heavy stride into the
can to shave
backward
Sweep surveying lord of all
shock and continents a cosmopolitan eye
something reddening on account of metabolism
awry—
You seem to require more exercise
accoutred as I was I plunged in
and bade him: so
; he would insist on musical ice cream cones
Bett 8 all the while reading Ewropa

ne Wagner Woolcott widderships Wilde
with a similar intonation
or a cylindrical pun always
‘it rebounded with its former elasticity’
straight in the gore
like a bull in a chinashop Swift
swiftly around the mount—ouch! when she comes when
I repudiate my abdication.
Blood! Blood! Blood!
ay Out damned spot two spot pair o’ bulls . . .
bao)? are yu in slut while I tune in bramms lullaby
SL So shall it be with scissors

splitting hairs upon labellum airs
_ Olympian, drool and drool and float across the eyebrow

  
 
 
  
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
    
   
  
  
  

iio ‘metropolic
ee with a considerable perfume over Styx
Winton the bloodstain toga wipes the gladiators
_-~-—-—s Sheathe their glittering blades and canter most uni #5 musical away.

 

__ 1 Manfred is an attempt to record a few casual impressions of a certain anecdotally musical gentleman late of this college. The situation is
_ obvious: he is ostensibly shaving, alternately feasting his eyes on the
dripping and divine features and hacking away at them, bawling out
operatic clichés between hacks. Lines 24-25 would seem to indicate a
_ moustache in anticipation. The method is strictly associational, involv~~ ing a judicious (sic) mingling of immediate aint recollected sensation.
Ate Looking for the imagery of infirmity in this case resembled a search for
_-___—_-Fesidence men in a bar room; they rise up in their myriads and smite one.
| pa The mock heroic references are to Caesar and Napoleon, Allah is merciful,
and there are seven direct plagiarisms. 3

en —Acta Victoriana.
3?
A. Yi J A

ee

a me f

: if. =
‘

  

i

provide Peer of mind and freedom from aj

\ALHOUSIE
IGEST
Grading:

Some of the younger students of
Dalhousie have many fantastic ideas
as is probably the case in any of our
Universities. One of the best we
think is a method of grading examination answers recently related by
an engineering student. He narrated: “The professor draws a chalk
line down the centre of the board to
the floor. He then goes to the rear
of the room with exam papers in
hand and after counting three hurls
them at the mark. Those falling on
the right are first divs, and those on
the left are the 40-60 class.” Sort
of a “sheep and goat” procedure.

Now and then we hear of discrimination by professors; sometimes
they are said to “have it in” for a
certain street, certain residence .. .
or particular group of students. All
of which is, of course, absurd.

 

It ain’t right:

Samuel Johnson said once: “No
man but a blockhead ever wrote except for money.” He didn’t know
us; but it is interesting and amusing

to see that Milton received about |
forty dollars for writing “Paradise |

Lost”, and Edgar Allan Poe ten
dollars for writing “The Raven”...

As for us, we’d rather be the guy)

to whom Poe wrote a letter about
how he wrote “The Raven” which
brought the recipient of that letter
eighteen thousand dollars.

 

Ouch:

It seems that last week two of our
Gazette writers were drawn into
conversation with one another in
front of the Library. The first
asked: “How did you like my last
line?” The second replied: “I
didn’t.” .. . “You didn’t like my last
line” persisted the compliment-fisher,
“why not?” ... “It was too far

away from the first’? was the retort. |

 

Perfect Prof.:

He must:

1. Be a pretender, and pretend
not to notice those who snore in the

uin and China is still with us; the conclusion of | 4k rows.

2. Change his jokes from year to
year.

3. Be unusual; for instance, wear
a leopard skin and do a hand-spring
now and then.

4. Be absent-minded. Forget his
tie or some other article of clothing
once in a while; or perhaps forget
to come sometimes.

 

Perfect Co-ed:

No man can live unto himself and
neither can a woman. To be a succesful female the co-ed must have
congeniality. One university man
here can be quoted: “A woman’s look
can freeze and her smile can melt.”
A university is, after all, a big home
where all are brothers and sisters
under the skin so why adopt the
“Have I been introduced to you?”
attitude.
about this defence mechanism of the
co-ed.

Contrary to the general consenus

of feminine opinion, the male does |
observe the attire of the co-ed. She |

must never, for instance, wear a
deep blue with a light green if she
wishes to be pleasing to the inner
eye of her male escort. “Accordion”
stockings are repulsive to the discriminative male so they must be
kept up. Clothes must also be worn
to suit the type... you know.

If she likes to smoke when with
a man she may do so, but she must
never suck on a cigarette and give
vent to a cloud of smoke in the face
of her escort. This is very distressing to a man.

A co-ed may take a chance on her
escort being a Socialist or a Communist, so she may, to make conversation, ask what is wrong with
Canada. She can light a cigarette
and nod encouragingly at intervals.
After this is over she may ask if he
believes in the immortality of the
soul, or divorce. When he is at a
loss for word then she may disagree
with him so that he can get off on
another angle. When he starts to
pull at his hair and has a wild look
in his eyes let her ask him if he
would like to dance to the radio.

A co-ed should always remember
that university men do not like: too
much lipstick; too little lipstick;

Males complain bitterly |

 

}

 

Obiter

There was a letter in the Gazette
two issues ago which purported to
come from one “Suffragette”. Apart
from the very interesting speculation as to whether the author, (it
(?) wishes to hide its light under
a bushel), is male or female, I can
see no particular cause for the subsequent action. Yet, if you belong
to the minority (oppressed?) who
read the Gazette, you will have observed the two interesting replies to
the innocuous letter of the previous
week.

The difficulty with the first letter
is to decide, from the written word,
(we have no other evidence) whether the author was for or agin women. “Suffragette”, with all due respect, appears to vacillate on that
point. He, she, or it has some doubt
on the matter.

Now the learned author of the letter in reply, who, we are pleased to
note, did not hesitate to sign her
name, has no doubt on the matter.
Surely after that letter the dear
“Suffragette” is convinced it was
half wrong, and maybe all wrong.

Down at the Effective Speaking
Club some weeks ago they put women in their place, very effectively,
as their name implies. Their difficulty was that the
make up their minds where women
belonged. They, too, were guilty of
vacillation. They were almost as bad
as the Film Society (Gosh, that
poem was a gem, in fact, a pearl—

I wonder why she didn’t sign her |
|/name?),

It is said that to change their

'minds is women’s prerogative. Well,
gosh, haven’t men got any rights at |
On that point both men and_|

all?
women can, I think, be classed as
mugwumps — animals having their
mugs on one side of the fence and
their wumps on the other. (Also,
according to Fowler, an American
word meaning a person professing
superiority in party politics. The
American definition is clearer than

Fowler’s, I think.). ,

men couldn’t |

|
;
|
;

 

 

Women like to think they are the |

equals of men (that’s the mug), but
they still expect us to remove our
hats in elevators (that’s the wump).
But I can easily see that I am treading where only a fool would go. In
this matter I think I’ll be a mugwump after Mr. Fowler’s interpretation.

*

x *

The Front Page

While we are on the subject of
last week’s correspondence, there
was the most unusual charge made
against our dear Editor. It was implied that he didn’t put out a front
page even remotely connected with
Dalhousie. Now I ask you? We
must all be sticklers for a certain
amount of accuracy. And I did take
the trouble to check the front page
of every copy this year. With the
exception of C.U.P. material, which |
is prima facie of interest to Univer- |
sity students, even those attending |
Dalhousie, only one item appeared
on the front page which wasn’t tied
up somehow with Dalhousie  students. That was a notice regarding
the Dalhousie Institute of Public
Affairs, which I suppose is a foreign
society. Not like the Film Society,
which is rather intangible, but
nevertheless at least remotely connected with some students. I think
if we could have discovered two nonDalhousian features on the first
page we might have allowed “Sufferer to pursue his cause, but as it
is, I move for a non-suit.

Speaking of moving reminds us

 

 

that Christmas is coming, which explains why we feel so charitable
(i.e., less critical than usual), or do
we? It’s not hard today to end on
a Christmas note: the weather is so
wintry. However, as we are in Halifax I can’t vouch for what it will
be like when Friday rolls around,
so I'll merely wish you the compliments of the season, rain or snow.
And good luck.

 

J. B. M.

LE

mascaraed eyes and livid finger
nails. They shun powdered lapels.
Co-eds are warned to avoid these
extremities in cosmetics at all times.

We take off our hats to the
modern co-ed who is ever striving to
be a fit and congenial mate to the

university man!

 

 

“What's your hurry?”
“Everybody's asking for Sweet Caps!”

SWEET CAPORAL CIGARETTES

“The purest form in which tobacco can be smoked.”

SELECT

your

CHRISTMAS
CANDY

A MERRY | NOW |
CHRISTMAS atic saie ee
TO YOU ALL

The

Green Lantern

 

|

456-460 Barrington St. _

 

 

407-409 Barrington St.

 

 

 

A Profession Worth Considering

During the past few years many university
graduates have recognized the merits of life
insurance salesmanship as a profession, and have
made it their life work. Intelligent, well-educated
young men, faced with the important duty of
choosing a career, are invited to investigate the
opportunities offered by The Mutual Life of
Canada, Canada’s oldest and largest “mutual” life
insurance company, which has room among its
sales force for additional men.

 

Our nearest Branch Manager, or the Head Office
at Waterloo, Ontario, will be glad to give you full
particulars regarding the company, and qualifica
tions for representation.

Waterloo, Ont.

 

OF CANADA

Home Office Established 1869

 

 

EATON’S

These for Gifts

or Personal Use...

MUFFLERS

of Wools, Silks and Rayons
... Plaids, Paisleys and
other designs, also plain
colours.

 

 

 

715c to 3.50

Mufflers men really like! Husky
mufflers that make warm friends
of wintry days—plenty of real
silks and rayons for the man
who wants a “dressier” touch in
his muffler. You’ll want more
than one when you se them.

 

Eaton’s—Main Floor

C2

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
  
  

i

“The doctor who first introduced me

to “The Story of San Michele” by Dr.

Axel Munthe, (Dutton: 1929-1937,

_-584 pp. at the Book Room, $2.50)
| expressed great surprise that F had
rt not already read it, and remarked
that, practically everyone else had. I

“ee

have been told since of another
doctor who keeps two copies on

hand, one for his own use and one

to lend to his friends. Nevertheless,
many medical students have not read
this book, which cannot fail to hold
the attention of any doctor, and
some even express an ignorance of
its existence. So it is that I have
no hesitation in offering these com
’ ments on the man and the book at

Story of San Michele. In his intro
 
  
 
  
    
 
  
       
   
   
   
   

; & *

Pee es ead Certainly if one is to con
ae

0

pone
4


Lite

;

v

itp 2 what Dr. Munthe has done is to put

ee

fe Y ie history that might legitimately be
told, and often he has included deiv tail of events which can only be de
bir

or all of his narrative, and without

,

this late date, over a decade after
its first appearance. “The Story of
San Michele” is now in its one hundred-twenty-first printing, and over
380,000 have read the amazing story.
If youre looking for a Christmas
present which must make a hit,
select this book.

Any reviewer is bound to have
difficulty in attempting to classify
this story for the simple reason that
no other book just like it has ever

appeared. The closest approach 1}
have seen is Halliday Sutherland’s

“Arches of the Years”, which had
to be described itself as the British

‘duction to the American edition the
author remarked upon this difficulty
but offers no suggestion himself.

The book has been called “The
Memoirs of a Doctor, the Autobiography of Dr. Munro, and the Story
of Death”. Of these Dr. Menthe
suggests the third as the most appropriate because, he says: “Death
‘is seldom out of my thoughts.” I
humbly and respectfully submit that
the title of this article covers the
situation as well as any. Actually

hi personality down on paper, withtoo particular attention

+ = <7
‘paying
fs

+ this an autobiography much

s been included that would be
ut, and much that might be
d in, another autobiography

viously cannot be put in
s lif story of a doctor while his
ents are still alive. Nor has the
thor included all the details of his

  

 

ob

scribed as pure fantasy.
‘It is only fair to add that the doctor does not ask you to believe any

believing it or even supposing Dr.
Munthe believed it, the reader can
easily appreciate the richness of the
author’s imagination.

In his preface the author gives as
his reason for writing the story the
fact that all other cures for insomnia having failed, he followed his
friend Henry James’ advice and began to write this book. In passing
I would recommend that no one who
may read the book as a result of

f : i Book Review

  
   

A Doctor Looks at Life and Death

this review do so without first reading author’s preface, a part of a
book that many readers often omit.

Dr. Munthe begins his story as a
medical student in Paris in the last
century under the famous Charcot.
He is by birth a Swede, but he considers himself a French doctor,
something of a nerve specialist. His
story is full of entertaining anecdotes about his friends and patients,
but it is not because of these anecdotes, interesting as they are, that
“The Story of San Michele” is of
such great value as a book. Rather
it is because of the personal philosophy which the doctor expresses in
his story.

His acquaintance with Guy de
Maupassant’s sex orgies are of
much greater significance. The fact
that Dr. Munthe was given a medal
by the Italian government for his
work in the earthquake at Messina
is of historic interest in the chron
‘icles, but his letter to the Swedish
‘legation explaining why he could

only accept a medal if he felt he had

done nothing to merit it is much

more readable.

He may have been party to a
most disgraceful blunder in carrying the body of a Russian Duke to

Sweden instead of a Swedish lad,

but the philosophy at the end of
that chapter, (The Corpse-Conductor, p. 192), is more illustrative of
Dr. Munthe than the deed itself.
Although he did kiss Suora Ursula at the death-bed of the Abbess
of the Convent Sepolte Vive, in his
relations with women the doctor
was above petty criticism. His discursive remarks (beginning on page
183) on women are not merely the
reflection of a period, but the truth
of experience. Ultimately perhaps
it is not so much the expression as
the manner of the expression of
these views that gives “The Story
of San Michele” its charm. The

beauty of its style lies in the au
thor’s novel approach to his sub
ject. His imagination is always just
beneath the surface and very frequently it rises to cloak material

reality and the reader is lost in fantasy Even the occasional use of
Italian and French does not compli
cate but really adds to the color of

the work.

You may have been wondering
what all this has to do with San
Michele. I think that perhaps San
Michele is the least prominent part
of the book, yet a vitally essential
part which must be constantly borne
in mind. In his travels as a student
Dr. Munthe visited the isle of Capri
where lay the ruins of San Michele,
an old Roman chapel. It became
Munthe’s great desire to live and die
in a San Michele reconstructed by
his own hands.
the book, written from the old tower
at Anacapri, were: :“My head sank
on St. Francis’ shoulder. I was dead
and I did not know it.”

J. B, M.

 

e. How They Say

ay

in Se

They Love You

AND IT’S ALL A LIE

The schoolboy: “You’re not half

 

ae : bad, considering you’re only a girl.”

>

a.

aN

*
«

oh ’

2 te 4,
eae

The business man: “I’d like you
to meet the wife. You’d have a lot
in common. Unfortunately she’s
down in Atlantic City with the kiddies just now!”

Rich man: “I wouldn’t for the
world spoil your charming independence.”

Athlete: “I don’t believe marriage
NECESSARILY ruins one’s game.”

Clergyman: “It is astonishing how
vividly you recall my dear mother

to me.”

Writer: “Of course, no woman
could satisfy every side of my nature.”

Stockbroker: “Most women — my

whee wife especially—don’t realize that
-*‘Y'm a bit of an idealist.”

Ro

=
hea
bi

e+ 7 ’
a

a
i

r

i _— *
ty

i

or

ee

think we could manage all right on

College Graduate: “You don’t
_know how lucky you are to have a

_ job just now, babe. Lots smarter

people than you are out of work. |

|‘: your salary, dear.”
eis 05>. 8 —Sally in The Sheaf.

Red Rose Formals

 

Syracuse, New York—A lone red
rose, the symbol of charity and
holiday giving, has become the
campus byword, as University of
Syracuse fraternities, sororities,, and
living centres continue to adopt the
student emergency loan fund plan
for Red Rose Formals.

According to the new plan co-eds
attending these dances will be presented with a single red rose rather
than a corsage by their escorts, who
will purchase the rose from the loan
fund committee. Returns from the
sale of the roses will be given to the
student emergency loan fund for distribution among needy students.

The loan fund which is administered by a student-faculty committee, is a revolving sum from
which all students may draw in case
of emergency. Last year more than
$9,000 was loaned to students.

Mary had a little lamb,

Some salad and dessert,

And then she gave the wrong
address,

The wicked little flirt.

 

His last words in|

es

OUR HATTIE

By PATTER

“The Gazette is over for just now,

No more paper we allow,

Exams are coming soon, we trow,

And we have to do our work you
know,”

Sings Hattie.

Hattie says the Freshman Frolic
was loads and loads of fun, Everyone was soaking wet by the time
they got there so she didn’t bother
to go. At any rate she heard from
her little pals what a time they had
and was very put out that we had
not let her drag out that poor benighted Frosh she had in view.
After all there are limits!

Hattie loves the snow. She has
been for two sleigh rides already
(and we’re NOT counting all the
other rides she has been taken for
on the campus.

Hattie is having a dreadful time
thinking of her Christmas presents
and such. She says she simply can’t
afford 880 cards for the student
body, so will they all forgive her.
She sends everyone a slap on the
back for their coming ordeals in the
exams.

CHEERIO!

Pine Hill Billets

DEAN:

The Residence has a new Dean.
Mr. Andrews, who has received the
appointment, is well known to many
at Dal, which he attended a few
years ago. Having passed through
all the stages of academic evolution while a resident here, he is able
to understand the student mind. He
is a psychologist and well equipped
to deal with any problems of conduct with which the student body
of the Residence may not (though
very unlikely) be able to cope.

In his address to the Residents
he pointed out how cosmopolitan is
the student body—how different
spirits and ideas are brought to
gether here—Mt. A., U.N.B., Mem
orial, Prince of Wales, etc — and
how these all go to make up the
dominant traditional Pine Hill spirit.

* * *

PARTING:

If you had been standing nearby
you would have heard the following
conversation which took place at
Shirreff Hall Monday night, following the big Pine Hill event at the
Waegwoltic Club:

She: “Good night, and thanks a
lot. I had a lovely time.”

He: “Oh, that’s all right, I had a
swell time, too. Goo’ night.”

She: “Good night. Thanks again.
It was swell.”

He: “O. K., I had a good time.”

She: “Call me some time. It was
simply grand.”
He: “Yeah, sure. I'll do that.

Goodbye, I had a fine time, too.”
She: “Me, too. Well, good-bye,

and thanks again. It was lovely.”
He: “O.K. S’long. It was swell.

Goo’ night.”
*

* *

THEOLOG COMPLEXES:
A. Dan Matheson’s black hat.
B. Ernie Barrett’s “I was preaching in Newfoundland for fifteen
years, don’t you know?”
C. Clifford Stewart’s:
edifying.”
D. Stan MacQueen’s “God-send.”
E. Nicky MacLeod’s boots.

*

“It isn’t

* *

THINGS OF THE PAST:

A. Bill Murray’s Saturday Evening Post at 81 Henry Street.

B. One Ballem—now there’s two.

C. Harry Lauder’s fire-crackers.
Praise be!

D. Red (Silas) Black’s jokes.

George H.: “I locked the car up
before we left and now, confound it,
I’ve lost the key.”

Joan B. (Helpfully): “Well, never
mind, dear. It’s a fine night. We
can ride home in the rumble seat.”

 

Betty: “Do you have any green
lipstick ?”
Clerk: “Green lipstick?”
Betty: “Yes, a railroad man is going to call on me tonight.”
—The Sheaf.

Page Threé

 

Advice to the Lovelorn

Miss Spry:

I am writing, not, as you probably expect, to beg your senseless advice, but to voice my opinion of you
and the rest of your silly sex. Why
any man worthy of the name stoops
to such actions as ‘affaires d’amour”
is more than a man of my intelligence can comprehend. I never imagined that such things as flirtations were carried on at this university until, by sheer accident, I happened to read your column. I was
genuinely shocked, Miss Spry, and I
am not a man who is easily shocked,
for I am a man of the world, and
have had wide experience in these
affairs—experience which I gained
in the days when I knew no better.

I have been out with three different women. My first experience
occurred when I was a mere lad of
twenty-six. Ah, but I was a gay
young blade! I actually dared to
put my arm around her waist, expecting, naturally, that she would
scream, or faint from fright. But
no, she merely giggled. I was, as
you may expect, sadly disillusioned,
especially since this distressing experience has been borne out twice.
I had no choice but to conclude that
no women are ladies. You no doubt
consider it daring of me to bare my
intimate moments before the prying eyes of the world, and will probably censor the bold words.

Another conclusion I have reached during my years of experience is
that members of the so-called fairer
sex have no brains. Why, the most
intelligent one I could find (she
used to get B on her themes) could
not expound LHinstein’s theory of
relativity.

So now, Miss Spry, I get my
recreation reading Cicero an hour
a day (two hours on Sunday). I
am writing a book to be called
“Utopia Virorum”, or “The Wolf in
Sheep’s Clothing is usually a woman in a Persian Lamb coat”.

And now I want to appeal to the
sterner sex of this university to
give up all associations with women.
I assure you that you will find
problems in higher calculus far
more thrilling.

TELLWITH DAMES, ESQ.

My Dear Tellwith Dames, Esq.:

I do not propose to waste the editor’s valuable space, and my own
valuable time (ah me, nine more
studying days until Christmas) in
an entirely superfluous attempt to
defend the fairer sex—that they are
the fairer sex is sufficient justification for them.

So the young ladies giggled when
you put your arm around their
waists? You should know better
than to tickle them on such an occasion. My dear young man, it is
your technique, and not the young
ladies, which is to blame. Send me
a stamped, self-addressed envelope,
or callany of the inmates of B-9746,
and you will notice an amazing improvement within a very short time.
Soon the girls won’t giggle, they’ll
sigh.

You flatter yourself that you get
your recreation from Cicero. I hate
to disillusion you, but you seem to
be blissfully unaware of the fact
that you are not reading Cicero
from choice. The simple truth is
that no young lady has thought you
sufficiently desirable to bother her
pretty little head about you. I have
yet to hear of an affaire d’amour
where the man has made the first
move.

As for your appeal to the men of
this university to give up all associations with women—my dear fellow,
you’ve got the wrong party. No
man is proof against a designing
woman; if you don’t believe me wait
until some little minx has designs
about you. Your fall will doubtlessly
cause a minor earthquake.

If I were reduced to reading
Cicero in my spare moments, I
would not flatter myself—I would
take immediate steps to remedy the
situation. If you find problems in
higher calculus thrilling, just you
wait! Life has many things in
store for you.

Sincerely,

SALLY SPRY.

Our society editor knows a girl
who’s wanted by the police—and the
firemen and sailors, too.

—The Manitoban

 

 

THE TEN SINS OF MEN

By BLANCHE R. CLARKE

Men are fortunate in that their clothes, having less variety in
style and color than those of the fair sex, are less subject to

criticism.

It is true that women do not like to see men wearing a

non-matching coat and trousers combination; but it is the general

appearance of a suit, rather than its details, that count.

The real

sins that leave the lords of creation at home the night of the Co-eds’

Ball follow herewith:
La
a

Socks rolled down or allowed to wrinkle around the ankles.
Wearing a tweed suit to a dance.

If you cannot think of a

better way to wreck the girl friend’s epidermis, try a three-day
- beard (simply ideal for the cheek-to-cheek type of dancing ).

3. Excessive smoking. Nicotined fingers are pretty bad, but

the prize goes to the male who carries ever with him that pipe with

a large, bad smell.

4. Untidiness in shirts, ties and hair.

of having slept fully clothed.
5.

That general appearance

Failure to consider the girl friend’s tastes and suggestions

in planning an evening’s entertainment.

6.
together.
out that.


Fastening a vice-like grip on her arm when out walking
The modern gal can keep both feet on the ground with
Lack of courtesy; failure to help the girl friend out of the

car; neglecting her for other friends, in public; at a party, failure to
spend a portion of the evening with the hostess (this ranks high,
men). Lighting a pipe or cigarette without first asking permission

of the ladies present is another bad break.

girls who do not smoke.)

(Yes, there are still

8. Acting the life of the party. There are subtler ways of
killing a girl other than boring her to death.

9.

Vulgarity—making wise cracks in public about the daring

evening dresses being worn; howling with laughter when someone
hums a frat song; telling smutty stories in mixed company.

10. Cynicism—especially when directed against the fair sex.
(Oh, you know what these women are!)

—The Manitoban.

 

 

Will Compete in

Drama Festival

 

EDMONTON, Alberta,
“Helena’s” Husband”,

(CUP)—
a Greek

comedy, is the presentation of the
University of Alberta’s Dramatic
Club in the sub-regional dramatic
festival to be held in the Convocation Hall of the University.

Model: “Whatever happened to
that old beer mug you used to have
around the house?”

Artist: “Oh, I divorced her
Reno last fall.”—The Manitoban.

in

 

He (admiringly): “What a wonderful shape to your bustle, my
dear.”

She: “I have no bustle.”

—The Manitoban.

 

 

   

for

 

t
With everything gay and
bright for Christmas,
“you'll enjoy shopping at
Simpsons”. Often a tele
phone call will suffice—
L-2311.

If College has

made her wiser... .

she’ll want Kayser Tailored
Suede-fabric Gloves with contrasting stitching and a single
large button at the _ back.
Smart colors--terra cotta with
white, wine with strawberry,
black with white. Also chamois color without contrast.
Sizes: 6 to 7%.

lf he has
a book...

give him Book Ends. Simpsons has spirited Scotty styles
—in wood at 69c; in china at
75¢e; wood-and-chrome at $1.

Wisps of
Loveliness...

are chiffon scarves, with dainty rainbow stripes or printed

designs. Straight style at $1
to $1.98.
We also have sheer wool

squares at 79c and straight
wool scarves at $1 to $1.98.

No one but a
miser could resist

yet tt mala
quality.

 

e Aittractively

aged.

ry Vr reii a ie els
every. taste.

Priced from 50c

Telephone L-2311

pack
 

The Robert Simpson Eastern Ltd.

 

Council vs. Ubyssey

 

Vancouver, B.C., (CUP)—University of British Columbia’s Students’
Council will meet the staff of the
“Ubyssey”, official student publication, in pitched battle on the basketball floor. Every effort will be made
to quell expected riots, and to preserve the dignity (?) and reserve
(??) of both the eminent societies.
In a special motion, the Council
ruled “That no knuckle-dusters will
be allowed during the ‘first half’ ”.

 

 
  
 
   
    
   

bee

re
e)
j
fi

 
  
     

ee ie }
ne ;
* a
eee Sa
rary

 

¢

 

, ie a

own seats.

 

 

's in France show two pohl
groups fighting for control
the State—the Four Hundred
milies vs. The Confederation of
To understand the problem
we Seat examine French constitu- tional practice. In France the resignation of a cabinet is not followed
by the dissolution of the Chamber
of Deputies. As a result Jean
Durant, a party unto himself, and
other like deputies, can overthrow a
eabinet. without endangering their
It is somewhat of a
pastime. Add to this the multiplicity of French parties, the corrupt
nature of French politics, a press
which prostitutes itself to the highest bidder, and one can see how
difficult it has been for cabinets,
- good, bad or indifferent, to survive.

Other factors are the Senate,
which is the stronghold of Conservatives and the coupon clippers,
possessing veto powers, and the
civil service (of a conservative
tinge), one of the real powers in
France because of the weakness of
the Cabinet.

To return to events of the past
and present: The first Popular
Front Government under Leon
Blum and Edouard Herriot, took
office with the intention of limiting
the power of certain industrial and
financial interests (Comité des
Forges for example) who were exploiting their position to the detriment of that state and injuring those
classes which the Popular Front
purported to represent. The Government aimed in a sense to increase
the strength of those outside the
Four Hundred Families. Progressive taxation, aimed at the upper
classes, was attempted and labor
laws were passed including the wellknown forty-hour week. France’s

neial position however became
increasingly dangerous as powerful
- financial groups continued to depreciate the value of the franc by
_ speculating. Wealthy tax dodgers

% continued | their activities, and all the

while foreign capital was being with
drawn,

‘This resulted in part from strikes |
and labor violence, begun against
Blum’s wishes, an example of labor
stupidity. Attempts to stop tax
dodging and speculation, and to reform the finances were blocked by
the Senate. Blum was followed by
Camille Chautemps, a little less
radical, who, like succeeding pre
_miers, could do little, while the same

forces were at work. The big difficulty in France is that capital and
labor are so bitterly opposed. The
forces of reaction are in control, but
are battling an inevitable change,
which will probably come after the
next war to save dividends. Labor
is battling for more francs per
week; in short—material advantages.

Leadership on both sides has been
poor. And by the way, don’t kid
yourself into thinking that the
domination of labor and friendly
groups would mean peace on earth,
etc. It would probably result in the
opposite. Today, Daladier, backed
by the Right and the Center, is attempting to patch up the financial
situation and speed up the rearmament of Franc. The forty-hour
week, now abolished by modification,
must go by the board; but something
should be done to prevent manufacturing interests from charging al
most prohibitive prices for planes,

guns, etc.

_ The present program of the
Daladier Government places the
financial burden of French reconstruction and rearmament more
heavily on those classes which are

. least able to bear such a load.
Armament manufacturers and finan
cial manipulators will still be able
to profit exorbitantly by the nation’s
need. For these reasons the French
Confederation of Labor is bitterly
opposing the government’s program,
and meanwhile France steadily falls

behind Germany in production of

planes and guns. Civil war may result as in Spain, or a Daladier
dictatorship. As to war with Germany (soon to be waged by Britain,
France, and the Dominions _perhaps?) we would not be surprised if
the French army and air force
cracked, and more Canadian “dupes”
were slaughtered at another Vimy to
save democracy’s dividends.

 

December, 1900.

As has been customary in past
years the Freshmen and the Freshettes set apart a day on which to
go down and amuse the camera. It

might be mentioned incidently that
this is a day keenly watched for by
the Sophs. Wednesday was the day
chosen by the Freshmen and arrayed
in their gaudiest they trooped down
to Gauvin and Gentzel’s. The Sophs.
had not been on the watch in vain
and soon appeared carrying in their
midst a poor forgotten Freshie clad
in his night-clothes. The Freshmen
were somewhat taken by surprise
but soon the street in front of the
studio was the scene of indiscriminate slaughter and carnage. South
Park St. never saw before such a
display of fistic science and for a
full hour the victory hung in the
balance until the Sophomores, by
brute force alone, won the day.

 

We believe that there are no two
opinions among Dalhousians as to
the desirability of Dalhousie taking
an active interest in all seasonable
sports. We already give football
considerable attention, so why should
we not take up the national winter
game? There has been considerable
talk about a University hockey team
during the last two or three years
but nothing has come of it. Would
it not be well for the D.A.A.C. to
take this matter up and thoroughly
discuss it at a meeting held for that
purpose?

 

December, 1910.

Part of this issue was dedicated to
the memory of R, W. MacLellan,
who died that winter while playing
football for the University. it was
towards the end of the game when
he fell on the muddy field and broke
his spine. ‘Though he was paralyzed
from the shoulders down he lived
for about a week. He was twentytwo and had already finished his
professional training.

 

Mock Parliament. |

The Hon. Mr. Keefe, Minister of
Finance, in an earnest address moyed the second reading of a bill giving

women the right of suffrage. At the

close of the debate Mr. Ralston, the
leader of the opposition, moved a
vote of want of confidence in the
Government. This matter was carried and thus both the government
and the bill for women’s suffrage
were thrown out,

 

December, 1920.

There was a long letter in the
Gazette from Prof. H. L. Stewart
asking the students for their support
in the proposed launching of the

“Dalhousie Review.” .

 

Be at the big hockey game Friday
night at the Arena. Dalhousie plays
our old rivals, the Wanderers. It is
expected that the Glee Club will
keep the air warm with college yells
and songs.

 

Bowes—The battle of Legnono
was fought in 1171.

Prof. Willson—Who between, Mr.
Bowes ?

Bowes—Oh, between the Emperor
Frederick and—let me see—and the
forces opposed to him.

 

December, 1930.

Resuming an activity initiated last
winter, Sodales Debating Society
staged a half-hour radio broadcast
over CHNS on Friday evening. The
programme took the form of a debate on the subject, “Resolved that
the Radio Audience favors a tax on
Bachelors”. This half-hour programme of “Dalhousie on the Air” is
the first of a series which will be
presented throughout the winter
months.

 

It was proposed to make Munro
Day, or Founder’s Day, an important
day in the college year.

In the meantime we commend to
our imperialistic friends and our
emotional democrats the smooth
baloney of Mr. Beverly Baxter. In
about another year we'll be hearing
stories of German atrocities via
Baxter and another news commentator heard in these parts. Listen
to half truths now while you may.

Sronic Choughts

By P. A. B.

If it must be and she must

Into her arms, what matter?

lure us all
Muscles can run

Hot from those bloodless pavements as from Rome.

She need not fret: she shall be greatly welcome:

She will well grace the solemn spread of city

And of farm. Stars will shine sweeter for

Her moving under them: music will be

Magic with the sound of her: knowledge will laugh: beauty
Will boldly burn: wisdom will be comely as the sun.

 

She need not fret: so she but red her lips
And like the wind come winnowing among

The lowly dwelling-spots of
Moving her limbs like some

men and beasts,
slow sarabande,

We shall be flame. We are nor good nor wise,
And she is kind: one love to us is fragrant

As another.

We will not forget our God,

The sweet soul of our new and hopeful time,
The quietude that has nor age nor period...

She need not fret: we are but children still:
She shall have lovers far more passionate
Than any that ran out of Athens’ shade

To seek her lips.

—The Varsity, 1935.

 

 

Freshman Soliloquy

 

Don’t get the idea that we didn’t
learn anything in school. We learned that a preposition is not a good
thing to end a sentence with. Oh,
yes, we learned that money is a
medium of exchange, but if anything
was said about how to get hold of
any, we can’t recall it now.

But despite the broad sweep of our
academic knowledge, (quod erat demonstrandum ab vice versa, oui,
oui?) still we have found that our
book learning has not proven uniformly satisfactory. For some reason, it is the things we picked up
outside the “Athenian groves” that
now seem to us the most interesting.
These bits of information may not
be important as the more ponderous
facts which our philosophy teachers
revealed as Truth with a capital T.
Our brains seem to have been filled
with such trivia as have accidentally
caught in the ruts of our brains
while the greater litter of information was blown on through our mind.
Such bits as we can rake out of our
mental trash pile without probing
too deeply are to be found below

among the things we never learned |

in school, to wit:

That Redskin hubbies are never
supposed to look at their motherin-law; that monks in the Middle
Ages were permitted to bathe only
at Christmas and Easter; that books
of the seventeenth and eighteenth
centuries warned readers against
washing with water because it made
the face too sensitive;
in the State of Kansas, passed in
|1859, forbade the sale of liquor to

married men whose wives objected |

to their drinking; that the crease

 

that a law!

Triolet -To A Beautiful Lady

 

|I’m sorry I can’t come to tea;

I’d come, but I can’t possibly

Since I don’t love you desperately;

I’m sorry I can’t come to tea.

The fact of your proximity

Might prove perhaps too much for

me;

You’d want to kiss me, so you see,

I’m sorry I can’t come to tea.
—Hal Taylor, in The Varsity.

 

| He: “There’sa certain reason why
I like you.”

She: “My goodness!”

He: “Don’t be ridiculous”.

—The Sheaf.

down the front of your pants (for
FreshMEN only) was originated in
Victorian days by the manufacturers
to facilitate packing them; that
there are more than 4,000 different
ways of spelling Shakespeare’s
name; that all race-horses have the
same birthday, Jan. Ist; that fifty
percent of people getting married
today are men; that there are
6,227,020,800 ways of arranging the
thirteen cards in any bridge hand;
that more than $35,000,000 has been
spent in advertising Lydia Pinkham’s cast-iron smile; that a pig
has four toes on each foot; that a
bluenose is really a snobbish person,
not what you think; that you don’t
pronounce the “‘d” in “handkerchief”;
that a “punka” is a fan.

We could go on and on and on and
| on ..., but right now we have to
rush over to the Library to find out

 

 

| what makes the wind blow.

WHY NOT ENJOY

 

 

ONE EVERY DAY 2?

C.3715

 

December 2, 1938

 

New Books

Newman, Bernard—
Danger Spots in Europe.

“This book is intended for the
important but elusive person, the
Man-in-the-Street. He is the person
most vitally concerned with the
problems of Europe. . . European
problems, allowed beyond control,
have a habit of leading to war. The
Man-in-the-Street, if he is under
forty, will have the privilege of
fighting and dying in the next war.

. And, whatever his age, the
Man -in-the-Street will have the
pleasure of paying for the next war,
as he is still paying for the last. On
the excellent principle of pay-thepiper, call-the-tune, therefore, he is
entitled to know what the next war
is likely to be about.”

 

Simonds, Frank H. & Emeny, Brooks.
The Price of Peace.

Seton-Watson, Robert W.

Britain and the Dictators.
“Survey of post-war British policy.”
Allyn, Emily.

Lords ys. Commons.

Jennings, William Ivir.

Parliamentary Reform.

Cole, David H.

Imperial Military Geography.
“General characteristics of the
Empire in relation to defence.”

Walker, A. Stanley.

Canada.

Deutsch, Babette.

This Modern Poetry.
Palmer, Herbert E.

Post-Victorian Poetry.
Bullough, Geoffrey.

The Trend of Modern Poetry.
Campbell, Roy.

The Georgiad.

“Here is brilliant, stinging ridicule of the various stereotyped
cults in contemporary literature,
ending with an amazing estocade
of the Eros-in-spectacles-and-jaeger combinations, the love-god of
modern literary journalism and of

the vast, if vague, society of stereotyped literary amateurs and
back-scratchers, commonly known
as Bloomsbury, who more or less
regulate the literary journalism of
the whole country.”
Donnelly, Francis P.
Literature, the Leading Educator.
Streatfield, Richard A.
The Opera.
“A Sketch of the Development of
all works in the modern repertory.”

Of interest to students of social
and political sciences:

West, Edward.
Essay on the Application of
Capital to Land.
Fisher, A. G. B.
The Class of Progress and
Security.
Kuznets, Simon, S.
National Income and Capita]
Formation,
Walter, W. F.
Das Experiment Roosevelts.
Levy, H.
The New Industrial System.
Florence, P. S.
The Logic of Industrial Organization.
Marquand, H. A.
The Dynamics
Combination,
Wallace, D. H.
Market Control in the Aluminum Industry.
Buell, R. L.
The Hull Trade Program.
Kahn, D. C.

Unemployment and Its Treatment

in the United States.

Clare, G.
The A.B.C. of the Foreign Exchanges.

Thomas, Brinley.

..Monetary. Policy. and. Crises.
“A Study of Swedish Experience,”

Arnold, A. Z.
Banks, Credit,
Soviet Russia.

of Industria!

and Money in

a mh a ee

“So your brother is a painter, eh?”
“Yep.”

“Paints houses, I presume?”
“Nope, paints men and women.”
“Oh, I see, a portrait painter.”

“Nope. Paints ‘women’ on one
door, and ‘men’ on the other.”

—The Manitoban.

 

A comely coloured girl had just
been baptized in the river. As soon
as she came to the surface she cried,
“Bless de Lawd, I’se saved. Last
night I was in ahms of Saton, bu‘
tonight Ah’m in the ahms of de
Lawd!”

“Sistah,” came a baritone voice
from the shore, “How is you-all
fixed up foh tomorra ebening ?”

—The Sheaf.

 

GAUVIN AND GENTZEL

Photographers to Dalhousie University

Special Rates to Students — 24 Hour Finishing Service

18 SPRING GARDEN ROAD

Phone B 6992

 

oO
(

    
  

 

eeuee

 

Your GIFT

   
     
    
        
       
      

Men’s Dressing Gowns.
Cashmere or Camelhair.

Men’s Fitted Toilet Sets.

 

for traveling.

toilet articles.
Men’s House Coats.

Women’s Fitted O’Nite Cases.
styles in leather or striped tweed cases with modern

Flannel, Brushed Wool, Velvet,
Silk and Wool or Camelhair.

The finest stock of men’s wear, Baggage, Novelties
and Dress wear in Eastern Canada.

COLWELL BROTHERS, Ltd.

THE ENGLISH SHOP
453-457 Barrington Street

PROBLEM

Christmas, 1938

Call at Colwells’ this year for the largest assortment of |
quality gifts we have ever shown.

Silk, Flannel Wool, Velvet,

Zipper cases of fine leathers
fitted with chrome and ebony toilet articles.

Essential

An ideal gift. New

 
 
 
   
 
  
   
   
   
  
    
 
 
   
   
  
   
   
    
   
 
  
  
     
  
  
   
    
  
   
 
  
 
 
   
   
  
  
 
 
 
    
  
  
 
  
  
   
 
 
 
   
   
   
   
   
  
 
  
   
  
  
  
  
  

“Youth Hostels

. | as: "THEY. ARE tels are varied and include log cabRi nh Hostels are inexpensive | ins on farms and ranches, an Indian
school, Indian tepees, private homes
»|and the Y.W.C.A. at Banff. ©

The Canadian Youth Hostels Association now has a Federal charter
and is prepared to extend activities
across the Dominion. They were admitted: to membership in the International Youth Hostels Association
as the twentieth member at its Conference in Paris last fall, so that
members of the CYH on presentation of their membership card may
stay at any of the 4500 youth hostels throughout the world.

IN NOVA SCOTIA

As for Youth Hostels in Nova
Scotia. Overnight accommodation at
six cents apiece, as is the average
in Europe, cannot be expected. Nor
can there be confidently established
in the woods a camp, such as the
writer saw just the other day in the
Mount Mansfield region of Vermonth—stove, bunks, mattress, fuel,
shining kitchen ware and camp
crockery in plenty, and an invitation
to make oneself at home, nailed upon the door!!

A start might be made with an
association of existing permanent
camps; for the rest, a farm-house
inland; on the seacoast some fisherman’s dwelling, carefully selected
-|for position and more carefully for
its occupants; in the forest, a group
of log-cabins, the gift of some lumber company; or as a novelty, an
attraction peculiar and suitable to
Nova Scotia, anchored in the harbors a schooner,—one of the many
laid up in these times,—with galley
in order and bunks below, a float
for swimming and diving, and perhaps a couple of small boats for
those who wish to explore the coves!

Possibly proposals for the coming winter season would meet with
the most immediate response. North
of Truro run the Cobequid hills, that
lie like a barrier across the isthmus
of Nova Scotia from the Bay of
Fundy to the Northumberland
Straits, with summits of a thousand feet or more and a general elevation above six hundred. These
‘hills: end in Pictou County, where at
ad; Mount: Dalhousie open | slopes, the

ee ee Pe

 
   
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
   
  
  

a father worda’ in any. way as
z as it is under their own steam)

feaGate supervision wih a
father and housemother in
rg The hostel has separate
leeping quarters, washing and toilet
a facilities, for boys and girls and is
ly equipped with double decker

- wooden bunks, straw mattresses and
__ blankets. There is a common kitchen
where the hostelers can prepare
the own meals and a common
; recreation room where they gather
r, i for an evening of song, folk daneing and gay chatter:

Om _ The houseparents greet the hos-|.
Ps b - teler who presents his Pass (a mem/ bership card which costs $2.00 a
year for those over 21 and $1.00 for
those under 21) and registers in the
5 rf a hostel book. Hostelers respect the
a hostel customs formed by the youth
Ro themselves and uniform in all hostels
as,
7? ‘

‘ --usue
Pw.

i
co
Ah

; eS if

of the world. These are based on
_ the needs of hostel living and consideration of the group. A spartan
ii regime of self service, early bed
a hours, an early start, simple food,
and no smoking and drinking is
ies essential for a full enjoyment of

| .  hosteling.

e

GROWTH

The Youth Hostel idea originated
Fy in Germany, and after the war,
- France, Belgium, Holland, Norway,
England and other countries caught
a “ee FS spirit of youth hosteling. Today
5 ere are 4500 youth hostels in 20
a countries of the world, with a yearly
overnight registration of 8 million.
hae, In many of the European countries
Fe r the heads of the Governments en_ dorse youth hosteling and, as in
_ Germany, require that boys and
. ee girls youth hostel as part of their
school program.

Ba Ce An International Youth Hostel

ue ‘come from the

. es to discuss youth | §

nd> mare and fears
avel fo

*| old pastures of abandoned farms,
s,| Provide excellent ski runs. All the
area is honeycombed with ancient
logging trails waiting to be marked
and mapped; and at the head of the
valleys that lie far up among the
hills are farm-homes, many available for a scheme linking them together for winter visitors.

Finally, the government of the
province might be expected to erect
one or more hostels for summer and
winter visitors in the beautiful park
in Cape Breton traversed by the
Cabot Trail.

(Editor’s note: The above article
on Youth Hostels has been summarized from two articles on the
same subject in the June issue of
“Public Affairs”, by Ian F. Mackinnon and Dorothy M. Allen, National
Secretary of the newly formed Canadian Youth Hostels Association.
The headquarters of the Association
are at 59 Victoria Street, Toronto,
Ont., and further information may
be obtained by writing Miss Allen
The trails are as yet too rough for|at that address, “Public Affairs” is
‘cycles and it is necessary to hostel! a publication of the Institute of Pubon foot or on horseback. The hos- lic Affairs of Dalhousie University.)

Returns On Your |. Q.

9 Notices of several Scholarships|must be under 25 years of age on
and Fellowships, open to students of | February 1, 1939.

Canadian Universities, have been The C. F. W. W. also offers the
placed on the bulletin board. Some Travelling Scholarships, valued at
pe of these will interest Dalhousie stu- $1250, to a Won holding a degree
ee a ik bent ailing ‘ahethow is from a Canadian University. PrefBt Pair here, and further details may. | °Te%¢* is given to those who have
iy ik »

completed one or more years of
ca. be obtained from the notices which
. have been posted. graduate work, and who have some

aS he ae definite study in view.

ae 7 The Royal Society of Canada! “qi, scholarship was awarded in
> offers 10 Fellowships in 1939, each| 1938 +) Miss Alice Lewis, M.A., a

: ve of the value of $1, wi ana a graduate of Dalhousie, who is now

_ lowships: are open to Canadans wao pursuing her studies toward a Ph.D.

Beiave done advanced work in Science ih Feudon.

‘a or Literature. The British Federation of Univer
: a Application forms may be obtain
sity Women offers a _ Residential
ed from Arthur Beauchesne, P. O.| Scholarship at Crosby Hall, valued
_ Box 114, House of Commons, Ot
at £100. This is open to women
Re ue wa.

graduates of universities all over
Whe Datadinn Federation of Uni-|the Empire.

ity Women is next year award-| Applications for these three schol4 new Junior Scholarship, of a arships should be sent to Miss
e of $700. It will be awarded | Muriel’ Roscoe, Acadia University,
wo ne graduate of a Canadian | Wolfville, the _ last one _ before
rsity, on a basis of character | January 15, 1939, and the other two
academic record. Candidates! before February 1, 1939.

ih eiAdsee.

\ Cae decides upon
ee, eas ational stamp so that
a -parents in all youth hostel
linet Machries, although they cannot read
als. she language, will recognize the
| WA. youth hostel pass.

Wi _ YOUTH HOSTELS IN CANADA

Alberta opened the first Youth
Sy v Hostel in Canada with a little summer resort in the foothills of the
| Rocky Mountains, about 30 miles
¥ e? - from Calgary. However, there was
no financial backing save the small
ter tis from limited private incomes
and the West was not hiking-minded
_ the distances are great and the
_ population small. The group  per_ sisted in their efforts and in spite of
ee ¢ much opposition and hardship were
f i, finally able to establish a chain of
‘¢ 10 hostels through the foothills and
e i into the mountains to Banff, the
-- well known Rocky Mountain resort.

cations ar

be Pe,
Boe

3
“i
:

 

 

 

uf Eee ee ny feat ct eee avi. ee
4 Wir ys Mie ig : ; + Fh ae egy
at, : rts Rs Gs Mao v} es iii ¥ Pe i. ahs j
“ aay Rae ts Fae Bik a ey ; ¥ ss ate ian ; fe,
7 iar J 3 s ‘ Seah a yi fy 1 CAG arty a: S; ri ate
aa oy ACE ie eka ‘ Ws. oa, b
" a < . i a ‘

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Australian Debaters

 

FRED THONEMANN

Their successes

The touring Australian debating
team, which will debate with Dalhousie on December 7, have suffered
but one setback on their tour across
Canada under the auspices of the
National Federation of Canadian
University Students. They have
taken part in about seventeen debates since coming to Canada, and
will debate in the Maritime Provinces before returning to their own
country. Tonight they will debate
with Mount Allison, and the topic
under discussion will be: “Resolved
that this House regrets the passing
of Victorianism.” The topic for the
debate at Dalhousie will be: “Resolved: That Nationalism is the
enemy of Civilization.”

The visitors opened their tour at
the University of British Columbia,
where they were successful in upholding the negative of the same
resolution. At the University of
Alberta, they were again successful,
this time upholding the affirmative
of the resolution: “That Man is
Master of His Fate.” Their first defeat in ten debates was suffered at
Queens, where a strong team repre
‘senting that University was success
ful in proving that the “British

Empire must not disintegrate.”

The coming debate at Dalhousie
should be keenly contested, as the
standard of debating maintained at
Dalhousie is of a very high quality,
and the visitors have already
established a high reputation during
their trip across Canada.

ET
ee
SS

 

HUGH ROBSON

Their views

“What is a co-ed?” questioned the
English voice of Hugh Robson,
Australian debater from Sydney
University, when questioned in an
interview with The Ubssey, (University of British Columbia). After
being enlightened, Hugh stated with
due deliberation that they compared
“more than favorably with our
co-eds, in fact they’re magnificent.”
“We have little trouble with our
co-eds in Sydney, they are very

 

 

pliant, in fact we call them ‘students |

of matrimony’ over there.” Both
the Australian debaters were troubled with expressions employed by
university students in this country.
“Campus”
which does not exist in an Australian student’s vocabulary. When
questioned concerning fraternities,
he stated that fraternities did not
exist in Australia, being replaced by
various. clubs and societies similar to
those under our literary and scientific grouping.

Comparatively little interest is
shown in sports “down under” .according to the two visitors. Students’ interest lie more along
intellectual and academic lines. In
a chat with The Sheaf, (University |.
of Saskatchewan) his companion,
Fred Thoneman of Melbourne University, stated that students are
provided with beer during the day
and at meals, at a “battery” which
is situated right on the campus,

(Continued on page 6)

 

A FRESHETTE SPEAKS

Why do so many cruel, heartless
parents insist on sending their defenceless children to college? Indeed, the majority of the Freshman
net’s definition of a “spoiled brat”?
at that! _

net’s definition of a

(Remember Professor Ben“spoiled brat”
—too bad, you should have taken
English)
mentally beyond the
stage. To the majority of us class
spirit is a nonentity. To us sportsmanship is a quality which should
not be shown within the portals of
college. We do not realize that ours
is a great responsibility. The success of the class of ’42 rests upon
our shoulders and we have shown
that we are not sufficiently developed to support this responsibility.

I attended the class meeting on
November 21, and was so thoroughly disgusted that I decided it was
time someone tried to put some pep
and life into our class. We have an
excellent executive who are working hard and giving much of their
free time to make our class a success, but they receive no support
No co-operation of any kind is evident, among the majority of the
class. The only ones who are behind the executive are several committee members and a few others
whose willing hands have not as
yet been utilized by the class.

When the question of a Freshman party was first suggested we
were unanimously in favor of it and
agreed to stand behind the idea and
to see it through. But what really
happened was that the committee in
charge of the dance brought in a
dandy suggestion which would have
been fun for everyone if we, as a
class, had not fallen down on our

We have not developed
kindergarten

| *42.

job and left them holding the bag.

We do not mean that the “Freshman Frolic” was a fizzle; it was a
real success, but this was not a result of the support of the class of

hundred and fifty at the banquet,
there were about sixty present. his
action is typical of our class spirit
Shown throughout the term.

When the president asked for
volunteers to decorate the lower
gym for the banquet the usual lack
of support was evident. Of course,

| there were a few present who had

legitimate excuses. Some had labs,
(perhaps you have experienced one
of those delightful periods from 2.30
to 5.380 some afternoon, and you can
sympathize), and the (dear ? ? 2)
kngineers had their draughting that
afternoon; but there were many
whose only excuse was a_ severe
case of chronic laziness.

Never before has there been a
class that has had so little pep and
life as has the class of ’42, Never
before have there been so many

poor sports in one class as there are |

in ours this year.

When our class was to meet at
the Arts building and parade on the
field before Dal’s last big game with
Wanderers a few “old faithful”
came, expecting to have a grand
time and found that there were
about thirty good sports in the
whole class.

Unless we have co-operation we
can not hope to make our class a
success. Unless we have sportsmanship and a _ willingness to work
among our members we can not expect to achieve anything. So, come
on, class, and let’s show them that
we can become the best class on the
campus.

 

the done thing.
for example, is a term |

Instead of having about one |

 

 

On Organizations

 

I often think Bacon missed out
one good subject when he wrote
those ducky little essays of his. It’s
just possible that in his day he
didn’t have a network of societies
surrounding him but somehow I
doubt it.

Just for curiosity’s sake I’d like
to find out how many societies and
organizations there are, around this
There’s a list in the back
of our Students’ Directory, I know,

campus.

but surely you don’t think that

covers them sufficiently? For in
stance, what does the average

 

Page Five

Letter

Editor Dalhousie Gazette:

Dear Sir,— On glancing through
the Gazette my eye was caught by
the article written on Sadie Hawkins’ Week which was held at McGill University. On looking into the
subject I found that they hold Sadie
Hawkins’ Weeks at the following
universities: McGill, Queen’s, Toronto, and Mount Allison. Why do we
not have a Sadie Hawkins’ Week at
Dalhousie? Before writing the letter I made several enquiries and
everyone to whom I spoke was enthusiastic about the idea, especially
the boys.

Obviously the best time to hold

 

student (remember I said average!) | the worthy event would be immedi
do when he goes to college in the

morning? He either goes to the
Library or to class. If he goes to
the Library he reads books that
have been so well organized that he
can get a Librarian to find them
without much trouble. If he goes to
class, he is sure of hearing the right
professor and the right subject because some bloke with an eye to
detail has arranged it and organized
the professors so well that all he has
to do is go to the right room.

I won’t bore you with any more
details about college—how about our
everyday life? Well, almost everybody gets up in the morning. Then
they clean their teeth, wash their
face,and brush their hair. Why?
Oh because some clean-minded Bertie a long time ago thought it would
be a good idea. His propaganda
caught on so well, that now it’s
In other words he
was the inspiration for our unofficial organization for cleanliness.

And do you think that your
toothbrush drops down from heaven
to recede in its holder? Oh dear
no. It’s there because some Dr.
West orangized a company to produce bigger and better toothbrushes.
Not only is there a company making
them, but I wouldn’t be at all surprized that if one inquired closely
enough one would find some Toothbrush Makers’ Union going strong.

You can take it from here yourself, there’s no use me mentioning
Y.M.C.A., and all those other attractive four Jetbered jobs. Then there’s
such cast-iron examples as S.P.C.A.,
the government—a thesis could be
written on that.

The most amusing part of the
whole situation to me is, that if we
ever wanted to get rid of all these
organizations and return to medieval
simplicity—do you know what we’d
be forced to do? Organize a society
for the prevention of organizations.

5608 SeACieak

tat eS
STREET

ately after the Christmas Holidays
when the girls return to the Uni
‘versity with their purses replen
 

ished. I would suggest that you ask
for a general opinion on this subject.

I remain,
G. B...Fi"42

New Activities
For Hawaii Students

 

Honolulu, T. H.—Social dancing,
archery, and speedball are among
the new activities included in the
men’s physical education program of
the University of Hawaii.

Women are required to have at
least one semester of team sports,
one semester of dancing, and two of
indiyidual or dual sports. Men are
required to have one semester of
team sports, and three semesters of
any of the six elective activities:
swimming, life saving, tumbling and
stunts, handball, volleyball, tennis,
wrestling, social dancing, and archery.

The new sports are life saving,
touch football, speedball, tumbling
and stunts, social dancing, and
archery. The last two are co-educational as both girls and boys are to
be in the same class. All the old
activities are retained.

 

First: “My husband travels so
much that when he comes home he
seems like a stranger.”

Second: “How thrilling.”

—The Sheaf.

 

 

 

Merry Christmas!

Amid the bustle of the
holiday season may we
pause and extend to you
our best wishes for a
Merry Christmas and a

brighter New Year.

HENRY BIRKS AND
SONS LIMITED

Diamond Merchants
Halifax, N. S.

 

| MACLEOD, BALCOM, LIMITED

DRUGGGISTS

Halifax, Sheet Harbour and Kentville, N. S.

 

 

 

 

Students’

Christmas and New Year’s Fares
TO

BOSTON, MASS.

From HALIFAX — $19.40

Friday, December 2 to Friday, December 30.

GOING:

Standard Coach

$18.15

RETURN: On any sailing from Boston up to and including

January 30, 1939.

Full Particulars—City Ticket Office, 413 Barrington Street.

DOMINION ATLANTIC RAILWAY

 

ements is i

 

     
  
  
 
   
 
   
   
  
  
 
 

 
  
 

; of the Dominion, due to the

Tex ee catcesicn in the United aes

 

  

  

gf
a

  
  
  
 

oer *

aes |,

‘i

|

   
  

Be

ep
wa se
ra .

r é

aoe

ose

gar

em : Ms,
See.

.
a

rc
. p ‘

Pid.

i A

iret

‘i os
Lie

country home,

‘Cattle raisers and dairy produces

in many parts of Canada will find

easier access to United States buyers
but the vital question to western
‘Canada is the loss of the six-cent
nah _a-bushel wheat preference in the
United Kingdom. National Revenue

_ officials appear a little puzzled as to
just what their losses will be too,
in connection with the abolition of
_ the three cent excise tax on imports
‘from the United States listed in the
agreement.
Opposition Forces Aroused

On these questions the government
will have to endure considerable
criticism. Sectionalism will flare
more blatantly than ever in the

commons as the members from the

various economic areas strive to
make their point. The whole issue
of Empire preference has been put in
some jeopardy by the concessions
made to reach a satisfactory conclusion in the Anglo-American pact
and some staunch Imperialists in

the house should make a strong case

out of this.

Conservative leader Manton has
refrained from commenting on details of the treaty but after lengthy
study he will oppose aspects of the
pact in the treaty debate, probably
on the general principle of the Conservative party that lowering tariff
barriers endangers home industry.

The commons will miss the spectacle—and stirring drama it would
be—of seeing Rt. Hon. R. B. Bennett
defend the Empire agreements which
he made in 1932. Mr. Bennett has
indicated he will retire to a Surrey
remote from the
wrangle of Canada’s domestic political scene.

Rowell Commission

The Rowell commission on dominion-provincial relations is expected to wind up its business within a

3 few months and the report will be

     
   
 
 
  

i tabled in the commons about the
Mh 4 a
eis sen paade: of the session. Many observ
Beaks. here believe its value will be
Pee because of the illness which
Me pac itated the’ chairman,

(ax 3

‘ on ‘lier’ i eiereks eaiet the

- report will reveal one of the most
constructive royal commissions in
3 quiries in the Dominion’s history.

There are indications that the
underlying current of the report will
advocate increasing the power of the
federal state as against the provinces with complete jurisdiction over
relief, unemployment, and labor
problems. Some rumors carry an
intimation that union of the three
prairie provinces might be recommended as well as some form of
governmental co-operation between
the three maritime provinces.

 

Pan American Union

Ottawa, Nov. 28—Canada’s policy
regarding the Pan-American union
is becoming an issue in this capital.
While the Dominion will not send a
delegate to the union’s conference in
Lima, Peru, beginning December 8,
the whole question of this country’s
possible position in the Pan-American setup is understood to have
been under review by external affairs experts for some time.

Canada is not a member of the
union, membership being restricted
to republics in the Americas. However, the union’s constitution could
easily be amended to include the
Dominion, should the government
here show a definite inclination to
participate in western hemisphere
politics.

The general belief is that there
will be no commitments made with

Latin-American countries and that

Canada will continue to tend towards London its direction of foreign policy with some understanding with Washington. From an economic viewpoint there is not much

immediate gain from association
with the union, for South American
countries are not very good trading

customers of Canada.

Defence is Major Item
The defence issue appears to be
_ the major question. With this counahi outside the pale of the proposed
ee ee defensive structs

d to rey ra thst any other | |

. eo ce Newton Rowell of |
io. “Howeres, the oe mem- |

 
 
 
    
  
 
   

VIEWS—

(Continued from page 5)
where students are free to indulge at
any time.

According to the visitors, Canadian university life does not differ
greatly from that in Australia.
The Australian student has much the
same extra-curricular activities and
social functions. The greatest ee
ference was found, they stated, i
the fact that the system of ae
tion prevalent in Australia was
identical with that in vogue at
Oxford, where a few students gather together with an instructor in
an informal discussion of the subject
they are studying. Lectures can be
taken at the university but are not
compulsory.

In the Manitoban, under a fourcolumn heading, entitled ‘““True Confessions”, Thoneman and Robson
compare the Canadian girls with
those of Australia. This is their
opinion: “Canadian co-eds are slightly coy, gigglish, and rather more
naive in their outlook than the
Australian girl students.” As for
the girl’s styles here, they were none
too complimentary. Said they:

“Girls on the campus form a veritable fashion parade and are dressed
as debutantes rather than as students.” They also vehemently
stated that they did not intend to
visit the Dionne quintuplets because
they are “tired of having the ‘brats’
jammed down their throats both here
and in Australia.”

We have heard that customs gov- |
erning the removal of hats vary. It

would seem that down the South

Shore one wears his hat indoors, if

we may judge from the actions of a
certain freshman in the Library.

 

the ‘whole project would be jeopar
dized. Therefore there are some in
dications that pressure might be
brought to bear, particularly from
Washington, to urge Prime Minister
Mackenzie King to adopt some cooperative policy with the Union regarding the defence of the western
hemisphere and formation of a
strong democratic bloc of nations
speaking with a united voice.

Public men are thus divided between complete allegiance and cooperation with the British Empire
or adding another plank in the security platform by reaching an understanding with the Pan-American
countries. An agreement on matters
of defence might be reached between Canada and the United States,
but it is hardly conceivable, in the
light of information available here,
that the present government will go
any further and the Pan-American
dream of unity might be pretty
much a mirage if Canada does not
participate.

Herridge to Seek Leadership?

Talk of the formation of any new
political party generally has many
rather fantastic aspects to it, but
there are rumors going around Parliament Hill these days that top
them all. They concern Hon. W. D.
Herridge, Canada’s former Minister
to Washington, who many believe is
going to lead a monetary reform
party at the next election. The
latest batch of speculation indicates
that he has successfully made overtures to both the Co-operative Commonwealth Federation and the Social
Crediters and has. forged an alliance. Mr. Herridge eludes newspapermen and continues to make mysterious trips around the country and
to New York.

Rt. Hon. R. B. Bennett is leaving
to live in England, but one source
contends that the former Conservative Prime Minister’s famous radio
speeches in which he preached reform might form the basis of the
new party’s platform. It is commonly believed Mr. Herridge assisted his brother-in-law in writing the
speeches.

j

zl

CUE EE ee One ee ee ee ee. nee a ne ea
*

   

  

COLONY BOYS WIN

By defeating Pine Hill by the
score 5-1 Saturday afternoon the
Newfoundland Club was crowned
Intercollegiate Soccer Champions

and winners of the Wilson Cup.
Despite the frozen, slippery fields,

both teams showed good brand of |

soccer. In the early minutes of the |
game the Newfoundland Club took |
the lead when Higgins scored in a
pass from Proudfoot. A little later |
Higgins was responsible for two,
more goals, one of them a penalty
kick.. Just before half time Crowe
broke through to score the fourth |
goal.

During this period Pine Hill play-|
ed a defensive game and but for the
brilliant play of their goalie Archie
King, the score would have been|
higher. In the second period they

 

score but Cheesman and Squire
smashed their co-ordination and
‘team play. Just before the final
whistle Cummings raced up the wing
with the ball and made a brilliant
pass to Bradbury who scored the
‘final goal.

Fraser, MacHattie and Lauder for
Pine Hill; Higgins, Crow and Cummings starred for the Newfoundland
Club. Sven Korning refereed.

Pine Hill Line-up:

Goal: Kings; Fullback: Osborne,
Ballem; halves: D. Robb, L. MacHat| tie, H. MacHattie; forwards: Firth,
Lauder, Fraser, I. Robb, MacQueen.
Newfoundland Club Line-up:

Goal: Legge; Fullback: Ball, Garland; halves: Squire, Cheesman,
Bradbury; forwards:
Morgan, Higgins, Proudfoot, Crow.

Mr. Korning refereed all

Cummings, H. |

the |

    

REFUGEES—

(Continued from page 1)
student body where it was heartily
accepted.

The resolution was sent to H. R.
Emmerson, M.P., for Westmoreland |
County, N. B., with the earnest request that it be forwarded to the

| Ottawa. The resolution,
signed by William Cumming, president of the Student Union; Miss |
MacFarlane, vice-president; Edgar |
Tweedie, secretary; and William
Sawdon, secretary-treasurer of the
Student Finance Committee, read as |
follows:

 

| Union of Mount Allison university,
believe to be absolutely without jus
forced their way into the Newfound-| games and the teams wish to thank | tification the action of any govern
land Club’s territory and kept their
goalie busy. Lauder scored el
first goal on a pass from Fraser.
Time and again they threatened to |

him for the interest he has shown |

in making the league a success; also
Major Logan, for coming to watch
the games.

 

Girls’ Sports

GROUND HOCKEY

The ground hockey season is over
for another year, and on the whole
much greater interest has been
shown in the game than in former
years. Four outside matches were
held — two with Edgehill and two
with H.L.C. Although Dal won none
of these games they were lots of fun
and helped the team to realize its
weak points. The main weakness is
lack of team work due to the fact
that the girls have little chance of
playing together. Perhaps an effort
can be made to remedy this next
year. The girls also played three
other Matches, one against the
King’s boys and two against the Dal
boys. These were not quite so instructive, being more stick fights
than scientific games, but they were
just as enjoyable. Barbara Schwartz
managed the team very capably this
year and Phyllis Hendry was a most
competent captain.

neste

 

BASKETBALL

Basketball got off to a good start
this year under the expert coaching
of Phil Wray and the management
of Florence Armstrong, assisted by
Marjorie MacIntosh. After Chrismas the interclass league will be
started and the freshettes who have

have a chance to turn their attention
to basketball. Then, also, the team
will be practising hard for the intercollegiate games.

 

SWIMMING

Arrangements for the Ladies’
Swimming Meet of this city have
been made for Dec. 3. This date is
not convenient for Dal girls, because
of its nearness to exams, and Miss
Wray is trying to make arrangements so that the meet may be held
after Christmas. If it is postponed
Dal certainly should make a real
effort to put out a good team.

 

BADMINTON

The girls played the alumnae at
badminton last Saturday night. The
practice was held in preparation for
the McCurdy Cup matches. The
alumnae finally won, but at one time
the score was 12-12 and Mr. Mercer
was heard to say that it was getting
so exciting that he didn’t think he
could watch any more

 

She laughed when I sat down at
the piano; but when I came over to
the divan, she got scared.”

—The Manitoban.

 

    
   

Insist on Getting

Donovan’s Beverages
15 - Different Flavors - 15

W. H. DONOVAN
45 GRANVILLE ST. _—B-6821

  

 

been playing outdoor sports will! %

nn... SS SSS
nh p a
- ms me ;

 

Basketball

Coach Charlie Steers of the
basketball team announces that the
senior and intermediate squads will
be made up of the following men:

Senior: Martin, MacKimmie, Smith,
Ideson, Storey, VanHorn, Anderson,
Hart, MacKenzie, Shainhouse.

Intermediate: Lyall, Stewart, Hutton, Charman, Cameron, Hatfield,
Fraser, Vail, James, Hutchins.

These men will practice in the
gym at one o’clock on Saturday for
the last time before Christmas. Immediately after this practice the
captains of the two teams will be
elected for the year.On the shoulders
of these captains will rest a great
part of the responsibility of the
team once it is on the floor. Coach
Steers, will do all he can to teach
the boys about the game and how to
play it, but how the team works on
the court is the responsibility of its
floor general, the captain, who in
this capacity is in a large way
answerable for the wins and losses
of the team.

 

He: “Where will you meet me tonight?”
She: “Halfway!”—The Manitoban

ment in oppressing by force a political, racial or religious minority
within that state and causing such

hardships.
of disapproval for what we consider |
'to be most unfair and unnecessary
treatment of minorities, and because |
of our sympathy for such oppressed
people, especially those of our own
age and interest namely university
students, we do ask that the government of the Dominion of Canada
give serious consideration to the
question of relaxation of the immigration laws to permit controlled
entry to Canada of such persons as
refugees from Germany. We do not
feel qualified to recommend what
general action should be taken by
the Dominion of Canada to assist
in the’ rehabilitation of refugees
from Germany, but we do petition
for such action by the government
as will permit us to carry out a
proposed plan of enabling a limited
number of carefully selected refugee students from Germany to
continue their academic studies at
Mount Allison university. Our plan,
to which the president of the university has given official approval,
provides for the raising of a sum
of money by ourselves, with such
additions from other sources as will
defray, in part at least, the expenses
of a small number of refugee students at the university.

“We do not ask further that the

 

‘Government of Canada move imme.diately to bring into force the

proper governmental department at)
which was |

“We, the members of the Students’ |

minority actual physical and mental |
Because of our feelings | ‘

December 2, 1938

Handball

During the last two weeks the
interest in handball has been almost
unbelievable. Twelve games have
been played in the league, and the
final match is scheduled for this
evening.

Eight teams have been taking part
in the league, and that means that
fifty-six different students have been
taking part. The frosh, with four
teams (five counting frosh engineers) have shown by far the
greatest interest. The other teams
represented Arts and Science, Engineers, and King’s.

Section B was won by the Engineers; in section A there is a tie,
and the winner has yet to be
| decided.

 

NOTICES

 

Class 40:

All Juniors will meet Tuesday
noon in Room 3 of the Arts Buildling to have their pictures taken for
| the Year Book.

——________.

| Correction:

Re last week’s report of the meeting of the Sophomore Class, the
'third motion granting $25.00 to the
Arts and Science was passed, and
not defeated as reported .

 

Hockey:

Practice Friday evening, 6.00 to
7.00 p.m., in the Arena, for all those
eligible to play Intercollegiate
| Hockey.
| Practice Monday evenin, 6.00 to
| 7.00 p.m., in the Arena, for all those

whose names are posted on the
| Bulletin boards.

 

measure we have suggested, provided the Government feels that such
as we have suggested will not
materially disturb the _ political,
economic and social order of our
country.

 

viata
Christmas Cards

They cost no more than
ordinary Cards

tS

T. L. Connolly

SPRING GARDEN ROAD
Opposite Tech College

 

 

 

 

 

ea a a ee

fat hast eat rat ae

XMAS CARDS

STUDENTS --Buy your Christmas Cards Now

THE MOST COMPLETE LINE OF XM.AS CARDS IN THE CITY

Bee ee

You also will want to see our beautiful assortment of NOV ELTIES, TOBACCOS,
CHRISTMAS DECORATIONS and CHRISTMAS WRAPPINGS.

a aa ea a ea ae

WE SPECIALIZE IN STATIONERY FOR THE STUDENT

GARDEN NEWS

24 SPRING GARDEN ROAD

Owned and Operated by Graduates of Dalhousie

aC aah al at haat a at at at eat oa a

(Same Block as Shane’s Men’s Wear)

PREECE EEC

 

 

  

{
|

 
