   
     

 

- electing officers for the year.

  

Acadia ©
Saturday |
at Studley

VOL. LXXI

 

=

\

lly

a

 

HALIFAX, N. S., OCTOBER 7, 1938

=<ette

Students’
Council
Dance
Dal Gym
Sat. 5 p. m.

 

No. 2

 

 

TIGERS TACKLE AXEMEN IN OPENING CONTEST

 

Australian Debaters: Faced
By Heavy Canadian Program

 

A debating team of two debaters
drawn from Sydney University, and
Melbourne University, Australia,will
tour Canada this Fall under the auspices of the National Federation of
Canadian University Students.

The debaters are H. R. W. Robson, a recent graduate in Law of
Sydney University, New South
Wales, and F. F. Thonemann, of
Melbourne University, Victoria, at
present a student at Law. Both
have been nominated by the National Union of Australian Students.

The team sailed from Sydney,
Australia, on September ist, via the
S. S. Aorangi and arrived at Van
-eouver on September 23rd. Owing

to the somewhat early arrival of
the team, the tour will not actually
get under way until Monday, Oct.
10th, when the first debate will be
held at* Vancouver.

The team will debate at Vancouver, Edmonton, Calgary, Saskatoon,
Brandon, Winnipeg, Toronto, Ottawa, Guelph, Kingston, Ste. Anne
ae Bellevue, Montreal, Lennoxville,
Frede icton, Chatham, Sackville,
Halifax, and Wolfville, concluding

  

their final debate on Wednesday,
December 7th. It is expected that

they will return to Australia via
the United States.

 

B. A. Aspirant at
The Registrar’s

Gee, Sally, what are you going to
take? . . D’y know anything about
Music 1? What’s it like? You say
you can get a first without knowing anything? Well, I’ll take that!!!
Yes, and Fine Arts, too.
friend—who hasn’t a brain in her
head — got through it last year.

 

WHAT??? It isn’t being given?
Whatever will I do !!!!—Give me
the calendar, quick . . . What’s left

anyway ... Let’s see... Psych III
—that’s child psychology. Sounds
simple, don’t you think ?—All about
telling what you did and why when
you were young, I suppose .. . O,
look, Sally—There’s that boy that
got all the firsts and everything.
You’d never know he was smart to
look at him.—Glad I’m not extra
bright. Of course I used to lead my
class back home. By the way, did
you see about the Freshie-Soph
Dance 7?—At the Gym of all places
and informal!!! .. . Well, this isn’t
getting me registered, and anyway
that busy-body of a stenographer is
giving me owly looks. She should
look owly! Aren’t I paying my own

(Continued on page 4)

Post-Graduate Society

 

Last Tuesday noon, the PostGraduate Society had a meeting in
the Gymnasium, following the President’s address, for the purpose of
The
following were elected:

President: Guy Renner

Sect’y.-Treas.: Lloyd Elliott

Alfred Linkletter and Walter
Murphy were selected as candidates
in the election next week, to the
Students’ Council.

My girl |

|

    

Voices Greeting

 

PRESIDENT STANLEY
who welcomed the Freshman Class

in the Gymnasium on Tuesday
morning. His review of the recent
European crisis was received with
great interest by the new students.

 

The Long Trail

 

Many paths lead towards an edueation at Dalhousie, but how varied
the paths of students are! A unique
one indeed is that of John Windbank
who motorcycled 4000 miles from
Mission, B.C., to attend the college
by the sea.

John was a member of the boys’
parliament for a number of years,
| where his ambition to study political
science only increased.
problem was to earn enough money
to attend a university. He accomplished that, by working in a chemical plant at Rosland for three years,
where he studied at the same time,
writing off his first year subjects intermittantly. With the fall of 1938
in the offing John decided to buy a
motorcycle and start out on his long
and bumpy journey towards Halifax.
Travelling an average of forty miles
an hour he covered the distance in
ten days, arriving in town full of
enthusiasm to begin his studies.

John plays soccer, skis and enjoys
dramatics and choral work. These
educational desires, ought to make
abilities, along with making his long
journey worth while. We certainly
wish him every success and only
hope his motorcycle stands up under
the strain.

Students’ Directory

 

If you have moved since the first
of the term, and you want to hare
your correct address and telephone
number appear in the Students’
D'rectory, you must notify the University Office, before October 15th
of any change you may have made.
This is important.

 

’}ing from front stage

 

Players Guild to
Act For Freshmen

Our first visit was to the dressing
room of Miss Gene Morrison, where
we were greeted with screams of
Savage joy. Miss Morrison graciously enough explained her rather
vociferous welcome, so totally unexpected by us. “You see,” she said,
“how it is? All my life it is like
this. Whenever I do something
great, real, creative, I feel my soul
torn with pain of expression. I can
no longer be me (or I). I must be
the part I portray, even to the extent of suffering the pangs of unreality.” And we could see that
what Miss Morrison said was true.
The tragedy of her part on stage
has given her eyes new depth of
feeling, charged her whole inner
existence with electric vibrance. In
fact , Miss Morrison is a changed
woman. “Although my part in the
play of Friday night is one unequalled for its difficulty”, she concluded,
“T shall endeavour to win through
for Dalhousie, for the Freshmen,
and for my Art.”

George Murphy was equally gracious in his reception of us.

 

 

Glee Club Budget
Will Be Reduced

This year, siiisuph there is a
larger enrolment than before, the
Council plans to cut budgets in every
possible way. (This, of course, does
not include football). Among those
being cut is the Glee Club Budget.
On the good authority of various
Council members we have been told
that $524 will be our allowance. One
argument against more is the
quality of last year’s shows. Admittedly, many of them were inferior
but the Munro Day Show was a return to better days. This was due
to a re-incarnation of the old spirit
in the executive. The poor ones were
due not only to a certain lack of cooperation and initiative among the
members of the executive but also to
the lack of finances and the restrictions laid on their rehearsals. This
year, however, the executive is united and strong in mutual ideas and
ability; the stage is more easily
available and all is rinning smoothly. Only finances remain to be
settled.

According to the Constitution we

 

“How | are expected to produce six shows a

glad I am that you have come,” he} year, one of which must be put on
said, with a charming smile.

—_——$——— -.

 

“Now| by the Freshman.

This is usually

 

TENTATIVE TIGER TEAM

FULLBACK
Kent Irwin (Capt), or Haynes.

THREE-QUARTERS
Ross; Feindel; Hutchins, or Haynes; Laidlaw.

HALVES
Feindel, or Kent Irwin; Eaton; Veinot.

FORWARDS
Ideson; Storey; Kerr; Phillips; Smith;
Mitchell, or Murray; MacKimmie, or Davis.

 

 

‘it will ssible
es oat | it will be possible for me to tell you

the story of my life. I feel that an

actor and his Art cannot be under- |
stood unless their whole background |
The problem of their |

is understood.
youth, for instance. First of all, I
think I should tell you about Mary.”
We hastened to interrupt Mr. Murphy at this point, by suggesting
that he tell us about his part in tonight’s show. “It is not easy for a
layman to appreciate the technical
prerequisites essential to a complete
interpretation of my part,” he answered. “For one thing, I am to be
the complete criminal. I think I
should be completely unable to portray this role, were it not for my
experience with Mary. Mary, if you
rememher—’ Unwilling to hear
things that might better be left unsaid, we hastened on to our next
question, which was what Mr. Murphy considered to be the one thing
most essential to the success of any
production. “I have already said,”
he said. “A realization of the difficulty involved in the portrayal of
one’s part. My role, for instance, I
know to be one unequalled for its
difficulty. It was Mary who first
taught me the importance of such a
realization. Mary, you know, was
—” Fortunately a hysterical screaminterrupted
the impending disclosures, which
might easily have proved to be far
quote embarassing to your corres
The regular by-election will be | pondent than to Mr. Murphy himself.

held this Tuesday in the Gymnasium
for the purpose of electing the postgraduate representative to the Stu,dent’s Council. All post-graduates
are requested to vote.

We hastened front stage to be
greeted by the emotionally ravaged
but still lovely face of Miss Freda
Cahan. “I can’t go on with it, I

(Continued on Page 2)

 

the second show, the first one being
an introduction for the Frosh to the
Glee Club. This year the first show
has received more attention than
ever before. Every care has been
taken to make it the finest first show
the Club has ever produced.

To give you an idea of the cost
of a show of quality it may be interesting to know that this one will
cost $125. including the orchestra
for the dance afterwards. This was
the total even though the strictest
economy was used. Many may
think this is too much, but it is iz,possible to produce a good show for
less. The only possible cut is the
orchestra.
to the students. If they do not want
dances after the shows we can save
a large sum. But if they do want
the dances we must have the money.
An amplification system for records
has been suggested. Unfortunately
these systems do not sound well in
the Gym. Many students seem to
find a dance a bright spot in the entertainment. The question is entirely their concern. Let them make
their decision soon.

The rest of the shows for the year
fill out a varied and interesting programme. This is an attempt to
please different tastes of every student. The second show promises to
be outstanding. The Freshmen are
interested not only in acting but also
in backstage work,choral society and
music. Moreover there is enough

talent in all these fields to make |

even a cynic surprised. A musical
show by them would be a hit.

Among the other shows will be
(Continued on Page 38)

This last question is up|

Title Drive

 

   

Passing Mourned

 

President — Emeritus A. Stanley
MacKenzie. Next week’s Gazette
will be a memorial issue to the great
educator who led this University for
so many years.

 

C. U. Press Notices

Increased Registration
Antigonish (CUP) — St. Francis
Xavier University report the largest
enrollment in the history of the
| University. This year, there are 333
| students at the university.

 

DR. A. S. MACKENZIE
Dalhousie mourns the loss of

 

Pass System Instituted

| Saskatoon, Sask, (CUP) — The
‘system of pass cards that was
adopted by the Students’ Representative Council of the University of
Saskatchewan, after a plebscite held
last spring, will be put into operation this fall. The pass card will be
| combined with the student identification card in booklet form. A ticket
| will be torn off the blooklet and used
'for admission to each function.

 

Information Bureau
Monreal, Que. (CUP) — McGill
| University has this year instituted a

Freshman Information Bureau,
which will work in conjunction with
the Reception Committee. The
| Bureau should enable new students
to pick out those societies in which
he is most interested, by explaining
| to them the functions of all the various societies on the campus.
Bureau will further help Freshmen
by providing them with a schedule
o fthe first meetings of the organizations, and by running a column
which will publicize their meetings,
and give their time, place and date.

|

’

 

 

 

WE WONDER—

One thousand Dalhousie students
would like to know: If Sven A.
Korning is Associate Professor of
Physical
Professor ?

is

Education, who

 

 

The Gazette, on behalf of
the student body, extends its
deepest sympathy to Laura |
Zwicker on her recent bereavement.

 

 

 

Student Se oart Urged For

of Dal Ruggers

 

| Saturday at Studley Dalhousie
| will renew her rivalry with Acadia
|in the opening game of the Football
League. The first game between the
second teams of the two universities
will begin at two o’clock and the
senior teams will play after them
at 3.30. The coaching staff has been
increased by the addition of Carl
Stoddard and Pooh DeWolfe, who
both played for Dalhousie. They
will be hard drivers in practice and
will assist Professor Fletcher and
Dr. Noble with the coaching. Their
first act was a jaunt through the
Park last Sunday morning.

This year’s team appears stronger
than last year’s and will emphasize
speed. The strength of the Acadia
team is unknown. We will venture
to predict a victory in the senior
game.

They will be out there fighting but
the scrappy spirit that has carried
the Fighting Tigers to many championships will not be enough to
enable them to rise to former
heights in this year’s campaign. A
full turn-out of the student body
and their enthusiastic backing will
supply the necessary drive. The fact
that they are potential champs
alone cannot pull a victory out of
the fire but with all Dalhousians
cheering them on there is little
doubt but that they will come
through with a win.

A Tea Dance after the game will
aid in the general success, so let’s
see everybody out and make it Dalhousie’s Day.

Come and Get It!

Everyone, according to Einstein’s
law of averages, is entitled to everything that is his. And everyone
desireth that which is his, says Bunyan. The rest is simple. Add one
to five, cross-multiply by seven-ups.
There is only one possible answer.
Here it is. Everyone, because not
so long ago they paid for it, will
dance to the rythmic beat of Jimmy
Sadler’s Orchestra at the Students’
Council dance. It’s all yours, come
and get it!

This Saturday Dalhousie meets
Acadia in a pitched battle on the
football field. Princeton has

 

dances; Dal has tea dances. “They
ire an essential part of college life,”
states Vogue. Vogue is always
rig:t—on general principles. of
course. So the Student’s Council,
realizing this staggering fact, has
decided to combine the traditional
tea dance given after the game
versus Acadia with the Students’

Council dance.

There is no need to crash this
year. It’s all yours. Enter. Dance.
Eat. Opportunity knocks but once.
Do not let it slip through your fingers. Remember, everyone, large and
small, to truck on down to the gym
Saturday at five, for the Students’
Council Dance. Ail you need to get
yourself and the girl in is your
Students’ Council ticket. We'll see
you there.

NOTICE

There will be a meeting of the
Players’ Guild in the Murray Homestead on Tuesday, October 11, at
7.30 o’clock. Refreshments will be
served at 10c a head, and dues of 5c¢
will be charged. All those interested
are cordially invited to attend.

aut

»

 
    
     

oS ee ee ee

rer cate th Sapam ial Ei meptcenemnar tions énaengfnnaMibionlis

“The Oldest College Paper in America”

_ Founded 1869.

 

 

 

 

 

 

e _ Printed by McCurdy Printing Co., Ltd. , Argyle St. em
e Gree GAZETTE STAFF
r. Editor: BERNARD GRAHAM  B-5033

News Editor: WALTER MURPHY  B-5191
= Sports Editor: DOUGLAS LYALL B-2607
Business Manager: SIDNEY A. GILLIES B-5487

“Associates: Barbara Murray, Marjorie McLean, Gordon Hiseler

 

ACADEMIC FREEDOM

It is well: for us to realize how pertinent are "President
Stanley’s words of warning about the dangers to freedom in
universities in Canada. 3

There is one large university where it has — announced
that they consider it is their job “to teach the. students. what
to think, not how to think. zs

In Canada there are students at one university who feel i

_ their responsibility. to curtail the political freedom students at)
“another; while many. of the latter are opposed to freedom of
discussion on their own campus.
| _ . There is still another university of speaideratis reputation
| where one. by one those professors who are approaching: hu-manity’s tragic problems with honesty, insight, and realism.are
“being. dropped fromthe staff for’ various cooked-up reasons.
“And all this:is but oat of the chgrenee to university freedom
in. pants, ae

SS SS USS

= DR MACKENZIE

With ‘the padsing of each person who has bes a en
figure in the history of the University, the students feel that
their relation to the past has become less close. Of no one

--eould this ever be more correctly said than of Dr. A: peeey

 

 

~ Mackenzie.
The Gazette will therefore present a memorial. issue next
week. S
| - REASONING AND KNOWLEDGE — _Cit arias ee "(Contributed by a Graduate Student)

In our life. we are ‘constantly meeting with problems which
present difficulties to us. The Solving of these and the overcoming of the difficulties is what makes life interesting for us.

Tn order to obtain greater facility in ‘solving these problems
we must cultivate our reasoning abilities. Our ability to, possess or hold on to knowledge need not be very great if we can

| ‘reason clearly and: without committing fallacies. ~

Our possession of knowledge. is. of little. use to us if we
datinot reason because thus we cannot apply it. However, to
a man who has great abilities for deductive and inductive
reasoning, the possession of knowledge is of great use and
importance. By reasoning he uses the knowledge he possesses
to discover new facts which are interesting and useful to him.

Thus we realize that our reasoning abilities are more important to us than the mere possession of impractical knowledge
which we are unable to apply.

conjunction with the Football Game,
and to invite Acadia students, presen at the game, to the dance.

The Council’s handling of the
dance situation is very commendable
and faced with having the dance the
same week as the Freshie-Soph,

‘Campus Comment

(By Reardon)
‘ CCUNCIL MEETS

On Monday evening at 7.30 the
council met in the Men’s common
room in the Arts Bldg. The most
surprising fact about this meeting,
was the full attendance of the
council members. ,

The business of the evening was
mainly concerned with matters dealing with Glee Club, Students’ Counceil Dance and Year Book.

Eric Howel, property manager of
the Glee Club reported that the Glee
room had been broken into during
the summer, and that various prop
agreed not to interfere in anyway
with the success of their dance.

As one who has observed many
Council meetings in the past years,
I say that at last we seem to have
a council made up of level headed
and unselfish students. A fact that
brings credit to the Societies which
they represent.

The big question in the minds of

they, at the request of the Sophs, | her.

 

ertities had been destroyed, and that
some had been stolen. The question
then arose as to who was responsible and who was to pay the damage;
the whole affair, after some little
discussion was turned over to a
committee who are to look into the
matter.

Mr. Howell in his report stated
that, according to information given
him, the Glee Club room was used
as a home for a few aoc he ~ ere
the summer.

The writer is Psa: to ‘weecthon
the validity of this last statement.
Owing to the Dalhousie Reunion, a
few students, looking after various
function for the Alumni, used ‘the
Glee Club room for meetings. In
the above instances the students
concerned, were students intimately
connected with Glee Club. ;

The next item of Business was
that of the Students’ Council Dance.
After much discussion it was decided
to have the dance on Saturday in

a a fas « *

most of us today is concerning
Football. “Will Dalhousie Win the
City League this Year?

We, the students of Dalhousie,
have as much to do in answering
this question as have the 25 or 30
players, who each day give hours of
their valuable time to enable us to
place a strong team on the field at
the opening whistle.

The part, of those of us who are
unfortunate enough not to qualify
for team play, in this battle for
Sports Supremacy lies in our support of our teams. For the past five
or six years student support has
been badly lacking, and the Dal‘housie side of the bleachers full of
little but air.

An appeal is being made for
greater support than has ever been
witnessed at College functions. One
need only look at this year’s Freshman Class and hopes for revival
arise.

my i

— as a,

SEN IED : Pete aero
aah ave>

 

 

eS

Lease AT IOERE RLS seater

 

| great artist in the throes of creation.

has been paid.

« The Good

(Apologies to

oo HQUSIE GALETTE

Old Days »

Lewis Carrol)

   

The Hall. was still as still could be,; “The time has come,’ the Sopho
The Frats were dry as dry.

You could not see a Prof, because
No Prof was passing by.

‘the Frosh were passing

There were no seniors to defy.

The Sophomore and the Third Year
man

Were walking hand in hand (?)

ahey wept like anything to see

So many Freshmen on their land.

“If they were only cleared away,”

They said, “it WOULD be grand.”

“If Benny gave them English themes

Weekly for half a year,

Do you suppose,” the Sophomore
said,

“That he could get the campus
clear?”

“IT doubt it”, said the Third Year
man,

And shed a bitter tear.

“Oh, Freshman, come and walk with
us!”

it The Sophomore did beseech.

“A pleasant walk, a pleasant. talk,
Along the briny beach.

“We. cannot do with more than four
To give a hand to each”.

The wisest Freshman, looked at-him,
But never-a word he. said: .
The wisest. Freshman winked.his eye
And.shook his green-capped head—
Meaning to say he. did not choose
To leave, his Caesar unread.

But four young Freshmen hurried up

All eager for the treat.

Their coats were brushed, their faces
washed,

Their trousers pressed from hem to
seat.

And this was odd, because, you know,

The Frosh is never. neat,

Four other Freshmen followed them,

And yet another four; :

And thick and fast they came at last;

And more, and. more, and: more—

All rushing from. their: classroom.
_ seats,

And scrambling fee the. door.

The Sophomore.and the Third Year
man

Walked on a mile or so,

And then they rested on a ae

Conveniently low.

And all the little Freshmen stood

And waited in a row.

a? Secs ess

more said,
“To talk of many things:
Of girls—and “D’s”
shows—
Of placards—and kings—
And why you break the rules—
And what professor ’swings’”’.

“But wait a bit”, the Freshmen cried,
“Before we have our chat;

For some of us are out of breath
And most of us are fat!”

“No hurry!” said the third year man.

They thanked him much for that.

“A bucket of tar’, the Sophomore
said,

“Is what we chiefly need:

Feathers and flour besides

Are very good indeed—

Now, if you’re ready,
dear,

We ean begin the deed”:

Turning a greeny-blue,

“After such kindness, that would be

A dismal thing to do!”

“The night is fine,” the Sophomore
said,

“Do you admire the view?”

“It was so kind of you to come!
1?? ;

But you are very young!
The third year man said nothing but

tongue.
We only mean to teach you
Tars and feathers never stung”’. °

“It seems a shame,” the: Sophomore
said,

“To play them such a ‘trick.

After we’ve brought them out so far, |

And made them trot so quick!”

The Third Year man said nothing
but

“Hit them when they kick”.

i

“Tl weap for you,” the Sophomore
said:

“T deeply sympathize”’.

With sobs and tears he singled out

Those of the largest size,

Holding his pocket handkerchief

_Before his. streaming: eyes.

man,
“You’ve had a pleasant run!
Shall we be trotting home again!”
But answer came there none—

'They’d vanquished every one.

 

 

PLAYERS GUILD—

(Continued from Page 1)

ats all
I feel my part.so much |
It |
isn’t sane for me to suffer so much,

can’t, I can’t,” she shrilled.
too horrible.
more than the rest of you do.

 

merely for the sake of my Art.”

Miss Cahan’s screams died away as
she felt the eye of the Press upon
Wtih magnificent effort, she
“You

must not mind my outburst,” she

managed to control herself.

said, with a sweet, but rather sad
smile, “But it is the only way in
which I can release my pent-up
You’ve no idea how nervewrecking “A Murder Has Been Arranged” really is. And it is particularly harrowing for me, because,
you see, my part is one unequalled
for its difficulty. But now, I must
return to my torture and thank you
so for coming.” And as we left the
gymnasium, we heard behind us. the
muffled screams and groanings of a

emotion.

 

 

This Is Your Page

Poems and Short Stories, Essays, Plays, Contributions of all
sorts are solicited by the “Gazette” staff. Send all contributions to the “Gazette” office, basement of the Art’s Building.

     
   
     
     

 

Commerce Carrie says:

 

Men are like Bonds. Don’t take |

them at face value until the interest

 

 

—————————— seen erent

 

Student Christian
‘Movement Talks

 

The Student Christian
seeks to bring to the students of the
campus the realisation that they

have within themselves the possibili- | |

ties for useful, interesting, and creative lives. In doing this the Movement provides a fellowship of peo
his meaning for them
as individuals and as members of
society Also the movement provides study material for those who
may have special interests, such as
psychology and
tion the _ social
Christianity.

This year the Movement has embarked on
Two new study groups will be h-ld
on “Jesus in the Records”, a critical
study of the life of Jesus. One
group will be- conducted by Dr.
Bronson, the other by Mrs. George
Haythorne, both experienced leaders. Dr. Bronson will also conduct
a second year group, and possibly a
senior group on the _ same book.
Katherine Hockin, the local secretary, will lead a group on John MacMurray’s interesting and stimulating
book “Creative Society.”

In addition to these groups, which
cali for rather intensive study, a lecture series will be held, one lecture
each Tuesday noon. The series will
open on Tuesday, October 11th, with
Rose Terlin speaking in the Gym/nasium on “Czechoslovakia”. Other
speakers will include Gertrude Owen
of the Australian W. W. C.-A., Mrr.
Corbett of the Adult Education

about Jesus,

implications of

- (Continued on page 4)

Our adyertisers are Halifax’ best merchants—patronize them.

religion social ac-|

*,* |
an ambitious program.

—and Glee Club

Freshmen |

“But not on us”, the Freshmen cried, |

“Don’t make a noise and hold your)

“Oh Freshmen,” said the Third Year:

_And this was scarcely odd, because |

Movement | 
ple who are seeking to know more |

October 7, 1938

“I'm getting in shape for a Susie Q”
“Thanks, I'll stick to Sweet Caps.”

SWEET CAPORAL CIGARETTES

“The purest form in which tobacco can be smoked.”

 

 

 

Something New Good Food

Birks now ‘citi a | Good Service
éresting service adapt- Good Atmosphere

sable to practically any a
article’ in their stock. Dook’s Tea Room

Rings, compacts, ciga- ||

+5 Limited
-<*¥ette cases, lighters, a ||'|| CAPITOL THEATRE BLDG.
“host ‘of gifts may all |]. Confectionery

) Lunches - Tobaccos

be had with the Dalhousie erest attached.

HENRY BIRKS AND
SONS LIMITED
Diamond Merchants
Halifax, N. S.

 

CORONA
Typewriters and Accessories

B 9586

Wallie Sellars

|
a)

Jim Milner

| Sole Campus Agents
TO SUIT

 

| TERMS

 

    
 
     
 
  

  

 

~HOLLAND’S "RESTAURANT
’Phone B-9480- 565 Barrington Street
6 otto AD CHIPS

STEAKS, CHOPS, SANDWICHES, MEALS, TEA & COFFEE
Delivered Promptly to 1 a. m.

“The Only Service of its kind in Halifax” ‘PHONE B-9480

 

 

 

 

 
  

WHEN YOU NEED:

DRUGS MEDICINES PRESCRIPTIONS

OR ANY OTHER DRUG MERCHANDISE
YOU GET BETTER SERVICE AND VALUE

at
Kinley’s Drug Stores

  

         
   
   

 

 

  

 

BOUTILIER’S OYSTER
BAR

Oysters Served on the
Half-Shell or Cocktails

Open from 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. Every Day

30 BEDFORD ROW B-6351

 

 

 

 

Formal Evening Wear -
SHANE’S are following closely the trend towards tails for formal dress wear, and have
a complete range of sizes and styles priced
very reasonably.

White Waistcoats — Studs — Dress Shirts —

Key Chains and everything to complete the
ensemble.

SHANE’S MEN’S SHOP

30 SPRING GARDEN ROAD

 

Dal Students are allowed 10% Discount

 

 

 

 
 

October %, 1988

ms ase ° SEEN reer

—< 7 ~- se ee

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

age Three

 

 

ette Interviews New
Students From Afar|:

Dalhousie has welcomed into its portals this year one
student from Trinidad and two students from Korea. When
the Gazette interviewed them, each one was asked the same
question, “What is the educational system like in the place
from which you come?” but before the interviews were over,
we had strayed so far from the original question and in such
different directions, that we thought it advisable to present the

interviews separately.

The Gazette, on behalf of the student body, welcomes these new
students and wishes trem the best
of luck in their college careers.

Clarance Fraser, of Wonsan,
Korca, in answer to our question
about education, explained that the
Japancse government has some difficulty in edueat’ng all the Korean
children becaus2 many of them come
from farms and live quite a distance
from the schoo s.. In order to solve
this problem, train passes have been
given. the children, so that now they
can travel at an amazingly small
cost. This, however, did not solve the
time element. For the children have
to get up as early as four and five
o’clock in the morning in order to
get to school, and when they come
back at the end of the day there are
chores on the farm awaiting them,
to say nothing of homework.

The standard of living in very low
in Japan. This is one of the chief
reasons behind the Sino-Japanese
war. If Japan can gain territory in
China, she hopes to be able to spread
her population out, and raise the
standard of living. : |

She is well prepared for war. A
period of two years military service
is compulsory for everyone, and censorship is very heavy. Many American magazines and neéwspapers are
banned from the country. There is
a strong anti- communistie feeling,
for Japan is very much afraid of
Russia.

Even if Japan wins the _ SinoJapanese war:ske is not going to
gain very much by it. She has had
the utmost difficulty in getting her
people to settle in Manchuria. The
usual procedure so far, has been t9
move the Japanese to Korea and
send the Koreans to China. They
do not like this, as the Manchurian
climate is very’ much colder than

their own. On top of this, the stand
ard of living, owing to the war is
steadily decreasing, so Japan today
is in a rather problematical position.

Ralph Laltoo, our student from
Trinidad, knew the educational system of Trinidad very thoroughly.
He had taught in their schools for
four years. These are based upon
the British system of education and
Cambridge entrance examinations
are taken. The most interesting of
Trinidad’s col‘eges is the Imperial
College of Tropical Agriculture. It
is the only one of its kind in the
world and men come from everywhere to study. Scientific investigation and controlled experiments
are made here.

In the schools they have what they
ca.l “Cinema Week.” After a week
of instruction, children, chosen by
the teacher, are sent to see educational films. These cover a wide
variety of subjects.

Holidays, too, are spread out as
they are in England. They are
given four weeks at Christmas, two
at Easter, and four in August. As
well as these regu'ar holidays, there
are some peculiar to the island itself. For two days preceding Ash
Wednesday there is wild celebration.
The people dress in costumes and,
wearing masks, dance in the streets.
The music accompaning these dances
is of a type that could have been developed by Trinidad alone. Early in
the colonization of Trinidad negro
slaves were brought over from Africa to work on the sugar plantations. They brought with them their
own weird throbbing music. It is
this music mixed with modern tunes
that makes up the music played
there today. American Swing resembles it very closely. In fact it is
thought. that the inspiration for the
first swing music came from Trinidad.

In the heart of Trinidad lies the

Pitch Lake. In the_centre of. this.

lake the pitch is quite soft and_ can

be carted away very easily..- “Hence
their roads are made chiefly of pie viteh, ee

 —————E——_—

A i a

  
  
  
  
 

rr: ,

Discusses Czechs

A special event in the fall terms
will be the visit of Miss Rose Terlin,
who has come recently from Europe,
where she attended Assembly and
Council Sessions of the League of
Nations. She is a member of the
International Consultative Group in
Geneva,—twelv e experts who prepare memoranda for the League.
Miss Terlin will be on the Dalhousie
campus from Monday _ evening,

October 10th to Wednesday the 12th, |

and will speak in the Gym on Tuesday noon, on the subject “Crisis in
Czechoslovakia.”

Miss Terlin is a Secretary for the
World Student Christian Federation
with ‘special responsibility in the

 

field’ of économie and social problems, Previously she served for |
three years as the Public Affairs
Secretary of the student division of
the Y.W.C.A. in “the United States;
this position took her to all sections
of that country’ and to various parts
of Canada as “well.

 

ee busy program for Miss Terlin’s |
visit to Halifax has been planned by | )
the S.C.M. executive. |

Monday evening—Student meeting
—127 Coburg Road. i

Tuesday noon—Gymnasium. |

Watch the bulletin boards. for |
notices of further meetings.

It is only rarely that students
have the opportunity of meeting B hes
person of such wide experience and
that none will miss the opportunity
practical knowledge, and it is hoped
of hearing Miss Rose Terlin in one

 

or more of the groups with which |

she will meet.

GLEE CLUB—
-¢(@ontinued from Pagel)
two nights of Connolly Shield one
acters, a three-act show, and analy

the Munro Day Show.

Now with. an increase in talent
and an active executive we are faced
with a threatened cut in the budget.
This means, if we are forced to rely
only on the grant given, that we
must change our programme. — In
other words we can put on a few
good ones or six poor ones. All of
our budget does not go on the shows
as productions pure and simple but
a percentage goes for supplies and
running expenses. We need at the
very least $750 and even more,!
of the Students Council Fee. Thus
the shows would cost the student $1. |
This would amount to less than 10% |
a year or 17'%c apiece. 17%c for a|
show and dance is surely not too|
much. If the students feel that the
entertainment. provided is worth this
much the matter should be settled.
The Students Council as a representative body observing student opinion would then be only too glad to
enlarge the budget. The solution is
in each students hand. Let him say
if he wants to have 17'*c of his $10
spent on each show. Compared with
the results and satisfaction received
from football which last year he got
Surely the students got much more
$1,016.60 and hockey with $630.00.
from the Glee Club with its $650.
No other organization, given an increase in the budget, could match
the jump that the Glee Club would
make.

Every hide has a right to say
how his money will be spent. Let
each one say what he will, the
opinion of the majority will -settle
the matter. We of the Glee Club
are confident that the students wanted better plays and, we are doing the
best we possibly can. to satisfy this
desire.

 

 

Our student from Trinidad was quite
surprised to see so many dirt roads
in Halifax, but, when we informed
him that Nova Scotia had to pay two
and three million dollars a year in
order tohave her highways paved,

he understood: how fortunate Trini
ad om owas, to have a piteh Jake, ~ a

- DALHOUSIE BOOK STORE —

_ The store was started in the fall of 1930 through the efforts of Murray Rankin, Professor James MacDonald, and Mr. MacKay. Prior to its
beginning, the students had to obtain their textbooks as best they could
from the booksellers and stationers downtown. Due to the remoteness
of the two centres of activity this state of affoirs did not prove very
satisfactory.

Through the efforts of the above mentioned committee the publishers
‘were prevailed upon to extend the necessary credit terms and the store
was opened in the old Gymnasium building. After the fire which destroyed
the building in the spring of 1931, temporary quarters were set up in
the Men’s Common Room until the new Gymnasium was completed.

The store is a co-operative venture and was formed with the primary
idea of obtaining the student requirements as cheaply as possible. The
small profit made each year was added to surplus to ensure a sound
financial position and to guard against any loss which may arise. In the
past few vears the profit has been turned back to the students in the

form of grants for student services and in providing periodicals for the |
men’s common room and for the reading room in Shirreff Hall, and, be-|

ginning this vear, for the women’s: common room.

As stated befre, the primary purpose of the store is to effect as great

a saving as possible on student teaxt beeks, and it is the writer’s opinion

that this has been achieved. You will not from an analysis of the profit |
and loss statement, (copies of which will appear in early issues of the

Gazette—a copy of which appears below), that the net profit ratio is onlv
5%, which means simplv that it costs the store 95 cents for every dollar’s
worth of books sold.

 

The store also saves the students’ time since thev do not have te |

This is especially beneficial]
In

leave the campus in order to buv their books.
to freshmen students, many of whom are not familiar with the City.

recent years, an addition of two members of the Students’ Council elected |

annually has been made to the store trustees, thus providing effective |

student representation in the management of the store. The board of

 

Neilson’s

THE BEST CHOCOLATE

C.377

ADE.

 

trustees thus formed chooses the manager of the Book Store from appli- | ——- ——_— -
cations received from the student body. This vear the trustees are Murray Rankine, Prof. Maxwell, Dr. R. A. MacKay, and two to be appointed
from the Students’ Council.

TRADING AND PROFIE AND LOSS STATEMENT
Year ended April 30th, 1938

| Trading Account—New Books
| Sales

2.6/6 ©0%e, ¢-@ 2s a © 60 62 9 RD OTS © 6 0. ©. 6 6 6+ 8 8.6 6 @ 8 6 0 6'te @ 1010 0 8 Oo

$3,819.71
10.95

oe kN She > 6-e e cee eo eee © ms 6.6.6 6 be be be Oe 8

 

Profit and. Loss Statement
Cost of aa

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

$3,808.76 |

 

 

Shaves - Hair Cuts - Shines
“Goed Service”

Insist on Getting |
Donovan’s' Beveragcs
15 - Different Flavors - 15

A. FUBLICOVER
LORD NELSON HOTEL
BARBER SHOP

W. H. DONOVAN
B-6821

45 GRANVILLE ST.

 

 

: Stock on hand,-April' 80th, 19387........ $ 515.32
HRUSGRASER a ailiss al cee s x Mea ene 3,174.69
Freight and. 6xpréssageé §: 0. isc... 2.06. 89.15
SMI OER areca Ne las ve kes oa HD Gove ke oe 34.19 $8,813.35
Deduct: Stock on hand, April 30th, 1938...... 524.77 3,288.58 |
Canes: Profit—New Books...:............:. fiend doa ots $ 520.18
Trading Account—Second Hand Books
PRG apa ele cev clever aiae GAIN GAs Bld mies Cv hae din evo eee ag $244.45 °
Rp oe ORME Ng lye ita hts at ale. te bcs see oo Seu odt 8.25 $241.20
MOEA a ele PA Sate re Wie Siw eee ate eet aioe a Un ee sew Loon 216.99
Gross Profit—Second Hand Books......... BE oR ste cede $ 24.21
Net Trading Profit—New Books. .<..:.....:s+. $520.18
Net Trading Profit—Second Hand Books. wails, « 24.21 $544.39
PURER UCPORE OOTI SS or es Oe Lats ants atiraites winded 28.38 $572.77
Deduct: Expenses
SAUTE cao SPAN PON aaa T DRG G Lh Lh eto Gie Tileaii  SeOO: 00
Stationery, Printing ANG POStARe. bc. d adic b onde os 36.00
Telephones and telegrams. . 5. .5..%...66 f bs end o's dca) 24.14
eM OTS ance gs Wee atica Ae SE eles ue Wiki acy ward or 19.50
Piterest and bank charges. 0... ds. ce ace e c aes 1.32
EMO SEOMMAR EET AF ag era ra te hah ke tuo ise are ete aN 08, 10.00
PUMPER le te So cyte ce dd ocho kis cle'ey ile Meee 4.00
Depreciation: Inventory .........6...00 6600. $26.18
PPUROIMOUY) OF oc 5 ais Cele aides 6 eos 21.41 47.59
Amortization of Bond Premium................... 5.63 354.18 |
DE pe Do ae Bahan el olla 8 a a ge le i $218 59
Assets
Current Assets:
See ONE -REERENEN detent hs ah eee oreo ec cca acd $, 55.18
—In Bank—Current Account ........ 475.68
—In Bank—Savings Account......... 179.15 $709.96
DUOC OM DATS Gis oc oss oo o6 be cvbevn cess. $524.77
Less: Provision for Depreciation...... 52.48 472.29 $1,182. 25 |
Investments:
$500.00 City of Halifax 544%, 1952, at cost, less
BETOPEISATION TO/GAUR 34. fos «icc cde CS bcd no os $578 . 74
PLCOTUOC “SNGOPERE pe ake eee d's dc che ccd 6 ic oes creas 9.17 587.91
Fixed Assets:
Furnishings and equipment ............66..00000. $214.19
Less: Provision for Depreciation.................. 48.74 165.36 |
$1,935.52 |
Liabilities
Sundry ACCOUNEEEPEVEDIG ori grtck ca osc Powe no ee ee $ 86.90)
SUN IU ECOUNG Mert An) oii se hee Cates foo iyo hie cen melee 1,848.62 | ¥|
$1,9355.52 |
: 1934-35 % 1935-36 % 1936-37. % 1937-38 %
Sales $4,080.19 100 4,077.77. 100 3,986.67 100 4,049.96 100
Cost of Sales 3,521.85 86.2 3,483.95 85.4 3,378.03 84.7 - 3,505.57 56.6
Gross Profit 558.34 13.8 593.82 14.6 608.64. 15.3 544.30 13.4 |
Expenses 267.03 . 6.5 352.70 . 8.7 285.54. 7.2 825.80 8. |
Net Profit $ 291.381 . 73 $ 241.12°° 5.9 $°328:10 8.1 $ 218.59 5.4

SSO ee ee —
Our advertisers are Halifax’ best merchants—patronize them.

 

 

 

 

 

 

Paulette Licnited”

Featuring | Fy
LADIES’ SPORTSWEAR

¥

Welcome Students

Hl iF you have a
|

i HIRST

for a hot or cold drink
and a tasty “snack”
then it’s’...

Fader’s
SNACK BAR

for you.

23 COBURG ROAD

’
eee entnnenepecee: |
;

For their Showing of

—

NEW SPORTS DRESSES

SWEATERS and SKIRTS

 

 

FOR

IDENT?
BETTER CLEANING |S!

Have YOU tried the
SUITS oy
special Students LaunCOATS | a
HATS dry Service offered by
the Halifax Steam LaunGLOVES ts
dry? It’s really “Tops”.
Special Rates to Students The very finest, com
Our BETTER method assures
BETTER results.

PHONE L-2323

Couvins

LIMITE®S

pletely finished laundering at a price that will
save you real money.

 

TELEPHONE L-2309

HALic AX
STEAM LAUNDRY

 

 

   

 

MASTER CLEANERS“AND. DYERS

 

 

 

 

 

Your Future Is

IMPORTANT

There is room in the insurance profession for intelligent, well-educated men, to sell “Security” to
Canadians for their families and themselves. If
considering such humanitarian work as a career
you would do well to choose The Mutual Life of
Canada.

Our nearest Branch Manager or the Head Office
will be glad to give you particulars regarding the

Company, its history and policies.
Waterloo, Ont.

Home Office
Insurance in Force Over $540,000,000

  

UA AL
Established 1869

 

 
   

    
  
  
   

 

~ Dalhousie

vs.

i Acadia

Saturday

‘Senior
and
Intermediate

 

 

College Tennis Champions
Start Defense of Title

 

A notable addition to Dalhousie’s
athletic facilities are the two new
tennis courts down by Shirreff Hall.
The courts are of asphalt, so they
require no attention and can be
played on as soon as the rain dries
off them. The Dalhousie tennis
team competes in the Intercollegiate
League with Acadia and Mount Allison. An intercollegiate ruling restricts the players to undergraduates, so that no one who has received a degree from any university
or college is eligible to play.

Trials for the team are now bene
held under Professor Mercer.

practice match was held at the
-Waegwoltic Club last Monday and
‘another will be held at the same

place Friday afternoon.

Dalhousie, though tied once, has)

never been beaten at tennis in intercollegiate competition. One year
the team included three of the first |
ten ranking men players in the’
Province—Don Bauld, Don Saunderson and Mit Musgrave, and a rank- |
ing woman player, Miss Isabel |
Fraser. This year, however, fear of |
such competition need not deter any |
undergraduate who wants to play’
from trying out for the team.

Open House at Hall

 

“Open House”, which was such a
popular innovation at Shirreff Hall
last year, will be continued this year
it was decided at a meeting of Delta

Gamma Thursday. This form of en
tertainment, which is scheduled for
every Saturday night, gives any
Dalhousian the opportunity of dropping into Shirreff Hall for dancing,
bridge or what have you. The social
committee of Delta Gamma _ will
make arrangement s for monthly
“special Open Nights” when refreshments and music will augment the
programme,

The meeting, called by President,
Zilpha Linkletter, was for the purpose of electing a secretary-treasurer to succeed Helen Connor, who
has not returned to Dalhousie. Joan
Blackwood was elected to the office
which makes her ‘automatically
President of Delta Gama in 1939-40.

8. C. M. TALKS—

(Continued from page 2)

Movement, and Mr. Miller of the
Jerusalem Y. M. C. A. Additional
speakers will be announced soon.
Regular weekly discussion meetings
will be held each Thursday evening,
the first taking the form of a freshman reception in St. Andrew’s Hall
on the 13th. Meetings will also be
held with visitors to the campus so
that students may come to know
them.
_ The S. C. M. exacts no membership fee. It asks your loyalty and
co-operation and your devotion to
the God that you may be able to discover by your work with it. It challenges the student who says he has
time for nothing but studies with:
“You are in college once in your life,
and if you wish to make them so,
these four years can be your best.
The S. C. M. believes it can help you
make them great.”

   
   
 

   
  

 

SOCIETIES

DAWSON GEOLOGICAL CLUB |

The Dawson Geological Club was
formed in 1982 by Professor G.
Douglas and has been Fanctioshis
each year with ever increasing success. Prof. Douglas obtained the
idea of a club of this kind while
attending Cambridge University
where there is the Sedgewick Geological Club.

The Club was named in honor of
Sir William Dawson, the eminent
Canadian geologist who was an authority on the geology of the Maritime Provinces, and who wrote
' “Acadian Geology”.

The chief aim of the club is to further interest in geoglogical thought,
and to enable its members to meet
and discuss matters pertaining to
Geology; also to provide field trips
to various parts of the province in
order to see points of geological
importance.

Activities of the club include
several field trips to different parts
of the province in the fall, and fortnightly meetings during the winter
and early spring; these activities are
_concluded with a banquet.

Places to which field trips have
been taken in the past include
Waverly, Grand Lake, Governor’s
Lake, Herring and _ Portuguese
Coves, Mt. Uniacke, Montague,
Londonderry and Tatamagouche.

This year the Club plans to cover
within a radius of 100 miles, four
of the main highways leading to
Halifax, and, having obtained information on all. points of Ss

 

 

 

 

interest, to put the results in a
booklet form for the benefit of
tourists or anyone interested.

The executive of the Club this
year include W. R. MacQuarrie, H.
N. MacDonald, Carleton Stanley.

 

MIDLOTHIAN

society which meets at Shirreff Hall
weekly throughout the winter. The
membership, limited to fourteen,
comprises those students who have
a particular interest in reading and
writing. Each member delivers -a
paper annually on a favourite book,
author or poet and the papers are
followed by discussions. The HonPresident of Midlothian is
Miss Anna McKeen, Warden of
Shirreff Hall. Other officers are
Freda Cahan, President and Barbara
Murray.

orary

ely |

Today and Saturday

‘COME AND GET IT

and

‘Park Avenue Logger’

Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday
‘Breakfast For Two’

and

‘Great Guy’

=
EE EE

Adults - 1l5c ” 30c

 

 

TEL, B. 6563

“EVERYTHING ON

CREDIT”

“EASY PAYMENTS”

Kay's Limited

446 Barrington Street

 

HALIFAX, N. S.

Our advertisers are Halifax’ best merchants—patronize them.

 

Midlothian is a women’s s

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

oPuHE

TIGERS PRIMED FOR AXEMEN

 

 

High School Meet
Doused By Rain

In spite of most unfavourable conditions of weather and track the
Maritime Interscholastic Track and
Field Championships were successfully held at Studley last Saturday.
Rain had so flooded and soaked the
track that the events did not get
under way until the afternoon and
the last race was run in darkness.

The championship, and the Dalhousie Bowl was won decisively by
a strong team from New Glasgow
High School, led by Bob Macdonald,
who was the highest individual
scorer. The outstanding athlete of
the meet was Gordon Boak from
Amherst, who won the three sprints,
running the hundred yards on a
heavy track in 10 2/5 seconds, equalling the meet record for this event.
Another remarkable achievement
was a fine javelin throw by Geldert
of Lunenburg for a distance of 138
feet, setting a new record.

Meeting Packed?

John Dickey, second year Law
student, was elected President of
Sodals Debating Society for the ensuing year at a meeting held yesterday. Other officers appointed
were Graham Murray, Vice-President and Don MacKeigan, Secretary.

The presidential vacancy was
created by the resignation of Rowan

| Coleman who was elected last
fesse
In a short address Lawrence

O’Brien heatedly told the interested
spectators that only a small number
of those present had even taken an
active part in debating circles.

Murmurs of “packed meeting”
were heard in the room as Mr.
Dickey was elected by an _ overwhelming majority. The only other
candidate for the presidential office
was James Milner, third year Law
student and influential member of
Weldon Inn Fraternity.

GLEE GLUB SHOW
TONIGHT
at 8.00
GYMNASIUM

 

: Student | Assembly |
|

The local assembly committee of |

| National Student Assembly has had |
| Just one year of life.
to sponsor the National Conference
of Students, which was held at Win
nipeg last December, and has continued as an active union between
Canadian University students.

are to link all Canadian university
students from coast-to-coast, to
promote any movement for the welfare of the students and to organize
a biennial Conference of Canadian |
University students. At present, the
national executive, realizing the inadequacy of the Scholarship system
in Canada, is attempting to increase
the National awards, The local assembly is doing all in its power to

 

respect. It is also making arrangements for the lecture tour of Grant
Lathe, who spent the summer travel
ing with an International Student |

delegation through war-torn China.

In addition, this committee is ar-|
ranging for a series of lectures with |

discussions on various problems of
local and international interest to
students. The members of the local
committee are Anne Hirsch and
Glynn Firth (Co-chairman), Barbara
Murray and Reginald Stubbs.

Things to Come

It originated |

The |
objects of the National Assembly |

assist the national committee in this!

  
  

   
 
   
  
  
 

October 7, 1938

 

  

Freshmen

You

Are Needed
a)
Turn Out

For
Football

  
  
  
   
    

 

Turn Out For
Your F aculty Team

| The number of those who can
| represent the university on the first
‘and second teams is naturally lim‘ited by the size of the teams, so
| that not every one can make the
first and second teams. There are,
besides, some who feel they cannot
give the time necessary to playing
‘for the college or who know they
have not the necessary athletic
| ability, but still like to play a game.
| The answer, for all of this group, is
| interfaculty sport. The standard of
competition is not so high as to
prevent any one from taking part
in it. With few exceptions the players are of only ordinary ability, so
that interfaculty sport is sport for
anyone in the university.

There are organized leagues in
football, hockey, basketball and
softball and an interfaculty track
meet that will be held some time
| this month. Interest in interfaculty
sport sometimes reaches a high
pitch, especially in the professional
schools. All that it requires for
success is an efficient management
of the leagues and an efficient man
ulty. In interfaculty sport lies the

 

‘game they wish
league and to have their picture in

Dalhousie, early in the New iene the Year Book, if they are on the

is to have a visit from a McGill
University student, Grant Lathe,
who was this summer a member of
an International Student delegation
to China “to make a thorough investigation of the present situation
in China with a view to making
widely known the results of this investigation on its return.” Grant
who is a final year Medical student

at McGill, discovered the horrors of |
“Collapsing

a war-torn country.
buildings, torn-up lamp posts, shattered store fronts,
pletely destroyed, no houses standing, skulls lying about’”—these are
excerpts from his written accounts.

But he discovered, too, a new spirit}.

arising among the people.
camps,
existing on an individual living allowance of sixty cents a week, are
|\fast becoming organized communi| ties where the spirit of an enlight| ened people is striving to protect
| Right and Peace.

Refugee

churches com-|

winning team.

B. A. ASPIRANT—

(Continued from Page One)

 

money at this school? Come on,
Sally, what’ll I put down to fill up
this card?

three classes.

I still have to sign for
How about Bib. Lit.
—I don’t care what it’s like, as long
as the prof. gives me forty. . . And
English 9,—that’s the class where
you get cake and coffee at the professor’s house . . . Well, that’s that
. That’ll get me my B.A. if I pass

 

where hundreds are merely |

in Math I.
tempt is always successful

Highminded Freshman — “What’s
Life anyway ?”
Absent-minded Soph.—‘‘10c copy.”

opportunity for anyone to play any
in an organized |

They say the third at-|

 

 

 

INDIVIDUAL SPORTS
MOOTED FOR GIRLS

Well,

again with a new athletic year just

well, well! Here we are
beginning and Phil Wray doing her
darndest to make girls’ Sport go
over with a bang.

Part of that bang was on Saturday when our Dal girls beat the
The
raisers on our side were Carley
Sullivan, Irene Pentz, Bette Thomas,
Zilpha Linkletter, Joan Anderson,
Marjorie Maclean and Maureen Allen.

Waeg. tennis team. banner

There was some lovely raquet
swinging on the new courts and it
certainly was a grand christening
match for them. We must keep this
reputation up and for that we need
lots of new material. Anyone interested, whether a beginner or not
should get in touch with either Miss
Wray or Carley, D. G. A. C, tennis
manager. If you want a good game
with Carley or a good lesson with
Miss Wray it’s up to you.

This year new stress is being laid
on individual sports because they

|can be carried on after college, and
ager for each sport in every fac
so golf has been started for beginners. However, one need not expect
to find golf balls in room 3—cotton
balls will be used. Miss Wray will
provide golf balls and will teach all
sorts of drives, approaches and
putting. Beginners can learn a lot
this way and we think it an excellent idea and a good chance to start
this popular game.

Of course, there will be ground
hockey again and it looks as if it
will be a major sport this year if a
league between Dal., H. L. C., and
Edgehill can be arranged. Phil
Hendry and Barb. Schwartz hockey
manager have been working on this,
and there seems to be a fine chance
of it. Many freshettes have signed

| up and if last year’s girls turn out

there should be a team that will
avenge the defeats of former years.
Last year the D.G.A.C. bought a lot
of new hockey sticks and pads, and
so there is equipment for plenty of
people.

Upper classmen who are interest
|ed in physical activities should hand

in their time tables to Miss Wray, so
that she can arrange hours for
games and gym classes which will be

| suitable.

Ambassadors of Good Wool—

that’s what a lot of people call us. To know our appealing, lustrous
woolens is to love them. They’ve got everything to make you happy
—they’re good looking, they wear well and you're proud to be seen
in them. And here’s a financial note: although you’d pay plenty
more for the same quality at a custom tailor’s, we’ve pulled a lot
of strings to offer these fabrics to you at our usual thrifty price.
Visit our attaché at your nearest Tip Top store.

$2 qs

HAND-CUT AND TAILORED TO YOUR PERSONAL MEASUREMENTS

422 Barrington Street

PRS eae

AILORS

 
