  
  

 
 
 

 

>

VOL. TXXI

~ Players Delight Students
Chemistry Tsstre Packed

 

_ The Chem. Theatre was packed on
Tuesday when Miss Gladys Spencer,
Miss Janet Barrow, and Mr. Howard
Fairtlought of the London Repertory
Company spoke informally to the
students. They were introduced by
Prof. Bennett on behalf of the Arts
and Science Society.
_ Mr. Fairtlough began by saying
that his Company had adopted “The
Theatre as an Empire Ambassador”
as a slogan, They felt that the live
theatre. could reach into the hearts of
everybody and by exchanging ideas
could preserve the ties between England and her Empire. Canned entertainments cannot accomplish this
because they are produced as a
commercial proposition, while a
Company like Mr. Fairtlough’s aims
primarily at artistic success.
~ “Professional theatrical artists
often make mistakes but they learn
how to cover them up—a thing that
amateurs do not always have the
chance to do.” Mr. Fairtlough told
of an experience he had had while
playing in an English Pantomine
“Robinson Crusoe”. Through a mistake he had landed in the wings in
a ballet costume when he was supposed to be a naval officer in the
next scene.

(Continucd on page 3)

“ seiisess ies. rs

en

year psc ie Rislatchios

ea. the Exchange of Under
graduates Plan of the National Federation of Canadian University
Students, and are in attendance at
sister Universities in other parts of
Canada.

Of these, six are from the University of Western Ontario, three from
‘Dalhousie, two from the University
of British Columbia, one from Mount
Allison, and one from Saskatche.wan.

Six are in attendance at British
Columbia, four at Toronto, two at
Dalhousie and one at the University
of Alberta.

The Dalhousie students who are
this year enjoying exchange scholarships are Betty Sandall, who went
to British Columbia, and Prudence
Kim and Jean Forbes, both of whom
went to Toronto.

At Dalhousie this year we have

(Continued on eo page 8) 3)

b Bebdeethccc, Chosen

Lawrence, Hanway of Amherst and
Frank Corcoran of Moncton, were
chosen to represent Dalhousie in an
intercollegiate debate with Mount
Allison to take place in Sackville on
February 28th. They were selected
after trials on the subject “Resolved
that this house believes in ghosts”.

According to Lawrence Hanway
there are three types of ghosts: the

“social” ghost, given to conversation
and the clanking of chains; the
“graveyard” ghost, who sits on
tombstones and frightens children,
the “butch” type who lives in castles
and walks around with his head

 

, “ahder his arm.

Frank Corcoran based his belief
in ghosts on the evidence found. in
Shakespeare. The presence of the
ghosts of Banquo and the King of
Denmark in Macbeth and Hamlet are |
sufficient proof that such supernatural beings exist, said the speaker,

Judges for the trials were Professors John Willis, Gordon Cowan, and
G. E. Wilson. John Dickie, President of Sodales, was the chairman.

:

 

Gym Committee Reports

 

At last Sunday’s meeting of the
Students’ Council, George Hagen,
Chairman Students’ Gymnasium
and Schedule Committee, presented
a verbal. report. Mr. Hagen re
viewed the powers of his committee
as laid down in the constitution, and
pointed out the uncertainty which
the Senate Gymnasium Committee
has about its own powers, about the
powers of the students’ committee,
and about the seat of final authority
for the control and direction of the
gymnasium. He discussed the attitude of both committees towards
improper behaviour and breaches of
regulation on the part of students,
and indicated their attitude towards
fines.

It was reported that a request
had been made that chairs, for evening meetings, should not be placed
on the floor before 5 o’clock, that
application forms for the use of the
gym were available and in use, and
that at present the schedule of
coming events showed a full time
table, with no “empty periods” for
the rest of the term.

Recommendations were made that
the gymnasium be opened on Sundays for Glee Club and D.A.A.C.

HALIFAX, N. S., JANUARY 27, 1939

 

No, 14

RENOWNED ALUMNUS Conference at Queens

 

DICK BENNETT, 1890-93

RT. HON. R. B. BENNETT

The Hon. Richard Bedford Bennett—lawyer,
legislator, and Dalhousie benefactor—will be in Halifax to-|
morrow enroute to England, which in future will provide the
setting for a career that already has reached dramatic heights.
From his birthplace in Hopewell Cape, N. B., to Dalhousie
University, to Calgary, and to Ottawa has been but a long
series of successes that devotion to the British Empire and his
native land has brought about.

At Dalhousie

Trained as a school teacher, R. B. Bennett studied law
with L. J. Tweedie, Premier and Lieutenant Governor of New
Brunswick. In 1890 he came to Dalhousie and the highlights
of his career here are gathered from old copies of the Gazette.
His name first appears in the Law Examination lists when he
makes four first class passes at the end of his first year.

statesman, | said, is known for achievements.

 

Though his name was little in the public eye at this time he

practices; that the faculty period onjmust have won the confidence of his fellow students, for his

evening periods; that the boiler room
be made habitable and turned over to
the D.A.A.C. for an office and meeting room; that if need be, part of
this room be used by the D.G.A.C.;
that a schedule book be secured for
the gym; and that certain alterations
be made in the management of the
gym and the teaching and directing
of athletics.

The Council asked that a typed
copy of the requests and recommendations be presented for the Council
records, from which relevant matters
could be referred to the Senate.
Consideration of some of the report
was deferred until it is received in
writing.

It was decided to have the chairman of the committee and the
executive of the Council meet on
Tuesday evening to consider further
some parts of the report, and to
draft recommendations to be sent to
the Senate.

 

Freshman Show at Last
Be Warned |

Next Wednesday the Freshmen
are really coming across with the
Freshman play. The title is a secret but concerns campus interests.
Gordon Kinley and Kae Robinson
pay the Juvenile leads. Kae acts
her usual role of charming, amusing, and peppy girl about college.
She unfortunately marries Gordon
without her mother’s knowledge.
Gordon, also aets his usual role.
Need any more be said? But to
continue with this pep talk, its
really a good show—QO, yes, yes,
yes! Bill Harvey mimies his. more
austere professors and_ seriously
considers editing a serious, hee
-book.. on . the propagation of
To this illustrious list of accomplished performers we add Kay
Hicks, the motherly type, Diz Morrel, who is continually bored with
life ‘n stuff and Penny Patchell as
the pert and efficient maid.

 

 

| Saturday nights be subject to change |name next appears as one of the managers of the Gazette. This
or cancellation like all other regular|is in his second year.

In this year, too, his name appears in
the notes on the Mock Parliament.

His career in the Mock Parliament is interesting. In 1890
he is mentioned in the Gazette as: “Sitting around the Treasury benches”’.

In 1891 he was a member of the cabinet. The Gazette
says: “Mr. Bennett then arose, quoted Tennyson and the Bluebooks, and believed in the government” |

In October, 1892, we find this note: “Hon. R. B. Bennett
is Premier and Finance Minister, and he outlined the policy of
his government and introduced his Cabinet.” Towards the end
of the same year his government was apparently thrown out
of office, for we find this

“Bx. Premier Bennett then took the floor in support of the
measure and in an elegant and telling speech pointed out to the
Opposition that such a tariff discrimination in favour of the|
rest of the Empire would be a greater boon to Canada than
any trade agreement with the United States.”

In 1893 Mr. Bennett graduated from Dalhousie Law School
with three firsts. The Gazette at that time published write- -ups
on all the members of the graduating class. Mr. Bennett’s was
as follows:

“Richard Bedford Bennett: Ah, who can paint the e gaze or
wipe from the tablet of his memory that form trembling with
the force of the fiery eloquence pouring forth from its rent.
As well try to sweep back the stormy Atlantic as to stem the
tide of oratory when Richard arose in his greatness. Bennett
was well versed in law and in New Brunswick decisions. He
overruled several Privy Council cases. In his final year he made
an attachment which will no doubt prove a lasting one.”

In Western Polities

At the age of twenty-three he was in Chatham, a law
partner to Mr. Tweedie. Fours later, on the recommendation
of Dean Weldon of Dalhousie he was selected to become a
partner of Senator James Lougheed’s rising practice in Calgary.
Very soon he was elected a member of the legislature of the
North West Territories, and in 1909 was a member of the |
Alberta Legislative Assembly.

By 1911 he was participating in federal elections and returned as a member for Calgary in the House of Commons.
His first important post was Director General of National
Revenue in Sir Robert Borden’s services in 1914, In 1921 he
was a member of the Cabinet as Minister of Justice and Attorney General. In 1926 he was Minister of Finance in the
Meighen Government, and in 1927 at the Winnipeg Convention
was chosen leader of the Liberal-Conservative Party. Three

years later he piloted his party to victory and became Prime
Minister,

 

 

 

Student

Prime Minister

There have followed nine strenuous years in public life,

years which have demanded the deep sense of responsibility

which has singularly marked Mr. Bennett’s discharge of his

duties, When he pledged himself as leader of the Conservative
party his words were:

“You have determined for me that, henceforth,

so long as
(Continued on Page 3)

‘some of their

|men: there is upon you responsibility |

Plans Scholarship C ampaign

NATIONAL SCHOLARSHIPS

Kingston, Ont., Jan. 23—(C.U,.P.)
—The bhimination of several months
of active campaigning to secure
| public endorsation and financial assistancé for the Canadian Student
Assembly’s National Scholarship
Campaign, was marked by a fegional conference of assembly executives at Queen’s University, Jan.
21 and 22. Those represented were
the universities of McGill, Montreal,
Toronto and Queen’s.

 

Bennett Speaks

Montreal, Que., Jan. 24, (CUP)—
“University trained men face the
responsibility of guiding Canada and |
formulating a foreign policy that will
ensure peace for the world,’ Rt.
Hon. R. B. Bennett told members of
the Graduates’ Society of McGill
today. In a farewell address the
former Prime Minister placed before
“younger men with hope and vision”
the task of preventing disintegration
at the hands of dictators.
Mr. Bennett described Canada as |
a country “with rich resources, with
great heritage”. The Dominion, he |
He |
condemned those who speak “of the |
disruption of this confederation”, and |
termed talk of secession as “merely | pects to have a crowd of 200 univerthe rhetoric of youth”. “By youth” | sity students who will make up the
he explained “I don’t mean the age, delegation. At the same time a
of the individuals who express such| Yegional conference of university
thoughts”. | students in this area will form the
Tracing the rise of Canada, he | content of a busy week-end in Otsaid one of the greatest problems | 3. Tentative subjects of discusfacing the country today is the de-| Sion at the conference will be edutermination of a foreign policy in| ¢#tion, national unity, foreign .polcommon with other members of the | !¢Y; youth hostels and co-operatives,

 

Regional Conference at Ottawa.

On the basis of the support already secured, the C.S. A. felt justified in proceeding with its plans
for a student delegation to Ottawa
on March 6th to keep a pre-arranged
engagement with the Hon. Norman
McLeod Rogers. The Assembly ex
 

 

Empire. A League of the British | relation of students and staff and
Empire is imperative, he said, to | Curriculum. ses.
prevent crises like that of last| Having elected from their num
September, for a united empire will| >be? @ capable group of representamake other nations take hata, tives, these will act for the whole
The solution lies in “constructive | ie eens ~ a ete naar
effort on the part of the university | ese eas? mt kre =
as a result of the discussions, a

men of this country, the men with sheet a Il b t
light and learning, the men with & Ce ee a eee

up very anare to stud probvision, the men who will consecrate | i ys study the prob
lea lem of “state” scholarships, the
adita
rl need for these and the means of
| their distribution.

 

talents on the
of their country’s need”.

He continued, “You university jun :
National Conference Week.
| The week-end in Ottawa will be

far greater than that of other men|
, . iy rece 2 % " Ly ey r¢ ae Tes 7 «
and women of this country, for you preceded by a concentrated National
have been given that knowledge, and | chol arships week. Features of this
week will be Transcontinental radio

you have searched for truth, and/|
you realize that if Democracy is to hook-ups, Canadian and Student
survive it must be Educated De-| PreSs releases, articles in popular

5

mocracy”,

 

 

 

Short Story

Once upon a time, in the session

 

Council Meeting

Students’ Council met Sunday at| f 1988-1939, at Dalhousie Univer2.30 p.m. in the Men’s Common| ‘ity, there was an Arts and Science
Room in the Arts Building. Absent | ®°clety. This society had a “Special
were Murray Rankin, Art Ormiston, Events Committee” which proved to
Phil Christie, and Peter Nicholson. | P& the best committee on the camBusiness included: pus that year. It was the best com
ae cs mittee because it enlisted stude

1. Decision to call a Student] — 5 ? haat
Forum) for Tharadan Pebruseeio support for its meetings. This was

Muic * . c ve —s

then a very hard thing to do at Dalhousie, though they say it is easier
now. Anyway, that committee asked
Mr. Ketchum to speak on Russia,
and when he did so the students
packed the room to the doors. They

to the

Constitution.

the amendment
Council

to consider

2. Announcement of the Malcolm
Honour Award Committee, which is
to be composed of Professor Wil
 

> | iL. s . eh
res Professor Bell, Shirley Kirk- asked members of the London Repepatrick, Fred Barton, and Henry | | tory Company to sneak. on. tonics
Ross. ‘ | connected with the theatre, and this
3. Acceptance of the report of

time the Chemistry Theatre was so
full that there was not even standing room.

All this only showed that the Arts
and Science Society was a well-run
body. That this important society
might be better organized, the Arts
and Science Executive decided to
draw up a constitution. They did

5. Appointment of Tom Sheehan, So, and again the ability of this
D.A.A.C. head, as Dalhousie mem- society was shown, for not a disber for the Board of Arbitration to senting voice was raised against it.
be set up between Dalhousie and (Except over the finance, but that
King’s to discuss eligibility of Dal (Continued on page 3)
men playing on King’s teams.

6. Naming of Harry Smith, Geo
Corston, and Ted Gordon as a committee of three to arrange a skating party for the student body. It

(Continued on page four)

the Student Gymnasium and Sched- |
ule Committee. (See separate story.)

4. Naming of Zilpha Linkletter
and Walter Murphy as a committee
of two to help Henry Reardon with
the sélection of records for the
dance after the Glee Club Show
Wednesday night.

a
To Kevin and Neil Meagher,
the Gazette extends its sincere
Sympathy on the passing of their
mother.

 
by

 

 

The views expressed in any column of The Gazette are those of the author; it cannot be
assumed that they represent the opinion of the student body.

 

GAZETTE STAFF oye
Editor: BERNARD GRAHAM - - - - - _ B-5033
News Editor: WALTER MURPHY - - -  B-6191
Asst. News Editor: BARBARA MURRAY - -  H-5152
Sports Editor: DOUGLAS LYALL - - - - _ B-2607
Business er: SIDNEY A. GILLIES - - _ B-5487
Exchange Editor: JOAN BL ACKWOOD - = 3B-9746

 

RT. HON. R. B. BENNETT

There are always some people about whom university
students think in an indefinite, respectful way, and of whom
they have a vague, general awareness. Among these people are
the governors of the university, the benefactors, and those
who have been connected with the university in past ages. The
governors are people whom one knows about, but whom one
never seems to know; people who have great power over the
university, and yet seem to be remote and unapproachable.
The benefactors are known for their kind gifts to the university. The students seem to imbibe unconsciously from their
surroundings, from their predecessors, and from the university
staff, the appropriate sense of gratitude and respect. They
realize that if it were not for the gifts of many benefactors
they would not enjoy the facilities and opportunities which
are now theirs. Beyond that their knowledge and thoughts
of benefactors rarely go. The students think more personally
and more warmly about those who have been associated with
the university in past ages. The influence of these last is much
more intangible than that of governors and benefactors; it 1s
more all-pervasive, and it seems to be more solidly interwoven
with the anecdotes and traditions of the university. These
people have walked through our halls, sat in our seats, lectured
in our class rooms, played on our rugby field, and have got into
mischief at our college.

To Dalhousie students R. B. Bennett symbolizes each of
these three groups; but he does much more than that. His
recent, active part in public life has made him a much less
legendary and much more real person than are most members
of these groups. In him these three find their synthesis; by
being a member of all, he stands out more prominently as a
member of each; against a background of conspicuous public
activity the governor, benefactor, and alumnus do not become

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

LETTER

Hollywood and
What It Represents

 

Editor, Dalhousie Gazette:

There appeared in the last issue
of the Gazette, a very entertaining
viewpoint on this subject. Entertaining, not so much in telling us
anything about Hollywood which we
did not already know; rather, because it attempted to reveal some
startling facts about ourselves,
which we have been content to
ignore.

The author was apparently using
Hollywood merely as an example
in criticizing our intellectual deficiencies. However, he very conveniently ignored the causes, and I
think that, once the causes are
recognized, we, the offenders are
quite justified in our offences.

There is a certain phase in the
development of the individual known
as education, and in turning to this
we shall find the true cause of our
distorted intelligence.

We remember our earlier education with a sort of nervous relief,
and would never repeat it for anything. Nor do we look on our college
duties today with any enjoyment,
unless it be that we hope to pass
and not have to repeat the ordeal.

We spend the first several years
of our education being fed on
prescribed quantities of facts. Then,
as we advance we are fed on whole
books of facts, and by the time we
get to college it is expected that we

should have created some appetite |

Obiter

I don’t know just what it is; perhaps it is from living in medias
theologias, but for some reason I
feel like delivering a sermon. You
can’t escape it, and I have chosen
as my subject one dear to the heart
of every theologue—hell. Such a
subject admittedly deserves the
greatest respect, but facts must be
faced.

 

Originally hell served the useful
purpose of scaring people into behaving themselves. Nowadays we
rather expect people to be good
for nothing. Sometimes they have
even less than nothing, if they happen to live in city slums. Still we
expect them to be good. This use
of hell gradually disappeared, but
towards the end it achieved a new
distinction. Our Victorian ancestors
in their self-satisfied way, looked
down upon their lesser neighbors
and felt that surely hell was made
for the neighbors, not for themselves.

At this point the beginning of
the end can be clearly seen. Today
hell has become a very degenerate
word. It is not the place it once
was. Its principal use, we have to
admit, is now as a “vituperate epithet,” to denote disgust or contempt. For example, as one might
say, “Oh, hell, civilization, thou art
cockeyed!” And it is, too, sometimes. Or if one is less kindly disposed, “This is a hell of a column.”
In either case I think you will get
my point. Sic transit gloria Tartari. (You may prefer the plural
“Tartarorum”. You may have it if

for these facts and actually desire to | You Wish.)

 

 

“What's wrong with a double feature program?”

“Too long between Sweet Caps !”

SWEET CAPORAL CIGARETTES

“The purest form in which tobacco can be smoked.”

 

 

 

Farmers’ Ice Cream

IS OF OUTSTANDING QUALITY
®

“Taste the difference”

less appreciated, respected and admired, but they do become | feed them to ourselves,

real flesh and blood, and the three are one.
* * * * *

Mr. Bennett's presence in Halifax brings to our attention
the many things that he has done for Dalhousie and the

| If you have any further interest

Well, I think it is safe to say that | in the subject I refer you to Alinine out of every ten college stu- | ghreri Dante’s “Divina Commedia”,
dents are pretty well fed up with| where the subject is dealt with in
this diet by the time they have seen | great detail. He writes only of the

    

 

FARMERS’ LIMITED Halifax

   

nse ——
distinguished part he has played in public life. This raises the
question of the relation of an alumnus to his university and of
a university graduate to his community and country.

For an alumnus to serve his university well he must be
grateful for what it has given him, sensitive to its worth,
appreciative of its value to the community, and conscious of its
needs and deficiencies. This is only possible if as a student he
has taken advantage of the opportunities the university has
given him, if he has appreciated his fellow students and understood what the university has meant to them, and if he
realizes sympathetically the problems and short-comings of his
university.

The university graduate is a specially equipped and
privileged person in the community. His being so is the result
of contributions and sacrifices on the part of others, which are
made as investments in him. It is therefore incumbent upon
the graduate to be sensitive to his responsibility to his fellows,
and conscious of the possibility and desirability of the investments in him returning dividends. This will be possible only
if the graduate recognizes the demands on him and accepts
them objectively and with a sense of responsibility, as a means

of serving his fellows, rather than exploiting them.
We are grateful to Mr. Bennett for bringing these things
to our attention by his presence and example.

 

Theft from Med Cloak Room

Changes to Be Made

Medical students were up in arms
this week following a series of thefts
from the Medical cloak-room which
culminated yesterday with the disappearance of an overcoat, scarf,
and gloves, the property of a first
year student.

A member of the Medical Faculty
yesterday stated that university authorities refused requests to renovate
‘loak-room facilities in order to inSure the safety of the personal
property of the students while attending classes and _ laboratories.
Reasons given, it was learned, were
financial.

An investigation by the students
themselves showed that property of
twelve first year students has disappeared during the present school
year. No tabulation has been made
to date of alleged thefts from members of other classes, though it is
known that several have occurred.

One of the most serious thefts
which might have resulted in the loss
of a large sum of money was that
of an endorsed blank cheque. The

 

prompt action of the payee-endorser

in stopping payments at all Halifax |
banks perhaps saved him from a

 

serious loss, though no report has
been received from banks notified of
any attempt made to receive payment,

Speculation is rife among law
students as to whether the embryo
doctors concerned would have an
action for remuneration against the
University. General consensus of

opinion among the legal lights is

that the University at the very least
owes a high duty to Dalhousie students to protect their personal propery while they are attending classes.
Mention was also made among the
lawyers of holding a test case in the
Supreme Moot Court of Dalhousie
though yesterday at a late hour the
Moot Court committee could not be
contacted.

A letter has been drafted by first
year students asking for “better
protection for our property” and has
been sent to Professor R. J. Bean,
Secretary of the Faculty of Medicine. The letter numerates the missing articles and states that the
thefts have “become an alarming
problem among students of this
clase”.

It has been learned that the back
door of the Forrest Building which
has been open all this college year
and by which a thief might easily

 

 

a few years of college life. After
all, it is an accepted fact, applying
to adults as well as students, that a
person will naturally dislike anything forced on him, and if anything

was ever forced on anyone it was |

this fool system of education in
which we take so much pride.

When we have to do something
we dislike, is it not likely that, at
the first free moment we will submerge ourselves in those things we
do like. Much as the swing of a
pendulum; never swinging from an
extreme to a perfect equilibrium

| immediately, but rather to an equal |

opposite extreme.

Now it has been admitted that
moving-picture entertainments “instead of dealing with reality are
burrowing deeper and deeper into
an abyss of trite and nonsensical
banality;” and this the author
greatly laments, he would rather
have us turn to drama and the
legitimate stage. I say that this
so-called “abyss of trite, etc... .”

>

is an ideal refuge from the distaste
we concern ourselves

| with the intricacies and complexities

of the drama and the stage, as well
as with worries of the intricacies

‘and complexities of our everyday

life G. K,
a reeeriniieeeciabpessenseeeoeeeeeeeeeeenineee

leave the cloak-room unobserved, has
been ordered locked by authorities.

Further precautionary measures |

to be taken in the immediate future
include the placing of a large light
in the centre of the medical cloakroom which will be kept on wheneever there afte students in the
building and which, it is hoped, will
aid in the detection of any suspicious character seen in the room reserved for students only.

The present medical common room
is to be changed into a cloak-room,
it was said. The new cloak-room
will be situated at the bottom of the
main stairs leading to the basement.

eS eee

NOTICE
Class ’39

Class ’89 will hold a meeting in
Room Three of the Arts Building on
Tuesday Noon. Everybody out.

 

Voice over the phone: “Pop, guess
who just got kicked out of college ?”

 

 

' |the stage
ful duties of our normal existence. |

| Why should

 

first use of hell as noted above. For
the third use, see almost any modern novel.

In Defence of Sam.

If our dear editor will permit me,
I should like to take issue (a polite
legal expression meaning to heartily
disagree) with some of the comments expressed in last week’s esteemed and honorable editorial. Not
being much of a theatre-goer myself (I take in Jessie Matthews
when she comes around, but little
else.) I cannot speak
tongue of angels or even as one
having authority, but I did see one
or two that were not mentioned
last week,

Now in the “Amazing Dr. Clitterhouse,” a most delightful comedy,
I do not recall so much as one kiss,
let alone a complete design based
on the “boy getting girl” theory.

| Unless it was that the boy did not

get the girl, so there could be no
kissing. I regret that I did not see
presentation of “Dead
End”, but I can say with a reasonable amount of surety that in the
picture kissing was reduced to the
irreducible minimum. And besides,
dear editor, what has your contributor got against kissing? It is darned
nice, I think. He should try it
sometime. The truth of the matter

jis, that Hollywood, like Shakespeare

(of whom we shall hear more next
month, English II please note,) has
to write and produce for its audi
 

 

Dance Favors

with the |

HENRY BIRKS AND
SONS LIMITED

 

 

 

ence. Art, even in Shakespeare’s
time, had to be put on a paying
basis if it intended to exist,

Perhaps Shakespeare had a more
intelligent audience, but I have my
doubts. It will be admitted that
Bill was not uniformly great, and I
will admit that Hollywood is not.
The trouble seems to be to get
someone to admit that Hollywood is
not uniformly poor.

If Mr. Bennet will skip a lecture
any time for Myrna Loy, and four
years ago he said he would, it will
have to be admitted that one authority on drama finds something
to his taste in Sammy’s colony.
Metro-Goldwyn-Meyer may say “Ars
gratia Artis” before every picture,
but Sammy knows that “Business is
Business”, and until the communists
take over, he’s right.

J. B. M.

 

 

 

 

what you eat, but
MORE to

WHERE you eat it.

as usual—at Birks.
You will find it at a

satisfactory price too.
we suggest

The

Green Lantern
407-409 Barrington St.

Diamond Merchants

Seek for the unusual
Halifax, N. S.

 

&
Pay attention to

 

EATON’S

 

Announces the
Lowest Price in Years

 

on Rade-to- Measure
One Trouser Suits

$9950

(extra trousers 4.00 pair)

 

With the same quality standards of fabric, style, fit and
workmanship that have won for EATON MADE

CLOTHES the reputation of Canada’s Greatest Made-toMeasure Suit Value!

With over 250 new
choosing,

With our desi
spring styles.

spring cloths now ready for your

gners ready with a group of approved new
EATON’S—Main Floor.

“T,. EATO NC°

ARITIM LIMITED

 

 

 

 

stern

 
  
   
   
   

a

| From Verse to
> styles of some well known English poets have been parodied by
of Dalhousie students, who have rewritten the well-known nursery

Ltt Oe ee ee we eee

  

Twinkle, twinkle little star

a! How I wonder what you are,

a! Up above the world so high,

re Like a diamond in the sky.

. A _ The styles are in chronological order. How many can you recognize?

_A Star did twinkle in the sky this night
Though in high gloom the world was all bedight
Me seemeth it was angel atte beste

_ What of its kind I leave you the reste.

* ++ * #

O thou who first wast touched by God, and made
To Him His praise amid the shining choir
Of angels that to Him pour forth in song
The words of adoration; shine tonight
And fill my soul with rhapsodies sublime.
* = cs * *
Issued from the east, its nocturnal home,
A scintillating star to heaven’s dome;
Its radiance—playing a most wondrous part—
Challenged the skill of ev'ry goldsmith’s art;

EF
ss

5
a

Taper, Taper burning bright

In the darkness of the night,
What immortal brain or eye

Dare mould thy blazing symmetry?
What is your shape? your size?
What human can surmise?

What immortal brain or eye

Dare mould thy blazing symmetry ?

Wee, twinkling, blinking star above
O! what a panic thou maun have.
Thou fearst the dawn will come sae hasty.
What then? wee star 7 it canna scaith thee.
Go, look you, there’s my star: above Orion,
The one that smiles and laughs; but ne’er puts out
The fervid glitter that doth make one feel
It is a shining part of all God planned.

7K * Bs Be 3K
Twinkle, twinkle, little star,
Gleaming, beaming, from afar.
Airy, fairy spirit sight,
Shining with unearthly light.

%

 

Small, silver spark
Deep in the dark,
Glit and gleam,
Burn and beam.
Twinkle nightly,
Coldly, brightly—

- Diamond wrought.
Living or naught?
What can you be—
Eternity?

Ri a oe

- Gaze high—gaze up upon the star!

_ First lord in the pierced gloom of heaven!
Like unto an angel’s omnipotence—
Star-bright, fluttering sputtering guttering, gaining waning
waxing winking blinking twinkling :—
| Sprinkling the knowledge of thy divinity upon us.

r= 7"

Blink ever on, O perky little star.
Let go your laughter and chuckle gaily at this mad
below.
P Your spirit is sadly lacking down here and maybe will never
return, maybe.
Around and around goes the world and the night-clubs and
the zoo’s and you.
And a little star shall lead them
Lead them on: straight to Hell.

Personal Problems Department “Committee Considers Hart House

Dear Sally: I'd love to go to a} For Luncheon of King and Queen”
formal.—Shirreff Hall Freshette. ‘is a headline in The Varsity, Uni
Dear Freshette: That’s just the’ versity of Toronto’s newspaper. A
way to get there.—Sally. | healthy lunch, to say the least!

y BENNETT— (Continued from Page One)

I have the health and strength, I must dedicate my talents
P and my time, such qualities as I may have, the fortune that
: God has been good enough to give me, to the interests of my
| country through the great party I am privileged to lead.’
P Now ill-health has compelled him to give up the duties to
which he pledged himself and retire into private life.

But there is a more personal side to Mr. Bennett’s life of
which Maritimers and Dalhousians in particular are most
familiar. It is that which made Mr. Bennett travel across half

: a continent each year to spend Christmas with his mother and
later his brother. And it is this side which is interpreted in
the generous gifts to his Alma Mater.

In 1928 the Right Hon. R. B. Bennett was the special
speaker on Munro Day and was referred to by the late President, Stanley MacKenzie, as one of our greatest benefactors
and the cause of the notable benefactions of nearly a million
dollars from the Shirreff-Eddy estate. It was his personal
gift of $20,000 that purchased the residence of the President

in 1925; $25,000 with which he endowed the Weldon Memorial
\ Chair of Law in 1928, and $3,500 which has been used in the
/ purchase of books for the Law Library and Shirreff Hall
_Library. The Bennett Shields for debating are other gifts.
> The farewell to Richard Bedford Bennett tomorrow will be
z impressive one. The Board of Governors, in conjunction

vith the Canadian Club, have arranged a large luncheon aboard
the Montclare, which will be attended by well over two hundred
Halifax citizens. A delegation of Dalhousie students will present the former Premier with a scroll, which will bear the signature of every student. The Dalhousie Law Society will present him with an address and have asked that, if it can be
7 arranged, this former member speak to the lawyers.

world

a

   
  
  
 
    
 
 
 
  
   

\\

EY

|

 
 
  

ce

       

F i
ae |”

—.'S

 

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Play Judged

On Wednesday evening after the
Glee Club show, Mr. Bennet, acting in the capacity of “skeleton after
the feast, judged the three plays
that so far have been presented for
the Connelley Shield — “Mariposa
Bung” by the executive, “Overruled” by the Players’ Guild and
“Hands Across the Sea” by the
Newman Club. Mr. Bennet’s first
comment was upon the general excellence of all three plays which far
surpassed anything that was presented last year. “Mariposa Bung”
to use his own words was haphazard and rambunctious—a delightful
piece of absurdity—and was remarkable for the fact that the actors
seemed to be having a wonderful
time regardless of what the audience might be doing! Lack of stage
facilities and the tension of exam
week helped to tide over any roughness of script or production—note
the “descent of Groucho Marx as
the deus ex machina” and “walking
the plank”, and altogether, in Mr.
Bennet’s opinion, it is deserving of
a prize anywhere at any time.

The second play, “Overruled”,
was an admirable choice, being
practically fool proof—small cast,
witty dialogue and easy setting.
Added to this a splendid cast well
directed, made up in Mr. Bennet’s
opinion a very excellent play. It
ran smoothly, the stage grouping
and acting was natural and there
was no obvious prompting. No one
reached the heights but all were
good. Walter’s obvious “heavy
weights” and Bud’s_ conscience
gave the last inch of realism. Unfortunately for the audience, ‘according to Mr. Bennet, the players
were almost too much at home in
their surroundings (tut! tut!) and
did not speak as loudly as they
might have done. |

The third play by Coward was
kept alive by Adine’s splendid acting. This time the play had to
eatch up with the actors instead of
vice versa. Mr. Bennet’s criticism
lay in the obvious prompting, difficulty of cross timing, furnishing,
and unnatural profanity. Here, Mr.
Bennet’s wonderful interpretation
of how one should swear naturally
and fluently was upliftting, and his
shadow acting of “Oh Darling” was
beyond compare. Really, Mr. Bennet should be given a prize himself
for conducting so many one-act
plays impromptu with such huge
success, or he should apply for a
place in the cast of the London
Repertory Company! The audience
was also handed roses (not spinach) by Benny, which was most
unusual.

 

EXCHANGE—

(Continued from page one)

Mr. W. A. Russell from the University of Saskatchewan and Miss Mary |
Hayman from Western Ontario.

 

Eleven other Canadian Students
who were absent from their “Home” |
universities last year under the Exchange Plan are now back continuing
their studies. Under the Plan a
student may spend one year at a)
university other than his “Home” |
university without paying tuition or |
Student Council fees, and the saving
thus effected usually more than compensates for the transportation costs
involved. The Plan was devised)
nine years ago by the N.F.C.U.S. in
co-operation with’*the various university authorities, and is open to
students of practically all faculties.
Applications are now being received
by the local N.F.C.U.S. representative for the term 1939-40 and inquiries should be addressed to him,
or to the Registrar’s Office.

 

 

Toronto, Ont.—The graduates of
1923 in the Faculty of Applied Science and Engineering have established a bursary of $150 a year, to
be used to assist a student in that
faculty. The student who receives
this award will be one who has completed the second or third year in
Applied Science and Engineering in
the University of Toronto, and who,
in addition to intellectual capacity,
his ability in leadership, and who is
in financial need.

Book of Bunk

CHAPTER IV

1. And so it has come to pass
that three males of the Lande of
Dal, grown weary of the Shees of
the lande, went out in search. And
Lo! they happynged upon a strolling
bande of players who had come from
afar. Beautiful to behold were the
Shees of the compaignye and the
three males held council. And they
plotted deeply but not quietly for all
the studes knewe. And their plottings were rewarded for at the houre
of one minute before midnight Boob
of the Lande of Mait, the Princling
Karl, and Gord of the Kin appeared
at the Glee Kloob for All to see.
And the studes marvelled for at
their sides were three Shees of the
bande of players.

2. And the tale of the Three
Males continues, For ’tis seyde that
plentiful was the drynke and sweet
the entertainment and the fyve hours
sped speedily and early was the
morn before Each reached his hous.

3. And Many were those who
complaigned of the music of the
Whurl-it-zer after the Glee Kloob
shew. But Vox Populi was in vain.
And the Kronicler lerned that the
leaders of the orchestras of the Toun
have boy-cotted Glee Kloob daunces,
but this is not known for sure.

4, And Much was the speeche in
the campes about the arrival of the
once First Minister of the Lande.
And Hundreds are the Names which
are signed to lasting parchments
which are to be presented to this
famus grad of the School of Lawe.
And to-gether with the studes of the
Lande of Dal the Kronicler wishes
this Great Canadian much happiness
in the Lande of his ancestors.

5. And the Kronicler lerned of a
beautiful Shee from Shee-reff Hall
whose face was flooded with flushes
when she received a reprimand from
a member of a strolling bande of
players. For Kay of the Son of Rob
gig-gled aloud at the antics of this
player and the player in anger seyde
“I knew a girl who giggled like you
on the boat.” And the face of Kay
of the Son of Rob was diffused with
hot blood and so was the face of her
male companyon, who, strange to
relate, was not in the compaignye
that day of the Faire Helen of the
Hall.

And so endeth the Fourth Chapter
of the Fifth Book.

® FILTER @

 

 

Campus Chatter informed me that
Filter must be written by a Shirreff
Hall Girl because the only people
who crashed the column were inmates of that institution. They
were wrong. It’s a case of confused
identity. We city lads and lasses
live such pure and ordinary lives
that no dirt can be found in our
comings and goings.

 

This week we present a column
free from soot and Hall gossip.
Roses are red
Violets are blue
Dandelions are yellow
And tulips are all colours.

 

At 10.30 A.M., Jan. 28th:
Mary, Mary, quite contrary
How did the party go?
With gin bottles and Rickey caps
All in a row?

 

Gladys Spenser is simply fascinated by our accents and—yes, Jack
Reynolds and Bill Harvey. Their
pet amusement attracted a fair
amount of attention — and that too
was O. K.

 

What was in the wire Walter
Murphy received before his performance Wednesday night and who
sent it?

 

The cast of Shaw’s play were
“Naturals” for the parts.

 

How is Bud’s mother? ?

 

Break, break, break—at the foot of
thy crags, O Sea!
You’d have to break a hell of a lot
"Ere you’d be as broke at me.
—The Gateway.

nn

|

=

 

Page Three

 

Whispering Gallery

By Aftermath

Twinkle, twinkle, little co-ed,

What goes on inside your head?

Thoughts of dates and THE Tech
Ball,

And wrangling late-leaves from the
Hall?

Speaking of late-leaves just where
have those certain Freshettes been
that signed out for Supper Dances
but who somehow carelessly omitted
to take in the Nova Scotian during
the course of the evening. A true
case of the Ass in the lion’s skin
since Freshettes are always so innocent in appearance. Dirty work
at the cross-roads it would seem.

If you happen to notice a strained
look around the eyes of the female
populace on the campus don’t worry,
—since it’s not that they are collectively heading for a nervous
breakdown, but are worrying over
the Tech Ball—to be, or not to be
sort of idea. It is odd that at this
crucial point of the month all the
money that Dear Aunt Jane gave
Jimmy for Christmas has unobtrusively slipped down the social drain
and he is left facing the thorny
problem that he cannot afford to
take THE girl to the Ball (isn’t it
the way with them all?) The whole
point of the situation is to have a
versatile—or should we say remunerative—set of friends so that one
can turn from the pound-foolish to
the penny-wise and so participate at
this gala function. But then, of
course, not every girl can manage to
control her Fates in such a manner;
however, “I Can Be Wrong” as
Rolly used to say!

Life around Dalhousie has been
very quiet—at least on the surface—
this last week. The usual run-ofthe-mill events—teas, shows and of
course the major event of the season
—the plays of the London Repertory
Company. That reminds us, just |
why was Jack Reynolds so keen on
sitting at the feet of Vavian Gaye
last Tuesday when some of the
members of the cast spoke to the
students? Even though Miss Gaye
didn’t turn up he, (and _ several
others) seemed to do very well in the
front row with Miss Spencer. What
has he got that the rest of us
haven’t? Better write in to Sally
Spry on that one. Mr. Fairtlough
made two excellent points that the
Glee Club might take to heart. He
said that they acted primarily for
Artistic Achievement and not financial, although the latter does count.
Unfortunately the reverse seems to
be true here. Secondly he stated
that once a member of the cast
walked on the stage “he can not

 

 

make a mistake,” which seemed to
be a revealing and pithy statement
which might very easily be digested
with effect by all Dal’s potential
actors.

However, let’s be mercenary as
usual. The March of Dimes on the
Radio could very well be utilized on
the campus if it were for the worthy
cause of an orchestra for the Glee
Club shows. After the disgraceful
exhibition put on by the Wurlitzer
Wednesday night, we hear rumers
that the freshman class is going to
provide an orchestra next week. We
hope it is not to gloss over the deficiencies of this extravaganza. And
why is the name being kept a sec
ret. The cold weather has had
several effects on the student
activities — skating and so forth

—but one of its most startling, and
may we add charming results is the
appearance of Shirley wearing a furtrimmed Babuska ... We hear that
an eminent Phi Chi took a masculine-feminine psychology test and
much to his horror came out with
a feminine standing. We don’t wonder so much at the result, but what
was Henry doing with a women’s
“Good Housekeeping?” There is
a new indoor sport now in vogue—
sliding down the bannisters in the
Arts Building in the spare evenings.
Tut! Tut! ... And have you heard
about the Supper Dance at the Hall
last Saturday night? It seems that
five or six world-weary Hallers decided that Halifax was Jacking in
worthwhile entertainment and so put
on their own show. Dressed in all
their evening finery they danced to
the strains of Jerry via the radio
partnered by the person of her
Choice. One said she danced with
two Bills, Hughie and John, and of
course herself, just for diversion.
The climax of the evening came
when refreshments were obtaimed
from the Bootlegger’s and enjoyed
in the Library. Never say that
originality is On the Wane. .. The
I. Q. of the students may be on the
downward trend according to professional statistics but individuals
still seem to possess the ability to
make brilliant remarks. Here is one
culled from a conversation at the
Dal store. “The recent success of
“Ferdinand the Bull” leads us to feel

| that because of the gold that poured

into Mr. Disney et al the title could
most appropriately be changed to
“Ferdinand the Bullion”. Who threw
that brick?

In discussing the co-ed edition
Betty asked, “How about a Sadie
Hawkins week?”; to which Bernie
immediately replied, “Is that an
invitation ?”

es

| SHORT STORY—

PLAYERS—

(Continued from page 1)

He rushed back and pulled his
naval costume on over his ballet
dress and somewhat out of breath
got to the stage in time for his cue.
The audience never realized what
had happened.

Miss Gladys
everybody by

Spencer astounded
Saying that

she |

(Continued from Page One)

can’t count because everybody loves
to talk about money.)

But then, and now I am coming
to the sad part of my story—then
they could not make this constitution legal. To do so a Students’
Forum, consisting of at least one
hundred people, had to change the

couldn’t stop listening to “all those | constitution of the Students’ Coun| fascinating ‘r’s’” in our speech. She cil. A day was appointed for the
| went on to say that she had worked | gathering of the masses to such a

in the Cinema and liked it, but she
pointed out that the theatre today
really feeds the Cinema. No great
author writes directly for the
Cinema; he writes for the theatre
and then his play is adapted for the
movies. Miss Spencer loves her profession because it gives her a sense
of power. She feels that the Cinema
is less intimate and personal than
the theatre because it is planned for
an international market and provides
no localisms. She added that she
would like to see the students in a
play.

Miss Janet Barrow described television and the difficulties of producing plays for television. She said
that she had found the experience
most terrifying. The cameras were
focused down on her so close that
they made her feel as if she were in
a dentist’s chair. She found the
technique used very different from
the stage. On the stage one elimin
|

forum. The day came—it was found
that for some inexplicable reason
the masses had not bothered to
gather. Those people, numerous at
the social meetings of the society,
would not help the society by coming to an important business meeting. Would you not say, dear readers, that a peculiar state of affairs
existed in that session of 1988-39?

There will be another Students’
Forum in the Chemistry Theatre
on Thursday, Feb. 2, at 12.00
o’clock. Be there!

 

ates all unnecessary gestures, in
television one must make as many
as possible.

Mr. Faritlough announced that if
there would be sufficient support a
student theatre night would be arranged. Everyone gave him a big
hand and, after Prof. Bennett said a
few words, the meeting broke up.
   

  

 

 

Cubs Defeated

‘Cubs Lose to Liverpool, 50—40

Though they had been warned to
be on their gu: |, the Cubs were
ely unawares in the

 

 

box-like Liverpool court last week,

and, while they waved futilely at
long shots and let the ball be taken
right out of their hands, the Merpacos ran up a score of 24 to 2
against them in the first few minutes of the game. After that the
Cubs set out to make up the deficit,
so that at half time the score stood
at 32 to 15.

In the second half the game was
wide open as the Cubs tried to overtake the Merpacos, but at the end
of | the game they were still ten
points behind.

If the Merpacos come to Dalhousie for a return game the Cubs will
be hard put to equal the hospitality
shown them at Liverpool. —

Line-up: Hutchins 9, Charman 12,
Lyall 9, Hatfield 6, MacKenzie 2,
Cameron 2.

Interfaculty Basketball
Law 21; Engineers 13

Out to add another title to their
football championship, Law, who
won the interfaculty basketball
league last year, defeated Engineers
21 to 18 for their second straight
victory. Led by senior player Clutch
McKimmie, Law widely outplayed
their opponents and should have
won by a greater margin. Bert
Vail, scoring on long shots, made
the best showing for the Engineers.

Line-up:

Law — Storey 1, McKimmie 12,
Piercey 2, Bingham 6, Murray,
Trites, Hanway.

Eng.—Vail 8, James 2, McAlden
2, Walters 1, Reeves, Sylvester.

Law, 9; Dentistry, 8
Law won their third straight victory from wrestler Abe Becker and
his Dentistry team by the low score
of 9 to 8. Clutch McKimmie of the
senior team again led the scoring
for Law.

Line-ups:

Law: McKimmie, 7; Bingham, 2;
Storey, Trites, Hanway, Piercey,
Teasdale.

Dentistry: Tokosh, 2; Greenberg,
Becker, Freed, 4; Archibald, 2.

 

Engineers, 23; Arts & Science, 21

In a much better game Engineers
went into second place in the league,
defeating Arts & Science 23-21. The
scoring of both teams was well distributed. Bert Vail of the Engineers
again led his team with nine points.

Engineers: Vail, 9; James, 6;
Walters, McAlden, 4; Purves, 4;
Brownhill.

Arts & Science: Grant, 4; Mercer,
4; Smith, 2; Charman, 4; Hart, 5;
McKean, 2; Burchell, Perlin, Tupper.

NOTICES
Applications for the position of
assistant manager of the basketball
team are being called for and are to
be made to Butch Lawson.

 

Players’ Guild:

Players’ Guild will meet Tuesday
evening at 7.30 in the Murray
Homestead.

Class °39:

Class ’39 will meet Tuesday noon
in Room 3, Arts Building.
Symphony Orchestra:

Symphony Orchestra will rehearse
2.30, Saturday, in the Gymnasium.
Student Forum:

Student Forum will be held Thursday noon in the Chemistry Theatre,
re proposed change in the constitution.

Newman Club:

Newman Club will meet Sunday
morning at 11, in Room 4, Arts
Building.

Badminton

Entries for the women’s and men’s
single badminton tournament close
Saturday. No entry fee.

   
 

18 SPRING GARDEN ROAD

 

GAUVIN AND GENT/EL

Special Rates to Students — 24 Hour Finishing Service

  

 

 

ONE ACTRESS

 

By Gazette Dramatic Critic.

We have all heard the cry of every
Hamlet from Richard Burbage down
to Maurice Evans that they were not
playing the role of the sorrowful
Prince, but that each one was the
Prince. The moral from that, is that
acting ability depends upon the individual’s ability to sublimate his
own character to that of the
character he is playing. The fact
that one party really acted Wednesday night makes that particular
evening rather an eventful one.

Secondly the night was eventful
because it produced another rarity
in Glee Club history—an intelligent
and sympathetic audience. As Professor Bennet quite nicely stated in
his “Summing up” that, “the critic
who has belaboured the illiterate and
ignorant Glee Club audiences will
kindly note that the laughs came in
the right place during “Overruled”.
We noted and humbly beg apologies.

It is customary to state in every
Shaw criticism that he is a pamphleteer, and an essayist and that it is
doubtful whether the theatre is the
true medium for his work. That we
dare differ from our more respected |
brethren is hardly likely.

The author states in his preface
that the play deals with the occurrence of polygamy “among quite
ordinary people, innocent of all unconventional views concerning it.”
It rather more strikes us as being
a condemnation of Mr. Doolittle’s
“middle class morality”. However
he admits that the piece is neither
for nor against polygamy but the
attitude of indifference and at times
enjoyment of the situation by the
female characters (who are the more
intelligent, the men being a little
stupid) would] lead one to believe
that he is quite willing for exeprimentation.

As a pamphlet the work woulld be |
dubious but as a play it is even more |
dubious. The characters are not.
drawn, as shown by the way “the
two male characters were continually interchanging their roles”. There
is no action because there are no
situations in which there is any
semblance of genuine emotional incompatability. If Shaw was interested in polygamy among “ordinary
people”, which we doubt, he decided |
“ordinary people” were not worthy |
of having emotions and stuffed them
full with hypocrisy instead.

The acting was quite suitable, particularly “the opening scene between
Margaret MacAskill and Graham
MacDougall.” Walter Murphy has
been playing the same role in Glee
Club shows for years but it has
always has a certain finesse not
noticeable in others. With the =<)
ing of Freda Cahan as Mrs. Lunn
we violently disagree, Mr. Bennet to|
the contrary. That she worked hard
at the role was noticeable but carl
She will never be able to play a|
woman incapable of feeling was also
noticeable,

That “Hands Across The Sea” is

 

 

 

| notable

performance

 

NEW GLASGOW MONACHS, 5
DALHOUSIE TIGERS, 0
New Glasgow Monarchs took first
place
League by defeating Dalhousie
Tigers, 5—0, Monday night at the

- DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

TIGERS TWICE DEFEATED

 

TRURO BEARCATS, 4
DALHOUSIE TIGERS, 3
Wednesday evening the Truro

in the Nova Stotia Hockey} Bearcats defeated the Tigers, 4—3,
when Lawrencé scored the last goal

| of the game in the second half of

Arena before a fair crowd of fans.| the third period.

The ice was fast, but so were the
Monarchs, and the Tigers failed to
keep up with them. Only in the
escond period did Dal control the
play, and then by virtue of four
man rushes. Sparked by Foster
Dickson, the New Glasgow forwards
showed some smooth passing plays
inside the blue-line, and during the
first and second periods were stopped repeatedly by Munro. Their
two first goals were from close in.

The second period opened very |
but it was not for long; within a

fast, and Dal managed to get the
better of the play throughout. The
final frame was all New Glasgow,
though Dal kept the puck inside the
Monarch’s line for a few rather
hectic mix-ups. Munro was called
upon to stop many close shots from
break-away rushes.

It was the poorest local showing
of the Tigers this season. Without
DeWolfe and Buckley, the attack

The Dal boys opened the score in
the first period with a goal py Collins, on a pass from MacDougall.
Truro followed with goals by Davis
and Mentis. In the second period
Dal tied the score, when MacDougall
sank the only tally of that session.

The third period was hard fought,
with rushes being made by both
teams. Truro scored the first goal
of the period. Ten minutes later
MacDougall dented the twines for
the Tigers, to again tie the score;

minute Lawrence got the puck past

 

Munro for the winning score.

As usual, Munro, with thirty-nine
stops to his credit, was the star of
the game. In the third period he
repeatedly brought down the applause of the fans with his amiazing saves.

Pooh DeWolfe, though not com
| pletely recovered from an injury to

was disorganized and the defence | his shoulder, was back in the game

wide open.
that he is a great goalie; but one
man can’t stop a team. George
Corston, Bill Thomas and Don MacGregor played good hockey. George
Collins was aggressive and displayed his best form to date. Feindel
was steady and did some heavy
checking.

Line up—Goal: Munro; defence:
Feindel, MacGregor, Graham; left
wing: Thomas, Collins, Bob Corston;
centre: MacDougall, Smith; right

wing: G. Corston, Dickie.
SS St eee ee:
telephone are at the best of times

difficult to do and these were far
from being the best of times.
The play itself was unimportant |

but that it unveiled an actress is,

more important. Without tongue in|
cheek we venture to say that “Did’s” |
Oland’s performance was the most
Glee Club interpretation
since Mary Marsh’s
in “Hay Fever”. She demonstrated
she could interpret a role and what
is more important she proved it was
possible still to project a character
across those poor bewildered Glee |
Club footlights. A dissection of the
will show
faults, for she wasn’t perfect. She
did overact but whether it was an
unconscious mechanism used to pull

the play out of the doldrums, or not, |

is difficult to say.
ideally suited to the part must not
be overlooked either, but she has
cultivated the little ote of acting
which make one stand out. Her
facial expressions which are still the

 

 

 

 

 

 

actress-mother |

 

Various }

That she was'!

Munro proved again! and paced the Dal attack.

 

HANDBALL

The Handball tournament got off
to a fine start last week, with the
Arts and Science team beating the
Freshmen Engineers 5-2. From the

 

results of the pre-Christmas games

Soph. Eng. were seeded first in this
tournament, Arts and Science second,
Freshmen D, third, and Freshmen B
fourth. The other four teams entered in the tournament are Kings,

|Freshmen A, Freshmen C and

Freshmen Engineers. The schedule
for the first round is:

Friday, Jan. 27, 5. 30 p.m::

Sophomore Eng. vs. Freshmen A. | land & Co. forgot to mention in

| Tuesday, Jan. 31, 11.15 a.m.:
Freshmen B vs. Freshmen C.
Tuesday, Jan. 31, 5.30 p.m.:
Fresh. Eng. vs. Arts & Science.
Thursday, Feb. 2, 5.30 p.m:
King’s vs. Freshmen D.
Friday, Feb. 3, 5.30 p.m.:
Soph. Eng. vs. Freshmen A.

—_ SSIES

 

 

most important part of an actors or |

actresses library, showed she is a
natural stage treader. In short, the
rest of the cast performed and Miss
Oland acted.

es er

 

Insist on Getting
Donovan’s Beverages

15 - Different Flavors - 15

W. H. DONOVAN
B-6821

——- en

45 GR: BN VILEE ST.

——-— —

 

They count—and you can count
“College Outlines”. Write for

St eae :

on better grades if you consult !

free catalogue. |

THE BOOK EXCHANGE |

| : Canada’s Book-Clearing House”

370 Bloor St. W.,

Toronto, Ontario aes

 

too difficult a play for an amateur

group to present was apparent five |
minutes after the curtain went up.
Just as “Overruled” lacked setion |
and depended on dialogue the |
Coward play was chock full of both
with the result that neither was
handled well. Movement on stage
should at most times be kept
at a minimum. Maximum movement |
was the case here with a denaliant|
bewilderment of all concerned.
Double conversations while at the

 

  

 
 

Phone B 6992

    
 

ea

OUR ANNUAL MID-WINTER

Sale of Fine Shirts

From our own stock and by such quality makers as

Forsyth, Arrow-Tooke and Lewis—Values to $2.50 now

$1.39 or 3 for $4.00

SHANE’S M

30 SPRING GARDEN ROAD

AD LIE OL A CC

EN’S SHOP ee

 

 

    

|

 

January 27, 1989

Money Order

Roy Atwood has announced an
addition to the services he offers
to students. Roy now sells Canadian National Express Money Orders and Travellers’ Cheques. If
you want to send money by mail,
or if you are going to travel, call
on Roy.

COUNCIL MEETING—
(Continued from page 1)
was suggested that arrangements
might be made to bring Mt. A. here
for a hockey game on the same
night as the skating session.
7. Acceptance of report of Gate
Committee, which stated that a net
profit of $40.00 had been made from
ae House of David basketball game.
8. Appointment of George Hagen
and Don Storey as a committee of

i i junction with the
almost immediately after the play xe which, a COBY ct pad ahi ’
executive of the Council, is to be in
had started. Dal] soon tied the score
charge of getting names for a
without much trouble and by half i Sites ha eomtntakcil “ihe
time was well in the lead. In the) Peery P

second half the Y squad picked up| Rt, Hon. R. B. Bennett on Saturand put in basket for basket with day January 28, as he stops in Halithe Dal girls. However, Dal easily |*** ©? his way to England.
maintained their lead which was 14
points at the end of the game.

Dal’s superiority was due not to
better players but to better téam ;
work; this was noticed especially int eee colorful posters, student
the first half of the game. ‘Towards dances,amateur nights, financial

the end of the second half the campaigns, tag-days, letters by all
Ou students to their members of par
liament, and in general every kind
of activity which the ingenuity of
Canadian students can muster to
give impetus to their campaign.
Provincial Preparations.

The students have not been inactive in their provincial fields. Some
of the western provincial govern‘ments are already firmly behind the
campaign. In trips to Ottawa and
Quebec during the past week Dr.

that we were darn lucky, but after | Grant Lathe, the national secretary
a little coaxing he admitted that of the C. S. A., and Jean Lanlois,
with lots of practice our team would | ©h@irman of the University of Monbe able to really get somewhere. | treal Assembly, were able to interThe Dal girls who played were J.| VieW many members of the provinAnderson, J. Blackwood, C. Sullivan, | cial and federal houses. Amongst
I. Pentz, P. Hendry, B. Schwartz, M. these were included the Ministers,
Wood, I. Smith, and R. Harrison. 'Gagnon, Beauchase and Bilodeau of
|the Quebec Legislature, who regard
the scholarships campaign with
tag days, rose days, poppy days, favour. Monseigneur Camille Roy,
and fire prevention weeks, clean-up Rector of Laval University, also enweeks, and-now it seems that H.L.C. dorsed the work very heartily. The
have posture weeks. Posture seems|irectors of the Youth Training
to be the one thing that Bob Mait- | Conference, which is being held at
_Ottawa, were also interviewed with
their criticism of Dal coeds, and on | t#VoUrable results.
that point they really could have As a whole, university and high

  
    
  

  

 

 

Girls’ Sports

On Friday night we saw the Dal
girls beat the Y.W.C.A: basketball
team by a score of 37-23. The game)
was played on the Y.M. floor, before |
a large crowd.

The Y team opened the scoring

 

 

 

ee

CONFERENCE—

(Continued from page one)

playing became rather ragged.
forward line of J. Anderson, J.
Blackwood, and C. Sullivan clicked
well and the guards did a good job
of intercepting the Y play.

The Y team have some good individual players but they had not
played together very much this year,
and their coach had not decided in
which positions it was best to play
them.

Red’s comment on the game was

 

 

 

Around here we have apple days,

 

'kicked! Miss Wray thinks that the|S¢hoc! principals, students, staff
actresses of the London Repetory members, men’s and women’s serCompany who spoke to us on Tues-| Y*°® clubs, labour organizations,
iday set a good example for ali the have all given the student bodies
virls who want to make the mokt of | Splendid support in their endeavour
theln possibilities: | to extend higher education in Can| il ad ada to a wider group of her capable
The freshette badminton classes are and ambitious youth.

 

|| Players, who are getting to be really

 

     
    
    
  
  

|coming along at a great rate and
Miss Wray is certainly getting results. We were watching a class
the other day and were amazed at
the improvement of

Visit Our Oyster Bar
Fresh Oysters, served just like
you want them at _ Boutilier’s
Oyster Bar. Open until 6 p.m.

BOUTILIER’S

BEDFORD ROW

some of the|!

good.

 
