   

oa rs

a

Ae

1

#3!
(pom _¢

ee

‘Vor. eee

te

 

 

 

CANDIDATES ENTHUSIASTIC;

STUDENT INTEREST QUIET
Candidates in the campus elections to be held Tuesday,

- March 7, are holding their breath and murmuring their last

  
  
   
  
  
   

xy

“a

 

prayers as the zero hour draws near. Arts and Science again
have a candidate for the President of the Students’ Council,
Douglas MacKean, who will oppose Fred Barton, a Medical

student. Since time immemorial, Medicine has held this most
important position on the Campus.

Most exciting is the race for the Vice-President of the
Council. Candidates are Shirley Kirkpatrick, first girl ever to
be nominated for the position; John Dickie, Law student; and

one-time President of Class

A

Henry Reardon, special student.

PRESIDENT STUDENTS’
COUNCIL

FRED BARTON, third-year Medical student; thrice Council member;
38;
Secretary-Treasurer of the Newman
Club; Tennis Manager; Malcolm
Honor Award Committee for three
ent Co-publisher of the Students’

Directory and Hand-Book.

Mi | DOUGLAS MacKEAN, third-year

tuc ent; twice Council member;
President; President of

| fou \ JOHN DICKEY: Peeond year Law

student; Sodales president; Newman Club president; Law Society
vice-president; one-time “Gazette”
sports editor; twice senior hockey
player; debates.

SHIRLEY KIRKPATRICK, thirdyear Science student; Council member for Class ’40; Secretary, Class
740; Malcolm Honor Award Committee; Manager of the girl’s swimming
team and the junior-senior interclass
basketball team; dance committees.

HENRY REARDON, special student; Year Book Business Manager
for four years; Manager of the
Medical Book Room; Medical Journal
staff; twice Tennis Manager; Hockey
Manager; Co-publisher of Student’s
Directory and Hand-Book.

 

PRESIDENT, D.A.A.C.
WALTER LAWSON, science and
engineering student, Class ’40; secretary-treasurer of the D.A.A.C.;
senior basketball manager; class
treasurer; interfaculty sports; interclass debating.

RALPH PLUMMER, third-year
Medical student; Council member;

one-time Assist. Football Manager; |

Football Manager for the present
season.

NOTICE
Student Forum:

A Student Forum will be held
Saturday noon, in the Chemistry
Theatre, for the purpose of meeting
the nominees to the major executive
position of the campus.

 

No. €. U.S.
Exchange Scholarships.

Final date for applications for
Exchange Scholarships has been
changed to April 1, instead of

| March 1 as previously announced.

 

 

VOTING LISTS

_ All students must see the voting lists, if they would be sure
of their right to vote Tuesday.
Report all omissions to your
Council representatives.

ica Freshman Class:
ce Kay Hi

L
4
I

PRESIDENT, GLEE CLUB

GORDON HISELER, first year
Law student; stage-crew member for
two years; stage manager; badminton team, two years; co-editor of
“Bulletin”.

LLOYD DALTON: Arts student,
Class ’40; twice Choral Society President; Band and Orchestra member;
Glee Club front-stage work; Players’ Guild; one-time class treasurer;
C.O.T.C. Battalion Adjutant.

 

COUNCIL POSITIONS
Arts and Science Society:

‘s, John MacInnes,
Other Representatives:

Joan Blackwood, Class ’40; Marion
Little, Class °40; Marjorie MacIntosh, Class ’41; Peggy Merkel,
Class 740; Jack Charman, Class ’41;
Gordon Kinley, Class ’42; Bob
Swansburg, Class ’42.

Commerce Society:

Frank Johnson, Jack Reynolds.
Dental Society:

Engineering Society:

James Roy, Bob Walter
Law Society:

Lawrence Hanway, Graham MacDougall.

Medical Society:

 

John E. Martin, Arthur W. Ormi-| maxim may be will be proven
ston, Charles Roberts, Raymond van/ at the elections next Tuesday.

Horne.

 

D.A.A.C. POSITIONS
Vice-President:
Douglas Cameron, Commerce, °40;
Harry Smith, Arts ’39.
Secretary:

SN

———————$$

Se

 

|

|

Right:

/ELECTION— |

HALIFAX, N. 58.,

 

For ee sP resident |

 

Left: Fred Barton

Doug MacKean

SS

Election Forecasts
So What?

Fred Barton will be the next
Council President, and Henry
Reardon will be the next VicePresident; Butch Lawson will
be the new D.A.A.C. President ;
Gordon Hiseler will lead :

 

Glee Club next year. Thus are
the results of an advance poll
of the coming elections taken
by the Gazette this week.

There were many interesting
results gleaned from this poll
First of all, it served to show
that Shirreff Hall is not solidly
behind their girl candidate, for
Henry Reardon polled 4 of the
Hall votes to Shirley Kirkpatrick’s 7 when the count was
finally taken. The poll also
served to emphasize the old
“As the Med. School
goes, so does Dalhousie’. The
Meds voted solidly for Fred
Barton, and strongly supported Henry Reardon and Ralph
Plummer. Just how true the

maxim,

 

 

 

Here is the result of the poll: |
President of the Council: Fred_|

Barton 27; Doug McKeen 16; Shir-|
reff Hall: Barton 7, Mek oc 23
Medical: Barton 9, McKeen 0; Law:

 

 

(Continued on page four)

Jack Charman, Science ’41; Bob |. yeP ee ly 22

Maitland, Arts ’°41.

 

GLEE CLUB POSITIONS
| Vice-President:

| Freda Cahan, Arts ’39; Penny
| Patchell, Science ’42.
Business Manager:

Jack Reynolds, Commerce; Inez

 

Smith, Science, ’42.

| Munro Day
Show

Does Aunt Nellie think you should
be on the stage? Do your relatives
beg to play the piano?
laugh at your funny faces? Are you
Then Glee Club wants
you for its Munro Day show. Try| out will be held on stage at 2:30
There
opening for talents of all sorts, from

a cut-up?

| Saturday afternoon. is an

playing a musical saw or singing a|

ballad
adagio dancing and imitations of
| Charlie McCarthy.

love to an exhibition of

;
i

Do friends| the students on these tours.

 

|listed in the itinerary.

N. F.C. U. S. Announces.

European Tours

 

England and Countries on the Continent to Be Visited By Students.

Two student tours to Europe for
this coming summer have been announced by John H. McDonald,
President of the National Federa-|
tion of University Students. The|
N.F.C.U.S. is sponsoring these trips
in co-operation with the University
Travel Club of Toronto. This is the
first step in the inauguration of the}
Federation’s Travel Service, announced a week ago.

England, France, Germany, Holland and Italy are to be visited by
The
first is to leave Quebec on the 24th
of June, returning on August 10th.
The second party will leave Canada
on the 8th of July and will join
forces with the preceding one at In- |
terlaken, Switzerland. From there!
they will travel together for the remainder of the trip.

Motor drives and excursions are
The plans

 

TOURS—

(Continued on page four)

| preparations for the party.

| tine influence thrown in.

| ideal

| bejewelled tiaras”’.

| be orchids.

  
   

MARCH 38, 1939

Plays Viola

Joan Blackw ood

Atwood For

Prom Queen

Excitement runs high as the date
for the choosing of the Queen of the
Junior Prom draws near. The decision, shrouded in mystery, will not
be released until the dance tonight |
is well under way. College wiseacres, however, have narrowed the |
field of choice to Roy “Dunker” Atwood as the surest bet for Queen,

and state with firmness that Bob |

Gazette

BY THE SEA”

No. 19

“TWELFTH NIGHT” WEDNESDAY
“COUNCIL ELECTIONS TUESDAY Ninte: To Make Stage Debut

Joy Redden to be at Hammond Organ

Original stage sets, magnificent costuming, rich music, and

,| dramatic scenes will contribute to making history in the Glee
|| Club world when Twelfth Night is presented in the Dalhousie

Gymnasium next Wednesday evening at 8:15. In another re| spect history will be made when the decree of Council: ‘No
dancing following Twelfth Night’ goes into effect. Nevertheless, a large audience is expected, both of students and Dalhousie Alumni.

Rehearsals, now in their final stages, give indication that
the work of Director Joe Connolly has been well interpreted by
a talented cast. Connolly as a director is well known in Glee
Club productions. The ambitious undertaking has occupied
the attentions of nearly thirty persons for the past six weeks.

 

 

Dalnousie
St. Francis Xavier

In Debate Draw

“Resolved that the Canadian gov'ernment should sanction inclusion of
| Canadian names in His Majesty’s
| honours list” was the subject in a
| debate which resulted in a draw
'when a Dalhousie team composed of
Harry Housser and George Piercey
met Frank MaclIsaae and Brian Savage of St. Francis Xavier. The debate was held at Immaculate Auditorium, Antigonish, on Tuesday af|ternoon. The judges were Judge Al‘lan MacDonald, R. R. Griffin, K.C.,

} acta J. D. MacIntyre. One vote was
| east for each team, while the third
judge supported a draw.

The chairman was the Rt. Rev. H.

 

 

Maitland and Claude Leighton are | | P. MacPherson, President Emeritus

assured of their election as attendants to the Queen.

We found Dunker yesterday in his
Gym store, busying himself with
When
we asked him how he felt about his
chances of being chosen queen, a
little smile hovered around his lips
'and he spoke as if he were possess|ed of some secret knowledge. “How
|else would you vote?” retorted

,

Dunker rhetorically. “Naturally I|
| feel rather sure of the election, although I understand that certain |

| groups on the campus are conduct- |
jing a whispering campaign
'me.” Dunker described his dress to |
us as being “a lovely creation of the |
| sheerest voile, modelled along early |
| Roman lines, with a touch of Byzan- |
I think it
shows off my figure to perfection”.

| And indeed the dress did seem love|ly as Dunker sat there, stitching a

neat little hem around the edge.
Dunker added that he felt only too
pieased that Bob Maitland and
Claude Leighton so favorably considered as his attendants, and added |
that there were no two boys he|
would rather have.

Bob and Claude were rather shyer
than Dunker, when interviewed. They

didn’t exhibit the same savoir faire |

that marks Dunker off as being the

choice for the Prom Queen.

| But then, a certain touch of shyness |

and maidenly modesty become the
candidates for the position of attendants to the Queen. They said_
that they planned to dress the same
for the ball, in “white pannelled
satin dresses, with long trains and
Claude said that
he hoped that the fraternity

would send them

corsages, and

 

| rugby,
| according to a poll taken by

eed of fe

|4 were indifferent to the proposition.

For A\rts and Sci.

boys

of St. Francis Xavier University.

 

Students Favor
Paid Coach

The majority of students are in
favor of the plan whereby the University would employ a coach for
hockey, basketball, and track,
the
| Gazette this week. The above question was asked of 29 students who
visited Roy’s Emporium this week.
Of these 29, 23 responded in favor
proposition; 2 replied emphatically “No”, and the remaining

 

 

Officers Elected

 

| Donald MacKeigan, 2nd year

Arts student, was elected next
| year’ “ president of the Arts
| and Science Society to succeed
Douglas MacKeen, whose not'able contribution was that he
headed the executive which
drew up a constitution.

To succeed Irene Pentz in|
the vice- presidential chair is|
Inez Smith of Class ’42. The |
third member of the executiv e |
is another freshette, Suzanne|
Ramsey, who takes the o fice |
of Jacquie Cahan.

The meeting held on Tuesday was
attended by well over sixty Axia
and Science students who received

with enthusiasm Doug MacKeen’s |
mysterious suggestion that the pres-|

ent executive would have “some
Claude added that he’d like them to’ thing nice” to announce in the next

have an orchid,” he said wistfully.

“IT should dearly like to! few weeks.

Would this be the long
| heralded Arts and Science Dance?

Wa

HISELER’S SETS

Not a small part of the success
of the play will be due to the musical background and the Glee Club
has been fortunate to
services of Joy Redden, well known
organist of the air. On a Hammond
electric organ, provided by the WilMrs. Redden
will play the popular Shakespearian

lis Piano Company,

incidental music, “Who is Sylvia?”,
“Hark, Hark, the Lark”, “Henry
VIII Dances”, “Part I Overturs to

secure the

the Midsummer Night’s Dream” and 
Ariel’s song in “The Tempest”. She

will also aecompany. Lloyd. Dalton.

who, cast as Feste, will sing “O Mistress Mine’, “Come Away Death”,
“When that I was and a tiny little
lad”.

Gordon Hiseler is in charge of the
stage crew which under his direction will provide settings to represent among others the Duke of Illyria’s palace, Olivia’s house and garden, and the sea coast near Spalatro. The cast is:

PRAINOHO = 20 ie: ie case Gordon Kinley
Sir Toby Belch.........Bill Stevens
Sir Andrew Aguecheek..Bill Harvey
RPM Dia tide Scat ea.) Ruth MacQuarrie
MERESE sera aie Gowers Joan Blackwood
Maria ..............Mary Hayman
pake (reine 2 2 os George Little
RIMOWOM SE hw bing acre. Lloyd Dalton

Bree ee a de ary Walter Murphy
WRUORUION oc os ksh wc Irene Pentz
BMUDTAG bois oa oss Carleton Stanley
Frian { os

Sea Captain) °*°°°°* Alfred Poirier
Valentine: ..:..6.... Ken Archibald
Ee ne doce as, iets. ¢ Charles Roberts
SPEIOOPS oc gk cies wien Bob Swansburg

and Henry Reardon
RR en ete Marjorie Wood

and Edna Menger
Sailors—Glynn Firth, Whitney Dalrymple, and Bernard Graham.

Election Returns

 

The clans will gather in Roy’s

store election night to hear the re
jturns flashed through by special
site from the polling booths. The

prediction of close voting, especially
for the vice-presidency of the Council, made by the Gazette poll, indicates that the atmosphere will be
tense, smoky, and polluted with the
muttered oaths and imprecations of
| the poor defeated.

tictoaiee h  Se F

The Gazette extends its sincere
sympathy to Major John S. Roper,
President of Dalhousie
on the of the
passing father,
Roper.

Alumni,
sudden
Henry

occasion

of his

rn a rr re ee

}

= ra ee

 

 
   

ni

 

rr
1‘. —

= eS

 

f
be

 

 

he a Fi

eT he ck ily oa
i; io

assumed that they represent

 

   

in any column of The Gazette are those of the author; it cannot be
the opinion of the student body.

    

Editor: BERNARD GRAHAM

ei el) we «ete eae

News Editor: WALTER MURPHY eh aot a’ UBLBLOS
Asst. News Editor: BARBARA MURRAY - -  H-5152
Sports Editor: DOUGLAS LYALL - - - -  B-2607
Business Manager: SIDNEY A. GILLIES - -_ B-5487
Exchange Editor: JOAN BLACKWOOD - « B-9746

MEND YOUR SPEECH
(Contributed)

The English language has been compared to a tree, a

‘owing thing which, as it expands, casts off the old and puts
forth the cow, The discoveries of science, the extension of
commerce, and the progress of thought all have brought a
perpetual increase of words into the English language.

At the risk of appearing pedantic we venture to say that
many college students in spite of their exposure to the best of
the English language and its newest developments are slow in
making use of it. “Mind your speech, lest it may mar your
fortune”, Shakespeare said, and it is all too true that the spoken
and written speech of many presumably educated people is a
decided handicap. The vacuous Co-ed will probably not get the
responsible position to which she believes a Bachelor of Arts
degree entitles if her vocabularly does not rise above: I simply
adore that dress; it’s really awfully nice; the others a nice little
number but I’m not so stuck on it. The man of business
instincts will be equally unfortunate in the commercial world
and a poor advertisement for his Alma Mater if he relies on
such phrases as: Well I mean; now I’m tellin’ ya; it ain’t no
hell; I’ve got to be sure; I beat him to it; that sounds good to

me. How many college students realize that there is a g in
“strength” and “length” but no h at the end of “height”?
And if you believe that none of these errors are yours beware
of bragging about your “pronounciation”.

 

ELECTIONS

The coming elections make one think about the qualifica‘tions of those who may be elected. While a good organization
of executive positions is important for the proper conduct of
student business, its importance is secondary to that of the
people who hold these positions. Competent people can do
wonders with a poor organization, while a good organization
helps the incompetent but little. ;

Any position exists as an instrument for serving the student body. If the organization or the incompetence of an office
holder is such that the position does not serve the student
body, then it should be abolished, or at least changed. In serving the student body in any position it is natural and likely
that a student will profit because of his interest in the work
and the experience and contacts it offers.

Although we realize that the voting of a goodly number
will be determined by personal and sectional interests and

' prejudices, we hope there will also be a goodly number who will
pl consider the ability of the candidates and the likelihood of
ss their serving the student body, rather than exploiting it and

‘using their position for personal ends.

Certainly a sense of personal responsibility, which on the
part of the voter expresses itself in a sincere, objective vote,
and on the part of the elected candidates involves the continuous yet patient application of their best thought and talent in
the interests of the student body—this sense of responsibility
is the true basis and real backbone of college spirit.

What Next in Spain?

After the previous article the last,
‘thing we had in mind for the next
one was a continuation of the story
of Spain. The occasion which in‘spired us was the reading of an
article in “The Foreign Observer”
hinting at an agreement of Great
Britain, France, and the Vatican, to
control Mr. Franco’s foreign policy.
Not that we believe the report. Mr.
Franco may not want to have his
policy directed in this way, and his
hands are not altogether free in any
ease. And, however much Great
Britain and France may want such
an agreement, it is very doubtful if
Cardinal Pacelli can commit the
Vatican to anything important at
this particular moment. The article
does remind us, however, that the
fate of Spain is still not decided.
The Civil War is merely the first
phase of a struggle which may go
on for some time.

The present conflict has been
marked by great diversities of opinion as to the nature and motives of
each side. A majority of Canadians
and Americans regard the Government as a model of Democracy—
even bourgeois democracy—fighting
the battles of the average man.
The U.S.S.R. supports it as a bulwark against Fascism, and for this
reason it is branded as Communistic. The truth is somewhere between the two. The Spanish Loyalists, or “Reds”, if you prefer, are
in essence workers, stirred by a
hatred of their former oppressors,
caring little for particular economic
theories but striking out at those
who have crushed them and striving
to build an order in which the proJetariat will count. They have made

 

mistakes — sometimes struck out in
the wrong direction—but they have
derived their theories and their actions from the conditions of Spanish workers, and not from Soviet
propaganda, however influential that
may have been.

As to the nature of the government which Franco intends to set
up, there is even less agreement.
Even trained observers are at a loss
to know what the Spanish rebellion
signifies. It is certainly nationalistic, in the sense of being opposed to
internationalism and federalism. A
decree by which Franco has_ suppressed the use of the Catalan language in legal documents was considered by the. New York Times
worthy of no more than a cryptic
notice on an inner page, but it helps
to explain the support given to the
Loyalists by Basques and Catalans,
two semi-national groups which do
not speak Castilian Spanish.

Does Franco intend to set up a
Fascist state? There seems to be
little probability that the conspirators of 1936 wanted to make Spain
a satellite of the European dictators, but it did not take Mussolini
ten days to land troops in Spain.
Since that time Italian and German
support of the rebels has been the
most widely discussed feature of
the war. But there is little evidence
to establish Franco himself as a
Fascist. His methods have been
described as brutal and Hitleristic,
but they are those of any man who
\is anxious for a chance to dominate
and has not many scruples as_ to
how he will obtain it. Fascism, after all, is something of a political
philosophy, and is not merely a

—— ae

a

a ome a

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Obiter

Whenever you give an inch at
least a mile is taken. When you let
(meaning to allow) the tenderer sex
publish an issue of the Gazette they
cannot refrain from proclaiming
their proclaiming their equality from
the figurative house tops of the
editorial columns. Personally I
wouldn’t write or say a word against
the dear things, because it is dangerous work, and sometimes fatal in its
results. I sometimes wonder if none
of the males ever thought of putting
out the Gazette on newsprint. On the
other, maybe the lesses known but
more numerous campus critics would
raise the objection that they are not
getting their money’s worth (or
back, or something.) Throughout
the paper were to be seen marks of
a definitely superior product. (I) ecognition in the Dalhousie comdon’t mean the advertisements, if| monwealth of nations. The Medical
that last statement is ambiguous.) School, like the Law School, has a
But we were constantly reminded! stable society, quite able to stand on
that men and women are equal. 'its own feet most of the time. Rare

I don’t mind letting it be said that | exceptions like the Med or Law Ball
women are even superior to men. | to the contrary notwithstanding.)
Saying it doesn’t make it true. And) But the Arts and Science Society reif it isn’t true, such a crucial question will soon be answered. In fact,
res ipsa loquitur. (1 refuse to trans- | J can think of to kick, the easiest
late that one.) (Which reminds me/and most pleasant is to elect the
of the familiar problem: should a! Studley candidate as President.
gentleman remove his hat in an| Take a lesson from the women. Just
elevator, if there are ladies aboard? | watch them put in their favorite.

If you say yes, then women can’t| Why, half the male population will

I am in complete agreement with the
man who said that imitation is the
sincerest form of flattery.)

The Ayes...

The big question on the campus
today is not, however, whether men
and women are equal. True, the
question is one of equal political and
social importance. Will Studley take
advantage of its opportunity this
year to elect a Studley representative as President of the Council?
We don’t have to worry about the
Vice-President. The co-eds are on
the warpath for her. But we do
have to think for the Studley people,
who, unlike the Meds, have so much
work to do they haven’t time to
think of voting for their own candidate. Sometimes I think that the
Arts and Science Society, which you
will remember exists on the Studley
campus, could do with a little added
prestige in order to give it some

 

quires what is vulgarly known as a
kick in the pants. Of all the ways

Y.M.C. A. BLDG.

   

be equal, because you don’t remove
your hat for gentlemen. If no, then
why do ladies insist that it should be
done?) Should it be necessary to debate such obvious questions as those
recently answered so truthfully by
the Frosh? Of course the Frosh won,
how could they lose with the moral
backing of all the women on the
campus, all (?) of them looking for
salaried positions as wives in the

vote without a word being said. I
don’t want to stint the girl, probably
more than that will yield. One can
say with a certain amount of confidence that the Commerce Society
would vote for a Commerce Student,
and the Law Society would vote for
a Law student, so why not the Arts
and Science Society vote for all the
available Arts and Science students?

| However, if Studley doesn’t care,

home. (May I take this opportunity | who does?

to remark with true male vanity that

J. Bo. Mi.

 

synonym for anything unpleasant or
repressive in government.

Is Franco, then, a clerical? The
church has generally supported him
on this assumption, but it is not at
all certain. True, his occupation of
Barcelona was followed by the celebration of mass, but for a leader
a great part of whose suport comes
from the church and the backbone
of whose army is composed of pious
Navarrese Catholics, it would hardly have been politic to do otherwise.
Franco himself is not famed as a
pious man, and support of the
church can hardly go hand in hand
with adherence to Herr Hitler’s
racial policy.

Is Franco a monarchist? The article to which we have referred suggests that Britain, France, and the
Vatican will offer the Spanish
throne to Don Juan, only non-haemophiliac son of ex-King Alfonso.
Perhaps they will be able to force
the monarchy back upon Franco,
but it may safely be said that that
gentleman does not himself relish
the idea. He is for rule by Franco
first, last, and always.

When we come to the field of
foreign policy, we can be certain of
even less. Up to the _ present
Franco’s hands have been more or

 

less tied by the warning of Premier
Mussolini that Italian troops will
not be withdrawn until the war is
over, and Franco is not very sure
that they will go even then. But
Senor Franco has more bargaining
power with other nations, and his
order forbidding British planes from
flying over Spain can only be interpreted as’a hint to the British government that his support is worth
obtaining. Franco’s foreign policy
will be determined by his own interests and the pressure he can exert
on behalf of them. But this statement can be made, by and large,
about the policy of any other nation
and it leaves unanswered the fundamental question whether Franco
will continue to lean for support on
the Berlin-Rome axis or will seek
assistance elsewhere.

The government, if such it may
be termed, of the Nationalist (or
rebel) part of Spain, can hardly be
called Fascist or clerical on monarchial. It may develop into any one
of those things. In the meantime,
all that can be said is that Franco

has set up an army dictatorship,
which may become permanent, as
has been the case in Poland since
the war, or which may. give way
before something else. What the
Civil War has decided — assuming
that the war has been decided — is
that Spain will be ruled for a few
years more, at least, by the upper
classes and that the proletariat has
been beaten. Details of home and
foreign policy are yet to be worked
out. What they will be I do not
know. Nor, probably, does Senor
Franco.

J. W. G.

Drang Nach Osten

Some centuries ago the Holy
Roman Emperor established a German colony in the midst of the
Slave country at Vienna, and called
it the “Ostmark”, or eastern outpost. Since that time a tradition of
German expansion to the east has

 

grown up. Electors of Brandenburg ||

settled Dutchmen and Scots in
Prussia which in time became another German outpost against the
Slavic and at that time barbarous
east. Herr Hitler, on assuming
power, again took up the old refrain, and made everyone rather uneasy by remarking that he could do
a great deal with the coalfields of
the Ukraine and the minerals of the
Urals. The world was
that Herr Hitler’s motives were the
purest and most peaceful, but the
Soviet government persisted in regarding the statement as a threat.

German policy since that date can
quite easily be interpreted as directed towards this same “Drang
nach Osten”, Hitler was quick to
recognize the French conquest of
Alsace-Lorraine, and eventually became reconciled to the frontier on
the Brenner pass, which is German
but not especially valuable. Every
once in a while he demands the return of German’s colonies, but the
demand seems to be more in the
nature of a bargaining card than
a real desire. On the other hand,
German policy in the east has not
been passive. The Nazi party of
Danzig was encouraged to demand
the return of that unfortunate city

to Germany, until the need for
DRANG NACH OSTEN—
(Continued 1 page 3)

   
   

reassured | |

March 3, 1939

 

 

“How about—‘Let’s have another cigarette’ ?”’
“O Kay—if it’s a Sweet Cap,”

SWEET CAPORAL CIGARETTES

“The purest form in which tobacco can be smoked.”

THOMAS WALLACE
SONS and DAUGHTERS
SIGHT SPECIALISTS

Eyes Tested — Glasses Made
“Tf You Want to See Well See Wallace’

HALIFAX

 

 

Black Onyx
and Silver

The Dalhousie Ring in
black onyx and silver is
arresting—durable, too,
and moderate in price.

You are invited to inspect the
beautiful new

New STUDIO MODEL
UPRIGHT PIANOS.

We are sure you will like these
lovely new designs.

Yin
456-460 BARRINGTON ST.

HALIFAX, N. S.

A Complete Musical Service

 

 

 

 

     
 
     
 

HENRY BIRKS AND
SONS LIMITED

Diamond Merchants
Halifax, N. S.

 

 

 

 

The National Fish Company, Limited

FRESH FISH SPECIALISTS
NOVA SCOTIA

 

HALIFAX

News of The Home

News of The World
*

NEWS WHEN IT IS NEWS
FOR EVERY MEMBER OF THE FAMILY

read

THE HALIFAX DAILY STAR

 

 
    
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
    
   
   
  
 
 
   
 
 
   
  
   
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
 
   
  
   
 
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
    
 
   
  
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
 
 
   
  
   
   
  
  
  
   
 
    
 
 
  
 
  

; 7 1 1e Editor: |
__-Well, our older Friend seemed to

©

eri

_ talk to the boys. The boys, however,
seem to resent this according to
- Campus opinion, and I know of one
indignant male who denounced the
sentiments expressed as being old
fashioned, adding that he was goodmannered and therefore the letter
did not apply to himself. Granted
r. everyone has a certain amount of
i ego, thick skin, pride and vanity—
! even so the Dalhousie boy cannot

think that he is so perfect that the
recent columns don’t literally shout
“This means you!” As do the so
much publicised Tooth Paste and
Lux Ads in our magazines. Even
your best friend won’t tell you.
Well, here all the best friends and
well wishers of the male and female
sex are trying to prod them into the
realization that all is not gold that
glitters, and that the attitude of
male toward female and vice-versa
on the campus is not as it should
be. If it were, there would be no
necessity for the hectic letter writing
and editorial spreading of the past
several weeks. You’ve asked for it
so here you are.

In the first place the whole situation is this. The males have the
vast conceit to think they are the
Lords of Creation and can dictate
to the female populace and in so
doing set the pace for the social
activities — by social activities I
mean the whole framework of meeting and mingling of the sexes (sorry
to harp on the word) outside of
classes—and the females have the
wisdom to sit down and “accept” this
leadership, and by smooth diplomacy
gain their own ends. The trouble
lying back of all this is that the
boys don’t seem to have any true
respect for the girls, and the girls
certainly haven’t any for the boys.
a Why? To the boys a girl is a floosie
hie that he trots from dance to dance.
---—s The better looking and better dress__ed she is goes without saying, and
natu lly every girl strives after the
improvement of the species. But apei parently the boys don’t bother about

_ dividual, but as a necessity which he
can discard or acquire according to
the mood and the occasion. As these
moods vary so he varies his choice,
and often leaves the choosing to the
last minute. Girls don’t want to be
asked months or even weeks ahead
to dances, etc., but they do appreciate being called before 7.30 of a
Saturday evening. Moreover, they
like definite date. Time and female
wait for no man — that is, indefinitely. Another point too; do the
boys ever consider this from the
girl’s point of view, that if a girl is
asked to a dance around 9 o’clock
she knows she is just a last resort
and feels that the boy has tried
several others before her? Of course
if a girl is fool enough to go at
that late date well and good, but
the mere fact of being asked then
is rather (to say the least) damaging to a girls’ self-respect even if
she does refuse. The idea we advocate is earlier asking and better
arrangement of plans so that everyone is happy.

Moreover, do the boys ever realize
how they embarrass a girl? If a
girl feels she cannot command
enough energy on the part of a boy
to open a door, to help her off with
her coat, or to pull out a chair for
her to sit down, then he must be
a pretty poor specimen, and no girl
likes to think that of her friends.
Why is it, too, that the girls know
all these little refinements—hat lifting, calling on time for a date, and
standing up when an older person
comes into the room and so forth,
when to all outward appearances the
males are blind to them. We hope
it is not because they are lacking in
| home training and just don’t know,
_ or that they are just too lazy and
_ thoughtless to bother, or that the
4 <i girls are not worth the extra effort.
5 _ Just wherein the fault lies is rather
difficult to say, nevertheless you may
not believe it, but a girl judges a
- _boy’s character a great deal on these
: outward manifestations of good
a ago when she gave her “friendly”.

Campus Correspondence

_ breeding and thoughtfulness, and if prompted by an inward grace or are

he doesn’t measure up to her stand
why oh why don’t they?! Waiters
and doormen are paid to be polite;
surely the girls shouldn’t have to
hand out tips every time something
courteous is done for them.

Girls no matter what they say to
the contrary like to be feminine, and
not hard-hitting amazons, but it’s
very hard to struggle helplessly with
a coat in a show for five minutes
without any assistance, or to stand
patiently in front of a door until the
escort has the mighty brain child
that he has to push and not cry
“open Sesame” for the miracle to
happen. (Don’t misunderstand me
I am not talking about my own escorts) our friend “Yours Truly,
just me” must be going around with
the wrong girl as far as we can see
if he has met with all these rebuffs
to his heroic efforts to play the
suave young-man-about-town. He
should widen his range of acquaintances. ‘‘Feminine and dependent’
or “ultra-modern and self-sufficient”
—my hat! Every girl is of the
feminine gender—or maybe he didn’t
get that far—and as far as being
dependent she isn’t given much
chance. Ultra-modern and self-sufficient is tripe, too, since the girls on
the campus are not ultra-modern in
either their views or their demands,
but merely the products of their environments which perforce makes
them self-sufficient. (Boys please
note this.) It is up to the boys to
do something—the girls made up
their minds long ago when they were
told that all men are children and
have to be led the way they should
go. We don’t want to be coddled

but we do like consideration and at- |
tention. We’re ail potential Florence |
lamps of.
light; but has it any effect—well ego

Nightingales with our

always has been very heavy to penetrate at the best of time. A crying
need at Dalhousie is a course in
social Intercourse, Elementary classes to the more advanced studies.

Girls are not gold diggers as the
men think. Strange as it may seem
they are wil.ing to sit at home by a
fire with the boy friend and talk—
not about themselves either, — but
talk for the sake of conversation and
friendship;— maybe I am old fashioned—so what?
fire, and food make a very pleasant
picture. Of course if the B. F. comes
around with a box (even bag) of
chocolates or some such delicate
mark of attention all the merrier.

. May we add that all the little things

some boys will do for girls are
highly appreciated — occasional
chocolates, telephone calls, lending or
giving of books and magazines and
flowers. A girl then knows that a
boy thinks of her sometimes as more

than a fluffy bit of femninity, as a

friend, and wants her to enjoy the
same things he does himself. When
a boy will do this he rises rungs in
a girl’s estimation and no matter
what any one says to the contrary
the age of chivalry is still in flower
for the favoured few if not the
majority. Above all else it’s the
little things that count; and those
little things determine a positive or
-hegative character. Girls don’t want

| to be trotted about all the time and|

| hever say more than is necessary to
_the escort on the dance floor or in
the movie. They want to have their
“men friends the same as their girl
friends—friends they can trust, respect, and rely upon, not just another date who pays for the entertainment, and who in return expects
as many kisses in the taxi as he can
secure with a minimum of dignity!
| We like Romance with a Capital R

in its place but not as cash payment

or a charge account for favours received.

!

Now we’ve had our say and set
forth our objections and our ideas
and in summing up we might add a
little advice—we don’t pretend to be
Dorothy Dix—that will be of benefit
to both boys and girls for their
mutual respect and liking. “A truly
kind and considerate person is seldom guilty of gross rudeness, but
thoughtless action and mannerisms
reveal our true character and indicate whether our manners are

A boy, a girl, a|

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

®

the veneer of a selfish and insensi
have started something three weeks’ ards she secretly despises him. And/| tive personality.” We want to put

you on a pedestal as much as you
want to let us up on one, so Stop,
Look, and Listen but above all, Act!

FLOOSIE.

THERE IS NO DAL SPIRIT

To the Editor:

The perennial question at Dalhousie, the question that is continu“ally asked because it is never answered, is, “What is wrong with
| Dalhousie?” It is not that nobody
_tries to answer it: one year there
is one reply given; another year,
_another. Last year, you remember,
the Gazette was presumably more
| patriotic than it is now; then it extolled the benefits of a university institution known as a Student Union
Building, instead of celebrating the
_birthday of Romain Rolland. I trust,
however, that the number of those
'who think that by this change the
Gazette has become less patriotic,
less Dalhousian, is small.

A Student Union Building would
undoubtedly solve many campus
problems, but it would not neces‘sarily raise the standard of uni| versity life; in other words, the
| fundamental wrongs at Dalhousie
are very little connected with a
lack of facilities.

| No Dalhousian can argue that the
“most prominent student societies
here are based on a common interest in things cultural, (and by cultural I do not mean the superficiality of which so many university stu‘dents are accused).

Certainly there must be some organizations that exist for purely
business purposes, and that will provide a framework for the more vital
activities of student life. These organizations are not true university
organizations; they could exist almost anywhere. The benefits they
hold even for those most active in
them are doubtful indeed; these
people, it is true, learn to talk easily in public, but often irresponsibly
and on subjects not requiring much
deep reflection.

There are so few societies on this
campus that are based upon a common interest in the things for which
the University exists, that any observer might easily despair of the
future of education in this province.
The standards of culture in Nova
Scotia can only continue to decline,
if students leaving Dalhousie know
so little of art in general and music
in particular, so that for them music
is still divided into two classes—
“popular” and “classical” — terms
which can mean nothing even to
those who use them.

| Surely a musical Society could be
formed here (not under the control
| of the Glee Club and thus forced to
devote its energies to a tenth-rate
‘musical comedy), but to develop an
|understanding and a love of music,
| by means of gramophone records,
| lectures, and performances by vari
|Ous musicians of the city, whom |
know to be willing to co-operate.
In regard to other branches of

iart, I should liké to know why the

 

| Carnegie collection, used by the class

-n Fine Arts, is available only to
/members of that class. [ suspect
that if the student body were interested, more use could be made of
these things. The University has
come to a sad state of affairs when
a class has to be given in Fine Arts.

M.

 

| Eyes Front!

Passenger: “What are you slowing up for?”

Driver: “Thought I heard the lady
say ‘Stop’, sir.”

Passenger: “She wasn’t speaking
to you. Drive on.”—McGill Daily.

 

How fat she are
She used to wasn’t
The reason is

She daily .doesn’t.

—Los Angeles Collegian.

|

 

lf |\WereaDictator' Book of Bunk

 

I’d shower with garlands of orchids and please with plenty of
pearls the little doll who did this
column for me in last week’s Co-ed
edition of the Gazette. The fact that
the nice things she said about this
pillar were exaggerated alters not
the other fact that they were sweet
music to read. I have heard of reproductions of paintings that were
considered better than the original
—this was true of her column last
week. Perhaps we could get together
some afternoon—just we two—you
know,:sit around, sip tea, and spend
the entire P.M. session doing nothing
better than squatting there admiring
each other.

I’d tell the girls who banded together last week to put out the
Co-eddie edition of this paper that
they did an exemplary job of it all.
Only one criticism passes through
this calloused cranium concerning
the issue and that is because two of
the six pages of the journal were
devoted solely to sports coverage—
all of which perhaps made the paper
read more like a Spalding Brothers

Page Three

 

DRANG NACH OSTEN—
(Continued from page two)

Polish aid dictated a more peaceful
policy. This consideration did not
apply in the case of Memel, and
Hitler has not ceased to exert pressure on Lithuania, a country with
few friends and no allies. Then in
March, 1938, came the fateful occupation of Austria, significantly renamed the “Ostmark”, giving closer
access to southeastern Europe.

In September the Peace of Munich
added to Germany a considerable
slice of Czechoslovakia and changed
the name of that country to CzechoSlovakia, the hyphen marking presumably the new German road
through the centre of the country.
Further, as everyone knows, the
Peace opened to German influence
the little province in the east known
at various times as Carpatho-Ruthenia and Carpatho-Russia and now
renamed Carpatho-Ukraine, a district snatched with the greatest difficulty from Hungary and Poland.

Ca

 

1. And so it has come to pass
that once agayn the Greet Gaz has
been cre-a-ted by the Shees of the
Lande of Dal. And truly koude the
result of the wommen’s hande be
seen. And though the Kronicler
agreeth notte with alle that was
seyde in the Sixth Chapter of thys
Book, he woude but pass on that the
Ma-jorr-i-ty seyde the Co-ed Edition
to be goode.

2. And the Kronicler flies quickly
to the defence of of the Critic of the
Glee Kloob. And he woude remynde
the Shee who wrote the Book laste
weeke that a critic is neither a
wryter nor an ed-i-tor, but a Critic.
He telleth what he sees—and what
he thynks. And as thys Critic of
the Glee Kloob is well qualyfyed to
criticize, he shoude not be criticized
by a Mere Shee who laste weeke usurped thys space and kalled hir-self
a Kronicler — and notte a SheeKronicler or a Kronicler-ass. The latest phase of the “Drang

3. And the Kronicler noteth wyth nach Osten” has been, of course,
surprise that a womman has been | Herr Hitler’s plan for the reuniting
no-myn-ated for the poste of Vyce- lof the whole Ukraine under German
Prexy of the Council of Wysemen, | fluence. This implied a Germano
catalogue and less like a co-ed| And Many deploreth thys. And the | Polish attack on Russia, with each

confab on paper.

I'd phone up the Prexy some
morning at four o’clock. When he
answered, I’d ask him what time it
was. I do hope that he’d reply
that it was four o’clock in the morning because then I’d ask him what
the hell he was doing up at that
hour.

I'd tell the student body here to
please tell their representatives to
bow to precedent (and no crack
about which precedent!!). The fact
remains that each time in recent
years a popularity contest or
Campus Queen query has been attempted, it has always ended as a
fiasco. Such is the case with the
one run in conjunction with the
Junior Prom.

To show you how those things
work all I need say is that last time
I had a report on it, Roy Atwood
was leading Red Payne for Queen
of the Maypole by sixty-four votes.
But then again, maybe I’m just
crabbing because I won’t be elected
—I’m such a poor sport.

I’d appropriate money for a chair |

at Dalhousie to teach students without M.A.’s how to read the editorials
in the Gazette and then how to
understand them. WBither that, or
with each. edition of the Gazette the
student would be presented with a
nice, new, and very modern dictionary. Such editorials as the one over
on the heavy-thinking page two
weeks ago concerning the status of
the modern college girl was really
tough reading. I consider it both
unwise and inappropriate to record
too much here as regards the editorial itself, except perhaps to say
one thing. Every man to his own
licking, as the fellow said when he

kissed the cow, but while many | thys Lande, the Studes re-fuse to
people feel that it is interesting to|tak the Contest ser-i-ous-ly.
read what Havelock Ellis, Briffault,| the Kronicler believeth it will be a
John Macmurray, and other head- Farce. And he woude remynde the
feelers write about women it is so|Juniors that Studes of the Lande of
much more fun to go out and dis-| Dal tak notte easily to Col-leg-yate |

cover all about them yourself. It’s
a sort of “date, show, and eat” idea
as against “library, index file, and
stack reading”. As for the editorial
in question itself, I still feel that
Kipling was right when he passed
on to posterity his observation that
a “woman was only a woman, but
a cigar’s a damn good smoke” —
and have you seen any good shows
lately ?

I'd continue to ask the college
big-wigs to tack another two-dollars
on our college fees so the year book
stipend would not be so painful
when we have to pay it.
smackers on your bill in the Fall
hurts not at all, but at this time of
year it feels like tearing off your
left arm. If the other system is
workable at Acadia, Mount Allison
and other universities it is workable
here.

I'd emblazon on the pages of the
press of the nation the item noted
the other day in the Regina LeaderPost, wherein they reprint a piece
they saw in the Toronto Daily Star.
The Star comments that Rt. Hon.
R. B. Bennett, previous to sailing
from Halifax for England was kissed by six young Dalhousie co-eds.

 

Two more | print them-, ketch-on?”

Kronicler asked One who two years country reaping some of the benepassed assysted inne drawyng up the fits, especially Germany. It was a
Re-vysed Con-sti-tu-tion of the| Mice plan, but it hasn’t made much °
Bodee of Studes, whether a womman | Progress. In the first place, Gerwas meant to occ-u-py the poste of | many had still no common frontier
Vyce-Prexy of the Council and he| With Russia, nor had Czecho-Slospak thus: “It was understood that | V@kia- It was accordingly necessary
the Vice-Presidency of the Council to form an alliance with Poland or
should be occupied by a man. It was | Rumania or to fight one of them.
not so written, however. The posi-| 42d Romania is beginning to realtion has always been occupied by | ize that it has some half-million
man under the revised constitution,” | Ukranians, concentrated near Car4. And the tale of the poste of patho-Ukraine in the direct German

the Vyce-Prexy continueth. Anq/|line of march to Russia.
Many wondereth why the Nom-in-a-| King Carol quickly dissolved the
pro-Nazi Iron Guard and took a

tyng Comm-itt-ee of the Council altrip to London. Poland has realized

 

 

lowed Three Men and One Womman
the existence of its four million

to runne fore the poste.
believed that there was Ukranians for some time, but only
after Munich did Foreign Minister

the Hande of Fate in the
den-ted number of No-my Joseph Beck begin to take a less
pro-German stand.

For Two of the men are from the
Poland and Hungary were not

Same Facultee and Two from the

Same Fraternitee. And the wom.| Pleased by their failure to divide the
men’s Gaz of laste weeke tel] the | Carpathia area between’ them in
Studes that “ the women.are on the | September, but up to the present at
warpath.” For it appeareth that | least Hungary has not deserted the
they have juste discovered that} @Xis. At best, however, it-is merely
“they are eligible for nominations as | 4M irritant to Yugoslavia which will
President of the Council, Member at| tend to unite the Little Entente °
against Germany. It begins to ap
large, Vice-President .. . And the

Kronicler mourns. For it is indeed| pear that Herr Hitler will have to
a Sadde Daye for the Lande of Dal| fight more than Russia to obtain
the Ukraine.

when the lawful Po-si-shuns of the
Ma-jorr-i-ty are in danger of beyng| In September it appeared that Hitler was in command of all Europe.

u-surped by the Fe-male Mi-noor-i
In December the outlook was not

-tee. For Verily, the studes desireth
a Man for Leader and Near-Leader| much better. The present prospect
of the Mygthy Council, and notte ais not bright, but the scale does not
Mann-e-quyn. seem so sharply tipped. A pathetic

5. And agayn an in-syd-ious | sign of Herr Hitler’s nervousness is
habit of Another Lande had seeped|his recent protest against British
rearmament on account of the mis
into the Lande of Dal. For the
Juniors attempt to pro-mul-gate a | understanding it would cause. There
are a number of things the Cham
Pop-u-lar-i-ty Contest. And as has
happened tyme and tyme agayn in| berlain government will fight for:
Hitler cannot expect to ask for the

And | British Empire and receive it on a
silver platter.

For the moment, at least, Herr
Hitler is stumped. The way to the
|east is still blocked by two succesFaddes from the Greet Lande to the! sive States; the way to the west by
South. the not inconsiderable Frency army

And here endeth the | and British navy. Signor Mussolini
Chapter of the Fifth Book. continues to demand colonies in a
A , 'way which threatens to make Ger
Making love is like making apple many the junior partner in his depie—all that you need is crust and | signs—an unpleasant feature of the
a lot of apple-sauce. |axis which Herr Hitler had prob
—Auburn Plainsman. | ably never counted upon. But the
problem of Germany is not solved.
Which made the editor of the Star)One may expect to hear any day,
wonder whether or not Mr. Bennett | When food prices rocket, that a posailed on a smacker. I’d tell the! rom has taken place against the
Editor of the Star “Yacht to make | Jews or Catholics or Aryans or that
sure a-boat such things before you; Mr. Chamberlain has been asked to
give away the moon.

And Some
more than
un-pre-cen-a-shuns.

”

 

 

Seventh

 

 

 

I’d resign. J. W. G.

*« It has a delight
ful satisfying flavour—
this new mixture of
choice Virginia and
Burley tobaccos,
blended with Perique
and Latakia. Try it.

 

   
 
        
  

  

Oy The

PIPE TOBACCO [Ld

 
 

 

\
i

 

Election-
(Continued from page one)

Barton 4, McKeen 2; Commerce:
McKeen 2, Barton 1; Engineering:
Barton 3, McKeen 1; Arts and Science: McKeen 6, Barton 3.

For the vice-presidential chair,
Henry Reardon polled 17 votes,
Shirley Kirkpatrick 138, John Dickie
8. Shirreff Hall: Kirkpatrick 7,
Reardon 4, Dickie 1; Medical: Reardon 4, Kirkpatrick 1, Dickie 1;
Law: Dickie 3, Reardon 2; Commerce: Reardon 1, Kirkpatrick 1,
Dickie 1; Engineering: Dickie 2,
Reardon 1; Arts and Science: Readon 5, Kirkpatrick 4.

Butch Lawson polled 17 votes as
compared with Ralph Plummer’s 12
in the poll to determine who would
be the President of the D.A.A.C.
Medical: Plummer 7, Lawson 2;
Law: Plummer 3, Lawson 3, Commerce: Lawson 38; Engineering:
Lawson 4; Arts and Science: Lawson 5, Plummer 2.

The poll taken to determine the|
next Glee Club President was scattered among the various faculties
and societies and the result was:
Hiseler 17, Dalton 9.

So it looks as if the elections are
all decided before they come off.
We wonder?

A professor of Economics at
Rutgers University was in trouble
because of his own teachings. In |
his classes on the economics of
labour, he taught his students the
value of the union, and the importance of such slogans as
forces”, “Workers Unite” and “In
union there is strength”. The students, impressed, formed a union of
their own, and have approached the
professor with these four points:
optional exams, no classes after

 

“Join |

 

—$—$_$<$—$_—_ —_——————$——_— ne ee ce

Gris’ Sports

Practically all the girls’ sports at
Dal seem to be winding up for the
year, except basketball, which is
just in the middle of its busy season; and it gains the most general
interest.,

Last Saturday the first team was
supposed to have played a practice
game with Halifax Academy, but
since most of the Dal team didn’t
turn out for the game, H. C. A.
played the interclass teams instead.
In the game against the freshettes
H.C. A. came out the victors, but

 

they were defeated by the sopho-'

mores. The Sophs’ Junior-Senior
game in the interclass league is
scheduled for Saturday. Of course
we know it won’t come off because
of the students’ forum, but we still
have hopes that it will be played
some time.

The first team has still some more
intercollegiate games to play, but
the schedule has not yet been arranged. Also, this year they intend
to play an exhibition game with the
Edgehill girls, probably at Windsor.

Because of a flu epidemic at Mt.
A. the conference of the women’s
intercollegiate sport organization
was called off. It is possible that
the conference may not be held at
all this year; we consider this undesirable as the _ intercollegiate
league should be satisfactorily arranged,

 

Men who kiss and tell are bad
enough, but what is worse is men
who kiss and exaggerate.—The Manitoban.

It’s not what our girl knows that
bothers us. It’s how she learned it.
—McGill Daily.

dance week-ends, abolition of roll-|There’s the love of a beautiful maid

taking in class, and the returning
of all test papers within a week after
the tests. The students say that a
strike or boycott may be used to
bring the professor to terms.

 

 

Be Foot-Happy

Wear WALLACE’S Expertly Fitted
Shoes for Real Comfort, Longer
Service and Low Ultimate Cost.

Start now, dress up for Spring.

 

We are featuring Smart Shoes for
Men and Women... .$3.90 to $10.00

Wallace Bros. Ltd.

415 BARRINGTON STREET
(Green Lantern Building)

 

Specialists in Fitting |
|

 

 

There’s the love of a staunch, true
man,

There’s the love of a baby, that’s
unafraid;

These have been since time began.

But the most beautiful love of all,

Even greater than that of a mother

Is that infinite, tender, passionate
love

Of one dead drunk for another!

—Ubyssey.

 

Her hair reflects the sun’s bright
hue,
Her eyes are pearls of deepest blue,
Her white teeth flash like morning
due.
Too bad her husband’s six foot two.
—McGill Daily.

   

Visit Our Oyster Bar

Fresh Oysters, served just like
you want them at Boutilier’s
Oyster Bar. Open until 6 p.m.

BOUTILIER’S
BEDFORD ROW

 

  

WHEN YOU NEED:
DRUGS

  
  
 

 

 

@ Now Offered

In the familiar pouch or new
slide packages. A tastier, milder
cigarette made from much
better tobaccos. Try them.

CIGARETTES

 
  
 
 
  
   

MEDICIN

 

ES PRESCRIPTIONS

YOU GET BETTER SERVICE AND VALUE

Kinley’s Drug Stores

aoe,
3
<2,
ao coe
‘Mie;
ae
“2042,
<ieyl
ae

      

  

b
23 te;
Oe,
ab .
at }
aE

  

OW gE

~

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Interfaculty
Basketball

Arts & Science, 26; Engineers, 19

After eliminating Medicine last
week, Arts and Science advanced to
the finals of the Interfaculty basketball league by defeating Engineers
26 to 19.

This was one of the roughest
games all year and there were frequent outbursts of temper.
| In the first half the Engineers
played carefully and at half time
were ahead 12 to 4, but from the
start of the second period they were
completely outplayed and never al‘lowed to break free.

In this period the brilliant long
shots of Harry Grant accounted for
twelve points to overcome the lead
of the Engineers.

Outstanding for Arts & Science
were Grant and Fraser, and for Engineers James and MacAlden.

Arts & Science: Mercer 2, Grant
12, Burchell 5, Fraser 5, Tupper 2,
Smith, Whyte, Perlin.

Engineers: Vail 5, McAlden 10,
Walters 2, Purves 2 James, Reeves,
Brownhill.

Mount Allison, 32
Dalhousie, 20

The Tigers gave a much better
account of themselves on their own
floor against Mount Allison than

 

 

Acadia Takes
Double Header

Acadia Seconds, 36; Cubs, 28

Acadia seconds avenged their defeat at Studley by beating the Cubs
at Wolfville 36 to 28. The Cubs
were having an off night and most
of the points scored against them
were made by basket hanging. The
persistent play of Byron Hatfield
resulted in ten points, and Charman
scored nine.

Dal: Charman 9, Stewart 2, Lyall
2, Hutchins 4, Hutton, Hatfield 10,
Vail, Cameron, James 1.

Acadia: Barr 12, Rogers 18, Cameron 4, McMillan 2, Escoffery.

 

 

Acadia, 36; Tigers, 18

The Tigers took their second beating from Acadia at Wolfville 36
to 18.

Acadia outsped, outshot, and outroughed Dalhousie. As soon as a
Dalhousie player got the ball two
men were on him, and when Acadia
got the ball they broke fast and scored on the run.

The Tigers could not match the
accurate shooting of Morton and
Wilson, and had trouble breaking
through Acadia’s defense.

The aggressive play of Acadia
was shown by the fact that more
than twice as many fouls were called

they did in Sackville, and the result | on them as on Dalhousie.

showed pretty well the relative
strength of the two teams. Dalhousie played as well as they have
all year and on the play the two

 

For Dalhousie Smith and MacKimmie turned in the best play.

Dalhousie: MacKimmie 5, Seaman

teams were about equal, but Mount|® Hart 2, Smith 3, Ideson 2, Hut
Allison were superior in shooting.
Mount Allison gained their lead in

chins, Charman, MacKenzie.
Acadia: Wilson 12, Morton 11, De
the first period scoring mostly on | Witt 4, Myers 4, Churchill 2, Bayne
long shots while Dalhousie’s goals|*® Frank, Murphy.

were made from close in.

For Dalhousie the best players
were Smith, Seaman and Hart who
accounted for most of the scoring.

Dalhousie: Smith6, Ideson, Martin,
Seaman 6, Shainhouse, Hart 7, MacKimmie 1.

Mount Allison: Gardiner 3, Wilmot
3, MacLeod, Tweedie 8, Crawford 7,
Laidlaw 7, Spindler, Homer, Titus 2.

 

Nut comes up to nut keeper with
hands clasped.
Nut: “Guess what I got.”
Keeper: “Beat it, I’m busy.”
Nut: “Aw come on. Guess.”
Keeper: “Where you been?”
Nut: “Outside. Aw come
guess.”
Keeper:“A leaf? a piece of dirt?”
Nut: “Aw come on, guess.”
Keeper: “Scram, I go work to do.”
Nut: “Aw.”

on,

 

|

 

The dean

he stuck his finger
out

and pointed it at me
and sed

in fashion quite devout
you’re flunking bad

I see;

and then he shook

his index digit
underneath my nose

and sed that he was hurt
and shocked

at what

my grades disclose;

and then

he sed with wrinkled frown
my lad,

look here

you must bear down

and so i gathered up

my pluck
Keeper: “A rock?” i. a
Nut: “Naw. Give up?” a?
ike eae. ci i ain’t no duck.
crewball; Heh, heh! It’s a Auburn Plainsman.
street-car.”’
EXAMINATIONS

 

 

are like taxes—they are sure to come. Low marks in one subject often
mean failure. Prevent that failure—get your “College Helps” catalogue
now and choose helps for your courses. Send for your free copy now.

| THE BOOK EXCHANGE

Canada’s Book-Clearing House”

370 Bloor St. W., Toronto, Ontario

 

 

| Hundreds of

 

453-457 Barrington Street

Springs newest and

suits and topcoats now on display.

“The English Clothing Store”

i
INVITATION
|

smartest |

 

Colwell Brothers Limited

|
’
|
Halifax, N. S.

 

| all occasions.

 

 

 

| TOURS—

| (Continued from page 1)

ee for competent guides and con
ductors to accompany the parties on
A trip through
Alps by motor to the city of Nice,

 

|route of the first tour. When the
_two parties combine, they will motor
through the Furka and Grimsel
Passes in the Swiss Alps and then
proceed through Germany to Holland and England.

While in London the students are
to visit the Tower, Westminster Abbey and Whitehall. Day excursions
will be made to Oxford and Stratford-on-Avon.

The travel agent of the N.F.C.
U.S., Mr. J. R. Johnston, will conduct the longer of the two voyages,
it was stated. Mr. Johnston, a graduate of the University of Toronto,
has been for the past seven years
the federation representative in
London, England, and has assisted
many students with their plans for
travel and study.

At the present time a questionnaire is being circulated amongst
the Student Councils of Canada, the
president said, and it is hoped that
they in turn will obtain ideas on
travel from their constituent members. It was pointed out that if the
federation executive knew where
and when the students wished to

the |

March 3, 1939

 

ERS REPULSE GRADS |

] ties
Dal, 37; Grad, 30

 

Have Playoff Chance

/on the Mediterranean, is part of the | Smith and MacKimmie Star

Dalhousie Tigers came into
their own last night when they
scored their first victory of the
season over the Grads 37 to 30.

The Tigers opened an early
lead and were never overtaken.
Most of the goals were made
by the guards breaking into the
clear for layups while the plays
were set up in the bucket.

This was the first night the
team has played the ball of
which they are capable and
they still have a chance to get
in the league playoffs.

Every member of the team
played well with Smith and
MacKimmie outstanding. Victim of bad luck in shooting was
Johnnie Martin, or the score
would have been much higher.

Dal: Ideson 9, Martin 3, Seaman 4, Hart 2, MacKimmie 7,
Shainhouse, Smith 12.

 

—

Overheard at the Tea
“Why darling, what a stunning
gown. Too bad they didn’t have it

travel, and how much they wanted, in your size.”

to pay, the extension of their program would be facilitated.

Any inquiries concerning the announced tour should be addressed to
Mr. J. R. Johnston, N.F.C.U.S.
Travel Office, 57 Bloor Street W.
Toronto—The Varsity.

;

 

“Corrigan Week” replaces “Sadie
Hawkins Week” at Baylor, Texas.
It’s the same old thing, though;
co-eds will do the dating and pay
the bills. That week’s issue of The
Daily Lariat, the Baylor paper, was
printed in reverse form, with some
of the stories upside down, and
other various confusing angles.

Cambridge, Mass. — The influence
of jazz-minded MHarvardians has
caused the. first “jitterbug” case at
the Cambridge City Hospital.
Margaret Kiniry became over-excited with swing and had to be taken
to the hospital to be treated for
exhaustion and hysterics. Careful,
Walter and Inez!

Denny: “Did you ever break a
date?”

Pat.: “Did I?
went out with.”

Every one I ever

 

 
 

Wedding Presents

bride.

  
 

 

Selected from our showing of exclusive and attractive
| open, stock patterns of China, Crystal Stemware, Community Plate Silverware, make attractive gifts for the

 
  

Webster, Smith Co., Limited

Granville Street at Buckingham

    
        

Halifax, N. S.

  

 

So §

/

WHY NOT ENJDY
ONE EVERY DAY 2?

     
 

  

tant hen hg

 

 

| THE BEST CHOCOLATE MADE

 

 

  

 
