   
   
  

Crisis Averted?

As the Gazette goes to press

Fleet Street
ee Journalist st Speaks

    
  
   
   
     
  
 
 
 
   
   
   
      
     
     
  

 

— reports come in of increasing memy C. i. neice oi gives impressions) bership in the Dalhousie Film So4 - of Russia since the Revolution. Rus- ciety: Last night the future of this
De: sian government officials were not! society looked very black, and the
, we concerned with the fate of Czecho-| president announced early yesterday
slovakia in the recent war crisis.| that if the next twenty-four hours
Z They were concerned with the} did not bring about a sufficient in. - Ukranian problem see eo means | crease in the membership the whole
. “ “council” or “group”; Bolshevik) idea would have to be abandoned.
‘means “the majority”; U.S.S.R. is| Several of those who allied them- ; not one nation but a group of na-| selves with the Society from the be@ od tions . . . 2,000,000 Communists rule ginning were heard to say today
165,000, 000 Russians . . . The Rus-| that the apparent lack of student
b sian propaganda organization is UN-| ¢o-operation in this venture was
equalled in any country in the world amazing. It is clearly to be under- |
for its powerful effect. . Salary of | stood that the society is not foster- |
| workers is from 100 to 500. rubles ing an organization to narrowly
Cel monthly . . The Five-Year Plan | jmprove the minds of its members.

ei saved Russia from revolution in 1928/ The purpose of the Dalhousie Film |
-—-, , , The educational system is com-| Society is to bring pictures which

pulsory ... Purges are held in the
‘schools. . .Choice of profession rests
with the teachers . . . There is complete equalization of the sexes...
} ae Ras marriage and divorce laws are
ie being changed . . . Russians may
mt practice and petieve their religions
but not preach . . Canada in com| of parison wi with the Pit obean dictator
7 states is 1 the. more favoured nation the social committee, in charge,
fo Sas eee eee ere highlights Delta Gamma is arranging an in| ’ | formal dance at Shirreff Hall, to be
the held | on November 23rd. This has
noe | come to be an annual. affair, when
Sar cao substantial ‘contribution is forSee | warded from the proceeds to the
ate Community Chest. Jerry Naugler’s
_| orchestra will be in attendance and
She programme will include novelty
dances. Tickets may be purchased
from the executive: Zilpha Linkletter, president; Joan Blackwood, secretary -treasurer, and Margaret
Mack.

(Continued on page 4)

Charity Dance
At Sherriff Hall

Delta Gamma is to sponsor an informal party on November 23rd.

 

 

   
      
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
  

r WOU
‘

 
 

- Conside Siiians Situation
or aiieble pattle ground of the
future will be the Ukraine,” said Mr.
eee Pei: “Tt has been called the
is - breadbasket of Europe, possesses
_ rich iron ore, and has the quicksliver
pe _ monopoly. The population is 31,000,000 of which 80% are pure Ukran5 _jans, 10% pure Russians, 5% J ewish,

  

  

 

      
   
     

Arts and Science Society

Drafts Provisional Constitution
An important meeting of the Arts

With Margaret Mack, chairman of.

5% other nationalities; but no German minorities.”
Russian Governing Body

The absolute dictatorship of workers and peasants of the union is
maintained by purges of the opposition. The newspapers are stateedited, the Russian Broadcasting
system is state owned, all institutions for entertainment and educa
tion are state controlled, and a

system of loudspeakers in streets,
restaurants and over telephones pro
vides for the government propa
ganda. If there is any privileged
class in Russia it is that which com‘prises artists, writers and actors,
_musicans, for they can demand
larger salaries for their service.
ope desire of the government is to
create a common language, so that
even the elderly must attend schools.

_ The purges in the schools are con
\ ia

me

sidered a cleansing process. Questionnaires are circulated, and numerous students expelled from schools

a r f because of answers given. Although

men may be trained in the profes
_ sions they must accept any position
_ offered them or a trade union card,
a _ which provides food, clothing and a

home, is denied. No individual can
meoe? his house, and only 15 square

f _ feet is assigned to an individual.

 

| CABARET
STYLE

 

 

and Science Society Executive was
held on Tuesday evening of this
week for the purpose of drafting a
constitution which will be presented
to the Arts and Science Society at
a general meeting on Thursday,
November 17th. According to the
Executive, the provisional constitution will introduce surprising
changes.

Present at the meeting were
Douglas Mackean, Irene Pentz,
Jackie Cahan, George Hagen and
Ralph Karsh. The secretary-treasurer was instructed to write a letter to the Canadian Club, which
made possible C. J. Ketchum’s popular address to the students on Tuesday.

Freshman Dance

The Freshmen will start off their
social programme with a bang when
they sponsor a banquet-dance on
November 25th in the Gymnasium.
The banquet is for members of the
Class of '’42, the dance to be open
to the student body for fifty cents
per person. The social committee
for the party is Inez Smith, Joan
Ballem, Isabel Morrell, Ralph Karsh,

Gordon Kinley, John McInnis, Helen |

Rogers.

HALIFAX, N. S., NOVEMBER 11, 1938

Laval Students

Anti-imperialistic

Capital Close-up

By ROSS MUNRO
C.U.P. Correspondent

       

 

Ottawa, Nov. 7.—Canada’s armament program is a topic of major
political interest in the capital now
and predictions are being freely
'made that defence estimates will be
increased to possibly $50,000,000

next session of parilament. This
year the estimate was $34,000,000.

It is assumed the government will
embark on an armament program
and a difference of opinion is reported within the national defence
department concerning the method
of arms manufacture best suited.
The issue is private manufacture
under a_ profit-control

minion arsenal.

Defence Minister Mackenzie and
his deputy minister, General L. R.
'LaFleche, maintain that nationaliza| tion of the arms industry is the ideal
'method but Canada cannot afford to
build or operate a dominion arsenal
right now. It is estimated it would
cost $30,000,000 to get such an
arsenal ready for production. The
i aVbepaacien is private manufacture
after the fashion of the Bren Gun
contract with the John Inglis Company of Toronto, which is being investigated at an inquiry here now.

General Ashton, chief of the general staff, is a champion of government manufacture but there are
reports he will shortly retire and
there is a strong likelihood the
private-manufacture project will be
launched without much further opposition.

Mr. Justice H. H. Davis’ report on
the Bren gun probe will have direct
connection with the armament program. The report is expected to be
tabled in the commons sometime in
January or February and will have
considerable influence in the final
decision concerning how Canada will
improve its defences.

Some military authorities here
feel that the Bren inquiry has disturbed the British war office to such
an extent that possibly Britain will
curtail further orders for arms and
munitions in this country. Grave
concern is being felt because private
information has been divulged at the
inquiry which possibly might be
valuable to a foreign power and also
over certain embarrassing situations

(Continued on page 4)

 

 

 

NOTICES

| Players’ Guild:

Players’ Guild will meet Tuesday
evening, 8 o’clock, in the Murray
Homestead. é
Choral Society:

Choral Society will meet at 8.30,
Thursday evening, November 17, in
the main entrance to the Gymnasium.
| Notices:

Delta Gamma Open House

A special Open House will be held
at Shirreff Hall on Saturday evening,
November 12th.

 

Notice: Red Payne announces that
there are still eight seats vacant in
the bus to Wolfville for Saturday’s
game at $1.00 each.

system or)

: ‘tion in European wars and demand
government manufacture in a Do- P :

 

ithe students.

By MALCOLM N. DAVIES
(Special C.U.P. Correspondent)
Quebec, Nov. 7—Conscription laws
and Canadian participation in European wars were emphatically opposed in a mass demonstration of
students of Laval University here
Saturday night. Speaking in Palais
Montcalm before a crowd of fifteen
hundred students and the general
public, more than a dozen student
representatives stressed the need
for a definite Canadian foreign policy defined by the Canadian Parliament.

A resolution passed stated: “Students of Laval declare themselves
opposed to all Canadian participa
the Canadian Government declare
officially the absolute neutrality of
Canada. Students of Laval demand
the repeal of conscription laws still
in the Statutes. Students of Laval
demand the Canadian Government
proclaim a national holiday December 11 each year, the anniversary of
Statute of Westminster.”

Discussing this resolution, speakers stressed the following points:
three thousand miles of ocean constitute Canada’s safeguard in case
of war, but even if the Dominion is
attacked, the United States will defend Canada, as President Roosevelt
announced last summer; the British
Government has no right to influence Canada, as the latter country
is no longer a British colony, but an
autonomous country within the British Commonwealth of Nations; students refuse to fight in an imperial
war not of interest to Canada; if
French students must die young,
they prefer to die on Canadian soil.

“Laval students desire peace and
a foreign policy essentially Canadian. We will not fight for anybody
except Canada,” said Jean Beaudoin.

Hear English Views.

Lloyd Mackeen, unofficial representative from McGill, said: “The
majority of English-Canadian youth
oppose Canadian participation in
imperialistic war, but one must distinguish three points of view among
One group is isolationist, a second favors collective
security against aggressor nations,
and a third and smaller group is
imperialist.”

Mackeen recommended a regional

(Continued on Page Three)

COUNCIL BUYS
RECORD MACHINE

After a brief committee session
last Tuesday noon, when a report
concerning the technical condition of
the proposed Wurlitzer was read, the

committee chosen at Council meet- |

ing the previous evening to make
the final decision, voted in favor of
purchasing the machine for the
Students’ Council. It is planned
that the nickleodian will be used
after all Glee Club shows, and probably for basketball dances, ete.
Council pondered an hour and a
half on Monday evening, as they
argued the merits of the machine,
which will cost 185 dollars. It was
decided to place the final decision
in the hands of a committee, who

 

 

were to vote after due examination |

of the Wurlitzer by an expert.

Senior

Game
at 2.30

 

   

Last Rugby Game of Year

 

 

In the Law Courts |

Tuesday afternoon Lord ce
Justice Lithwick, with Lord Justice
Ash (B.Se.) of Carbonnear and Lord
Justice Milner, heard an appeal from
Dixon vs. Reuter’s Telegraph, decided some sixty years ago. Lord

ly been named to sit on the bench,

at the time the case was begun.
Mr. Burchell, K.C.,; Counsel for the
appellant argued that his client, as
the recipient of a telegram never
sent by the alleged sender, was en
had sustained by acting on the advice in the faulty telegram. Mr.
Lynch, K.C., Counsel for Reuter’s,
held the opposite view, but he was
unable to convince their Lordships.

|
|

Dal Visits Acadia

“Acadia sends us all a very cordial
invitation to be their guests at the

 

_tea dance following the game Satur
 

titled to relief for the damage he | bee

| Payne,

?

day,” said Bud MacKenzie, President
of the Students’ Council, in an an
. /nouncement made last Tuesday noon,
Justice “Tiger” Veniot had previous
The tea dance following the Acadia

; game has become an annual custom,
but El Tigero was alseep at his home |

and every year it is well attended.

The games between Acadia and
Dalhousie Saturday will be the final
games in the City Senior and City
Intermediate Leagues. There has
no notification as yet that
transportation of Dal students to
Acadia has been organized, but Red
in an exclusive interview
with Gazette correspondent, said that

| there are still eight seats vacant in
one of the team buses, at the price

'of one dollar each.

R. D. Ash, B.Se., L.J., had several
conflicts with Counsel, and at one
point, when Mr. Burchell said his)

Lordship did not understand the law, |

Ash, Li J.,
Mr. Burchell hastened to add that he
was afraid he had not clearly explained his position.
quickly soothed the
Justice,

After a lengthy argument the
Bench handed down a unanimous decision for the appellant, reversing
the judgments of both lower courts.
The court held that although due
regard must be given to precedent,
the decision here was so unjust and

___ (Continued on Page Three)

Case Report

Symptoms—Patient complains of
lack of interest in his surroundings,
inability to concentrate, excessive
sleepiness, and pain in the neck.

Family History—Negative.

Personal History—Negative.

Present IlIness—Symptoms first
appeared three weeks ago, and have
gradually increased in severity up
to the present,

Physical Examination—

1. . Eyes—have a tendency to remain shut.

irate

 

2. Mouth—has a _ tendency to
remain open. Turned down at the
corners.

3. Heart—greatly reduced heart
rate.

4. Central Nervous System—all
reflexes sluggish.

Diagnosis—Acute boredom.

Treatment—The Med Ball, to be
held at the Nova Scotian Hotel |
Friday, November 18th, should relieve all the symptoms. This longawaited event comes as a fitting
climax to the year’s social activities,
and no efforts are being spared in
its preparation.

A specially selected musical program played by Jimmy Saddler and

his orchestra is guaranteed to put)

everyone in a dancing mood. There

will be special dinner music to add |

to the evening’s enjoyment. Novelties, extras, new and unusual ideas
will insure the party’s success.

took strong exception. |

}

|

a

Glee Club

It has been the custom during the

This soft soap | Years to present three shows before
Lord | Christmas.

Of these, one show has
been given, one, the Freshman Show,
is under preparation, and the third
show, which is to be given in the
next two weeks, will consist of oneact plays. The Glee Club has chosen
one play for presentation, but as
yet no other group or society has
come forward.

These one-act plays may be given
by any society, fraternity or group
of students on the Dalhousie campus. They are entered in competition for the Connolley Shield. The
plays need not be elaborate; in fact,
we prefer the plays, whenever possible, to be given in modern dress
and with a mimimum of properties.

The Glee Club provides any stage
effects that are necessary, pays all
royalties, and. pays for the typing
of seripts. In all, we hope to be
able to present six one-act plays—
two before Christmas, four after.
As in past years, the plays will be
adjudicated by Professor Bennet,
and so the groups that present the
plays will not only provide enjoyment for themselves and for the
audience, but will also gain definite
instruction.

Please hand your application to
one of the Glee Club Executive at
the earliest possible moment, and
| please, if you are able, try to pre
| pare a play for the pre-Christmas
| presentation.

 

This |

year’s Med Ball promises to eclipse |

in entertainment value any such

function held in the past.

Student Directory Out

Now Won’t Hattie Rejoice!

The Dalhousie Student Directory
has come off the press! More complete than in past year, it has the
student’s home address as well as
the faculty, city address, and phone
number. If you haven’t your copy,
ask for one at the University store.
If you can’t get one from Roy, get
a copy from Henry Reardon. If you
have your copy and find your ad_dress or telephone number is incor
Make up a party now and come rect, contact Henry Reardon or Fred

to the last big dance of 1938.
COME ONE, COME ALL,
TO YE OLD MED BALL.

 

| Barton immediately, and in all prob| ability the error will be corrected in
coming issues of the Gazette.

 

 

| Jimmy Sadler's Orchestra -- FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 18th

TICKETS CAN BE OBTAINED AT THE DAL STORE, THE DANCE, AND FROM MED CLASS PRESIDENTS.

MED BALL-- Nova Scotian Hotel

 

3.50.
PER COUPLE

9.00 p. m. to 2.00 a. m.

 
a

oe 1 Ey

a. Seer

x es

  
  

- Founded 1869. “The Oldest College Paper in America”
views expr ssed in any column of The Gasctte are those of the author; it cannot be
imed that they represent the opinion of the student body.

  

  
 
 

Printed by McCurdy Printing Co.,
Bee GAZETTE STAFF

Sd

Editor: BERNARD GRAHAM - - - - -_ B-5033
News Editor; WALTER MURPHY Ae ee FEBIO
Asst. News Editor: BARBARA MURRAY - - 4H-5152
Sports Editor: DOUGLAS LYALL - - - - _ B-2607
Business Manager: SIDNEY A. GILLIES - - _ B-5487

Associates: Barbara Murray, Marjorie MacLean, Jim Milner, Betty
Pe rson, Lily Hirsh, Bob Swansburg, Henary Reardon, Carl MacKenzie.
eo Ss>00—_0“= oom
EXCHANGE SCHOLARSHIPS

The National Federation of Canadian University Students,
has made an arrangement with the universities of Canada
- whereby students from one university may go to another in some
other part of the dominion for their junior year. During the
year a student is an “exchange scholar’’ he is not required to
pay any registration or tuition fees. Applications for these
scholarships must be submitted before the first of March.

If one has planned his course so as to take certain specific
work and specialize in a limited field, he cannot always find
elasses at another university which will fit into his planned
course. If such a student were to receive an exchange scholarship his course would be interrupted or even disrupted. For
‘many students this is not a serious matter. When a student
igs attending a university on such an exchange scholarship he
‘finds many extra-curricular activities, and many attractions
‘outside the university to which he wishes to give considerable
_attention. While this is likely to have academic repercussions,
it also may have a detrimental and enduring effect on the
student’s habits of study and attitude towards college work.
But there are not many students who would be disturbed by
‘that. tt

To study in another university for a year adds, immediately
‘and potentially to the values of a college course. The exchange
student sees one college in the light of his experience at the
other; he is more able to appreciate the distinctive features of

 

‘both because he sees them in comparison with one another; he
begins to have some idea of what is peculiar to one particular
institution, and what might be characteristic of unniversities
in general. He is able to study under different professors, and
to experience a wider variety of opinions and attitudes. _Having been a member of the student body in two universities he
observes how very similar groups of university students are,
~ beneath their apparent and superficial differences.

y The observant exchange student early notices the provin
 

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE November 11, 1938
Obiter _—s DALHOUSIE DIGEST
Speaking:

 

Those, if any,
week’s Gazette will recall a slighting
reference to the stability of Student
Council motions and in particular
how easily they may be reversed.
Sinee I have always felt that it is
high time some kind words were said
around Dalhousie, (a policy I practise myself sometimes) I am going
to point out that when the Council
sees that it has made a mistake and
at once sets out to remedy it, that
merely shows the Council is not pigheaded. If it so happens that only
one member of the Council, in this
case Mr. MacKean, has the foresight
to see the inevitable failure of a pep
rally on Saturday before a game
that afternoon, then let us give Mr.
MacKean the credit he deserves. In
all truth, a pep rally at Dal would
probably only bring out those who
go to the games anyway, and who
always exhibit plenty of pep, so why
waste their time. It is like campaigning for a Liberal candidate at
a meeting attended by only Liberal
supporters who would vote for that
particular candidate in any event,
(except the offer of more money
from the Conservative headquarters)
which is (to use an original expression) gilding the lily.

At Ten Dollars per Head

One of that class of students who
is always belittling our fair University gave me such a bitter blow of
invective that I feel called upon to
say a word in defence. My friend
took a rather materialistic view of
the thing and complained that he
had nothing to show for his ten dollars spent in the fall but a dogeared card in the spring. You have
guessed it, the card is the “Student
Council ticket.” The problem is, do
we get value for our money? First

of all, of course, we get a year’s |

subscription to the Gazette. A most
fascinatin’ rag, don’t you think?
Then a relatively small but enthusi
who read last

 

For those who are to be public
speakers Oliver Wendell Holmes has

the following advice to offer:

Once more; speak clearly, if you

speak at all;

Carve every word before you let it

fall;

Don’t like a lecturer or dramatic

star,
Try over-hard to roll the British R;

Do put your accents in the proper

spot;

Don’t—let me beg you—don’t say
“How?” for “What?”

And when you stick on conversation’s burrs,

Don’t strew the pathway with those
dreadful “urs”.

 

Little Known Facts:

From Dale Carnegie’s “Little
Known Facts About Well Known
People” you learn that Mrs. Abe
Lincoln threw hot coffee in her husband’s face ., . that Einstein was a
dunce in school (comforting fact for
some of us) ... that Edgar Allen
Poe at the age of twenty-six was
twice the age of his wife .. . that
they tried to shoot Marconi for in
venting the radio (which makes you |
wonder if the would-be killers anti- |

cipated crooners and yodellers).

 

For Meds:

Sir Samuel Garth, a brilliant English physician of the Seventeenth
Century was asked at his club to
visit patients at night. He replied:
“Nine of them have such bad constitutions that all the physicians in
the world cannot save them; and the
other six have such good constitu
tions that all the physicians in the |

world cannot kill them.”

When he knew that death was at
hand, seeing a group of doctors in
consultation at his bedside he said:
‘Dear gentlemen, let me die a natural death.”

Six Ages:

   

“The purest form
in which tobacco
can be smoked.”

 

oa CLC REL EES: |

GAUVIN AND GENTZE

Photographers to Dalhousie University

 

Special Rates to Students — 24 Hour Finishing Service
18 SPRING GARDEN ROAD Phone B 6992

 

 

 

The Finest
Sporting Goods

THOMAS WALLACE
SONS and DAUGHTERS

SIGHT SPECIALISTS
Eyes Tested — Glasses Made
“Tf You Want to See Well See Wallace”

Y.M.C. A. BLDG. HALIFAX
and

Welcome Back MUSICAL SUPPLIES |
| Meet Your | May Be Obtained at

 

 

 

 

College Friends PHINNEY’S

at
BLAKELEY’S
The Best Place to Eat
43 SPRING GARDEN ROAD

 

 

456-460 Barrington St.

 

 
       

 

ee

3

Ph
;
Ef
1
i
4
/
oi
“i

cet

ir eed eee

4 oP
~

¥ %
ie ae

¥

+

oe

_—

a

    
    

student carries with him the friendship, good will, and con
pore sano. Strictly speaking then,

bent on learning. At thirty I stood

TEAM

Our staff, well trained in the

- astic section of our student bod : ilos-_ cialisms of his new associates. Guided by this discovery and) spends three thousand dollars a a, ne eo aes oy ee
_ the hints and outspoken statements of his new friends, his own | on sport, that is to say, on athletics. |. << unlike Shakespeare who divid-||| SUPPORT
____ provincialisms become more apparent to him. In time they are| This is to maintain that high| | ysc ints cos Ore ies Lane Hs FALL SHOES
-- rubbed off in part by the new environment. } | standard of education we get( are se ag as “itt m  eath a HOME Perfectly Fitted
/—~——s When he returns to his home university the PRCHAR SE \civin S$) At dial, ghens sana-in cor-|-> 7. ery HY

tinued interest of students he has met during his year away.
< Some of these will be among his closest friends for years.

. . , THE WURLITZER
_ The Students’ Council has purchased a Wurlitzer at a cost
of $185. Of course, they expect it will be paid for by the three
thousand seven hundred nickels from those who enjoy listening to it in Roy’s store.

The chief subjects of conversation about the campus reeently have been this decision of the Council and the merits
of the machine involved. Many are asking whether the nickel-odian was purchased because of its own qualities and the student need or because an energetic young man determined to
fell it. Certainly there is a considerable number who feel that
_the Council was over-hasty in closing the matter. These believe more care should have been taken to discover the opinions
of a goodly portion of the student body, in view especially of
the widespread dissatisfaction with the idea of using the
nickelodian at Glee Club dances.

Many opinions have been heard to the effect that it is
easier to dance to the “music” of a poor orchestra than to that
of the Wurlitzer. No one would ever say it lacked volume, but
it has been criticized in most other respects. The amplification
is far from uniform, so that there is practically no treble when
it is playing at all loudly; qualitative overtones for the most
part are not reproduced, and base notes are by no means clear;
at all times the “music” is confused by a harsh, slightly resonating noise, which seems characteristic of the machine.

It may be that the returns from the machine will increase
the Council’s resources sufficiently to justify the investment,
even if the pressure of student opinion compels the use of an
orchestra at Glee Club dances.

The widespread dissatisfaction with the use of gramophones at dances seems to be due to the invariably defective
reproduction of these instruments, and the usually poor quality
of the records used. This is indeed unfortunate, for modern
engineering has made available speakers, amplifiers, and pickups which would give “high fidelity’ reproduction if only
someone would use them to make a good gramophone; good
records are also available, but, as one may expect, they cost
more than poor ones.

CAMPUS COMMENT

(By REARDON)

Before commenting on the meet‘ings of the week—I would like to
state that nothing appearing in this
-column is meant in a personal way.
If at times an item appears to
«smack at a particular individual or
ssociety—it is, because, in the opinion of the writer, that individual or
ssociety needs particular attention,
‘not beeause of any personal grievvance. If at any time anybody disagrees with the opinions expressed

 

 

in this column, then the opinion of
that person or persons is solicited;
put your opinions on paper and mail
them to the Gazette.

 

D.A.A.C. MEETS
A very hectic meeting of the
D.A.A.C, took place Sunday morning
—with lively debates on the present
Hockey and Interfaculty Football
situations. The question regarding
hockey seems to be whether or not

¥

*

een hy on il 4 5 P ieerenene es Se Pa

this money should be found by the

-| University authorities who are sup
posed to furnish the education we
get. Certainly very few of us expect to get it ourselves. Of course
the Glee Club gets some (but not
much?) of this money.

Now to take an example of what
really goes on: my friend contributes
ten dollars and then sits back and
reads the Gazette (brave fellah),
goes to the Glee Club shows, the occasional football game, and maybe
even hears one debate in the five
years he will be here. (He will of
course be an exceptional student if
he does). If my friend, then, is
getting gypped, what about the case
of the manager of the Glee Club,
who spends much of his time to
make these shows possible, and incidentally pays his ten dollars as
well? Boy, does he ever get hooked.
And all this, mind you, says nothing
about the poor suckers who give up
their Sunday afternoons to wrangle
with the problems of Life. They pay
their ten dollars too. However, this
doesn’t answer the question whether
we receive ten dollars worth of fun
for our money. Possibly the books
should be given a more careful audit.

Dal can place on the ice a strong
enough team to warrant representation in the N. S. League. In the
opinion of the hockey manager Dal
would be able to place a team in
the League as strong as the Dal
team which entered the same league
last year

Supporting the manager was Geo.
Collins, one of the stellar players of
last year’s season. President Tom
Sheehan was of the opinion that the
hockey situation should be left over
until the coach was able to view the
prospects for a couple of practices;
after which time the coach should be
asked his opinion and the D.A.A.C.
could rule acordingly. The majority
of D.A.A.C. members supported this
idea and a motion was passed to that
effect and the hockey question is yet
to be settled.

 

From the D.A.A.C. point of view

 

firm. At forty I was free from delusions. At fifty. I understood the
laws of Providence. At sixty my
ears were attentive to the truth.
At seventy I could follow the

promptings of my heart without)

overstepping the mean.”

Confucius would not teach every
university student. He said: “If
after being shown one corner of a
subject a man cannot go on to discover the other three, I do not repeat the lesson.” His classes would
be small, perhaps, if he were a university professor.

 

Of Studies:

To students who cram (and nearly
all do) Bacon would say: “Studies
serve for delight, for ornament, and
for ability. Their chief use for
delight is in privateness and retiring...” How can there be any
delight in a course you try to “get
up” in a few days? He would discourage cramming; and give further
words of wisdom: “To spend too
much time in studies is sloth; to use
them too much for ornament is affectation” . . . He would not agree
with the minority (fortunately) who
think that college life should be all
“book-study.”

they are taking an important step—
a step which if misguided can lead
to heavy financial responsibilities (as
did happen last year). If the D.A.
A.C. were advancing slowly due to
financial considerations then I would
say by all means wait. But as it
was generaliy agreed that there was
money enough for hockey, due to an
agreement being made whereby
practices are to be free. It is my
opinion the hockey question could
have and should have been decided
on Sunday, rather then have the
situation dragging on for another
two weeks, to a time when arranging
for league play is a different matter.

 

Interfaculty Football entered quite
prominently in the Sunday discussions. Med. and Law were picked
to play in the playoffs while theoretically Arts and Science had a chance

(Continued on page three)

art of fitting shoes to the
most hard-to-fit foot, is prepared to serve you. Equipped
with “ Foot-ray” apparatus,
you can see for yourself the
exact form of your foot and
thus, the type of shoe you
require.
Consult Us Today!

Wallace Bros.
Limited
“Specialists in Fitting”
415 BARRINGTON STREET

BY
DRINKING
OLD

TIME
COFFEE

Old Time Coffee

Co., Limited
Coffee Importers

Toasters and Grinders
We Deliver

25-27 DUKE ST. Tel. B-6947

 

 

Save Money on MINER RUBBER FOOTWEAR
Our Stock Is Now Complete at Extremely Low Prices

Fit-rite Shoe Store

Tel. B-8571 170 QUINPOOL ROAD

 

——__

WHEN YOU NEED:

DRUGS MEDICINES PRESCRIPTIONS

OR ANY OTHER DRUG MERCHANDISE
YOU GET BETTER SERVICE AND VALUE

Kinley’s Drug Stores

 

 

 

 

 

1918

Armistice Day 
In Honor to Those Who Served—
In Memory of Those Who Died.

KAYS LIMITED

1938

 

 
    
  

 

STUDENTS DESIRING SPECIAL SIZES IN

LETTER CASES

can have them made to their own specifications at

KELLYS LTD.

118 Granville Street

 

 

B-6962

 
 
  
   
  
 
 
   
   
   
  
  
   
 
 
 
   
    
  
 
   
  
  
 
 
   
  
  
 
  
  
   
  
  
   
   
   
   
 
 
  
   
   
  
 
    
   
  
  
  
   
  
 
 
   
   
  
  
  
    
   
  
  
   
  
 
  

H MAL LICE TOWARDS SOME
ae Parga Halsey

 

: S oatich she began Bedoiee on board

ship going over to England. Her
husband was a professor and held an
e 2 bi exchange professorship at a small
he university in Devonshire. It deiy - -_ geribes their initial impact with the
English, then tells of a trip they
took to Norway and Sweden, and
then back again to her adventures
_ when they settle down for the winter
és — in a small English town. The book
ends on a happier note when they
= a spend their Christmas vacation in
_ Paris. We wonder if Margaret Hal* Bey really liked Paris so much better
fi _ or was it because she was just get_ ting more “used” to the European
a re way of doing things?

Be 2 Regarding the English, Margaret
a Halsey defends her stand this way.
_ “It is that the English do not critioo ‘cise America for criticisable things
| fe = ..+ They have just one big blanket
ee: ‘indictment of America. It isn’t Eng_ land. What can you do with people
- like that, except to go home and
_ taise hell in a diary?”

_ Perhaps her style of writing was
nes Des stumbling block when she came
é to analyse just why she wasn’t ter_ ribly enthusiastic about some of the
a people she met, and some of the
4s things she saw. Exaggeration was
_ evidently a strong temptation to her
and. accounted for some weakness in
the book. Some of her statements
en rather stretching after a point.

.

16 hotel where they stayed in Paris
sisted of, “He is a stout little
with snapping eyes and a
ache which makes him look

ith PF tobeh discotement
al to s ‘see how a moustache, no
bushy ‘it was, could make
look like Malcolm’s solge boughs | to Dunsinane.

88, some passages in the
; thou ugh a little unkind, were
é ‘iously funny. Here are a few
mples, | cy black-gowned verger

ok us around (Westminster Ab
ay). He strode along some ten
yards ahead of us, his gown bellying
‘in the breeze so that he looked from
the rear as if he ought to tack.
ae ‘Periodically, he wheeled about and

ai

i
LAVAL STUDENTS—
fie - = (Continued from Page 1)
_ eonference for. English and French
students at which they might dis_ ¢uss their common interests as stu~ dents and Canadians, and their position in case of war.
+ Daniel Johnson, President of the
Students’ Society at the University
of Montreal, declared: “The  students of the University of Montreal
are proud to congratulate the stu
they have dared at an opportune
moment. The speakers tonight have
over-ridden petty politics. I think
that English-speaking university
students are with us at heart, and
we students of the University of
Montreal are with you ‘plein coeur’.”’
Ask Friendship For U. S.
The speech of Marcel Carbotte,
which follows, is very typical of the
addresses delivered at the gathering. He said: “Our attitude tonight
is not that of fanatical idiots drunk
with the idea of the Utopia of a
separate French state. We are not
vanquished French, but Canadians
conscious and jealous of the liberties which we have acquired, and
which we do not wish to sacrifice on
the altar of Albion for interests not
our own. The statesmen of our
country have no more right than
those of Great Britain to push us
beneath the flags of Albion, for the
races which form Canada are not
in the majority British. The only
country with which we should make
friendship is the United States, for
our geographic situation requires
' that we do; moreover, that country
_ may be our only protector or worst
. enemy. After Regn happened in

dents of Laval on the undertaking | °

imine

 

waited for us to come up. . . his
face taut with the strained composure of a man who wishes to God
he had a cigarette. When we got
within speaking distance, he unfurled one sleeve in the direction of a
tomb and said crisply, ‘Anne-ofCleves-mind-the-step’. We all crowded solemly around Anne of Cleves, or
whoever it happened to be, and
tightened our faces into expressions
of studious interest. The verger
stood as far from us as he could,
without acutally being out of sight,
and played with a bunch of keys. At
length one of the sailors backed tentatively away from the tomb, and we
let our features slip into their normal aspect again and timidly moved
towards our guide”. “Her hair is
golden as the traditional guinea and
her complexion makes me feel like
the beach at low tide. She is, I suppose, that ‘simple English girl’ to
whom the British are fond of referring with a tender and rather horticultural pride, as if they grew them
on south walls, like apricots.” The
examples are endless and it is that
that makes the book such good
reading.

Henry, her husband, who “wore
his clothes like a toga”, was the
most interesting character in the
book. When Margaret got caught in
a field with a bull, “Henry collected
my wrist and walked unconcernedly
on, pulling me after him. I had to
be pulled. My knees could have been
stirred with a spoon... I asked
Henry how he could turn pale at a
harmless little farm dog, and yet
walk composedly past fifteen hundred pounds of professional agressiveness.

“ “Matter of dignity’, he said. ‘Rather be gored any day than have my
pants chewed off.’ ”

When they saw the tomb of the
Unknown Warrior, Margaret said.
“*The Sacred Cause of Justice And
Freedom Of The World. I suppose
they’ll be taking it in at the waist
and using it all over again, any
minute now’.

“Henry shrugged. ‘We'll have to
call the next one the ‘Unknowing
Warrior’, he said.”

I hope this gives you some idea
of what the book is like. Space does
not permit going into her impressions of Norway, Sweden, and Paris.
There is an excellent article in the
Reader’s Digest which reprints the
cream of it, but I don’t think you’ll
be satisfied until you get the book
and read it for yourself. It’s one of
the most amusing books I’ve read

| for a long time.

 

 

OUR HATTIE

By PATTER

 

“Gossip, gossip, peek and pry,
No one knows as much as I,
Taking tips from lawstude spry
This week!”, sings Hattie.

What fun our Hattie has! She
was out walking t’other day and saw
. . you’d never guess what! Anyway, she wants to know why the
little red-headed colonel was minding
a baby carriage outside that fraternity house on Oxford Street. Most
peculiar going-on ! We _ couldn’t
pump any more out of her though.

Oh, yes, and Hattie, the old nosey,
has been snooping around ’cos she
yearns to learn the names of a certain Phi Delt and of a particular
Phi Kapp who have been haunting
the Hall of late. She says to place
no Bets on the outcome as the Lady
is keeping them both well on the
string.

“Merchantz it’s another Phi Delt
who writes those cute bits about Me
and Sally at the Football game and
Me and Sally in the store!”, Hattie
said as she bounced into the office.
We said we shouldn’t be surprised
at all.

Hattie and the Frosh are agog
with preparation for the Freshman
Show. “One member,” Hattie says,
“doesn’t show up as frequently as he
should, so he is perking coffee with
me now.”

1914-18,. anyone who would force
Canada into a European war now
would be a traitor to the Canadian
nation.”

 

2 UE EEE EEE
EE EEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEE

GESee

 

TREES WEEPING

The hillside runs blood-red and gold.
_ From trees, once green,
Now sunset-tinged,

Leaves fall

Like melancholy tears,
Wept for the warm sun
They will not see again
Till Spring has come.

DAWN

The rain has passed, but the dull clouds

Ride low on the back of day,

And the slow town wakes from its long sleep
Upon a day that is as gray as dusk.

The brown streets glisten, and only the green trees

Spilling their gathered rain upon the ground

Show signs of stirring.
Can this be dawn?

Campus Comment-
(Continued from page two)

 

of displacing Law in the coveted
position. The situation was further |
comp.icated by the fact that the)

game between Med. and Law had | Saying,

been played on Saturday and Med.
crowned interfaculty champions. A
protest was presented by Law claiming that instead of Saturday’s game

being a play-down it was in reality |

just a league game. Arts and
Science manger not being on hand

Ed Cragg, Law representative took |

up the fight behalf of that.
3 . oy et " _cent years directed by E. W. Brad
Faculty.

The general opinion of the D.A.
A.C. was that had Law won the first
game on Saturday then there would
have been no protest. Whereupon,

representative Cragg protested that |

the D.A.A.C. could not take it upon

themselves to say what wou'd have | : ‘
'located in frontier places employed

Tappened, nor could they just pick at
random two tzams to play in the
playoff, while still a third team had
a chance of winning a place.

Pres. Sheehan then said: “We (the

-D.A.A.C.) can do anything we wish.”

Vice-President Hagen then moved
that Saturday’s game be counted
as a playoff and that Med. be declared Interfaculty Champions. The

motion was seconded. Cragg then

jumped up and stated that he would

talk,—and he did—until he made the

D.A.A.C. see this question in its real
light.

The outcome of the whole situa- |

tion was that Saturday’s game is
being counted as a league game, and
that Law play Arts and Science. If
Law wins then they play off with
Med; if on the other hand Arts and
Science win then they play Engineer’s who have defaulted their two
previous scheduled games; if successful they then play off with
Meds.

In my opinion the D.A.A.C. were
all too ready to pass over a difficult
situation and in their haste almost
denied a faculty its right to be
represented in a playoff.

 

BUSINESS MEETING

A short Business Meeting of the
Council took place on Monday to
make a decision as regards purchase
of a nicklelodian for the campus.
While no members were against the
purchase of such a machine, three
members were undecided as to how
it would sound in a crowded gym
during a dance after a Glee Club
show. After an hour’s discussion it
was decided that a radio expert be
asked his opinion as to the condition
of the machine and as to how it
might be expected to sound in the
gym. If in the opinion of this expert
the machine was in good condition,
and that it would react favorably in
the gym, then it was left to a committee to decide whether or not the
machine should be purchased.

Doug MacKean, Arts and Science
President, then asked Council opinion as to what reception they would
give to Arts and Science Society
petition, that Arts and Science representatives be chosen from that
Society. He stated that each class
would be guaranteed at least one
representative on the Council, but
that the fifth representative could
come from any class in Arts and
Seience. Council opinion on the mat
 

™~

 

Frontier College

In an address to the Ontario
Educational Organization in 1937,
His Excellency the Right Honourable
'Lord Tweedsmuir is quoted as
“Canada’s educational organization should be, from the nature of things, more elastic than
that in Great Britain. Authorities
must be prepared to go beyond the
schools. The work of an institution
like Frontier College points the
way.”

Started in 1900 by the late Alfred
Fitzpatrick, O.B.E., and in more re
win, M.A., Ph.D., Frontier College
has as its primary purpose the education of men in camps, and it may
be regarded as a pioneer in Adult

| Education.
Its methods are unique. Ordinarily about 100,000 campmen are

 

 

at various kinds of work—mining,
logging, on railways, and in bush
operations. To as many of these
camps as possible, and with the
consent and co-operation of the employers, Frontier College sends
labourer-teachers, recruited from the
colleges and universities throughout
Canada. During the day they work
side by side with the campmen, receiving equal pay and enjoying no
special privileges. In the evenings
they organize classes. The teaching
varies with the educational requirements of the men. Those who are
foreign-born learn to speak and
write English, others improve their
knowledge of arithmetic. There are
discussions on subjects of general
interest, debates are sometimes held,
while music and singing are not
neglected. A worker with the men,
a labourer-teacher becomes their
“pal”, arbitrates their disputes, appreciates their view-points, and at
the same time shares his own with
them. Class attendance, of course,
is voluntary. All services to the
men are free.

Frontier College supplies the following figures for 1937: 100 labourer-teachers were employed; 2,117
campmen were enrolled in study
classes; 9,870 workers benefitted
from discussions on Land Settlement, Hygiene, Naturalization,
Thrift, and other topics of interest;
104,000 magazine and books were
provided for the use of camp
workers.

In the Maritimes we hear little
about the work being done by Frontier College. Of 158 instructors in
1936, three were from Dalhousie
University (of whom the writer was
ltr dist ek na

Arts and Science Society is now enabled to draft its constitution, and to
present its petition with some assurance that it will be heard.

The Arts and Science Society used
to be at one time a controlling force
on the campus, but this force in the
past ten years has dwindled to nothing. This year a definite start has
been made, a start from which, with
the proper support of all Arts and
Science students, can develop a Society, that once again will take its
proper place among the great societies of the University. This will
make Studley’s position on the
campus felt rather than imagined.
It is suggested that any one with
ideas beneficial to this society get in
touch with the executive and co
ter being definitely favourable, the operate in every way possible.

-s a es

f ea

 

| idea?

I

 

 

Page Thrce

 

Advice to the Lovelorn

Miss Spry:

Say listen you, what’s the big
Just where do you think
you’re getting off anyway? After
reading your last bit of advice I said
to myself, said I, gosh if I could lay
my hands on that female—well,
there’d just be one gold digger less,
that’s all. What do you mean by
feeding these girls such tripe?
Don’t we men deserve any consideration whatsoever?

Take my case, for instance—I lugged around the same dame to all the |
campus shindigs for three weeks
running. Oh sure, I liked her al-|
right, but you know how now and
again a guy sees a pretty face and
gee how he’d like to take her places.
But me, I just told Satan to come|
around some other time—and what
do I get for it? Not even a bid to
the dance. Instead she asks some
dumb Freshman who caught her eye
on the football field, and you’d tell
her she was doing fine!! Well, may-|
be I’m old-fashioned but it’s my idea |
of a dirty gyp.

Don’t you think you’re being just.
a little too harsh? After all, we)
poor saps do take girls around a bit,
you know.

Yours truly,
DISILLUSIONED. |

ea

 

*%

Dear “Disillusioned”:

I fail to understand why your
parents let you go to college at such
an early age — I really think you |
need their protection and guidance
for some time yet.

There are several essential facts
your parents very foolishly neglected
to tell you. Girls do not go to col
 

BUCKSHOT FOR JIVE-CATS

Oklahoma University has turned
an emphatic thumb down on jitterbugs and “rug cutters” by curtailing
the shag and such “cannibalistic
jumping” at Student Union Dances.

“This kind of wild dancing has
no place in college and it is certainly most unbecoming to college men
and women,” declared the director of
Union activities. “I don’t want to
see any more of it on PAs dance
floor.”

The Union head blames shagsters
and their kin running “the whole atmosphere of our dances and perhaps
accounting for the lack of success,
both financially and socially last
year.”

“T know a number of people who
like to dance for the beauty and
pleasure of conservative dancing and
who wouldn’t come to any dances |
here because of those who ‘hopped’
all over the place and made it look
like a honkytonk,” backed up the
executive secretary of the Independant Men’s Association.

Campus officials will contact orchestra managers and student leaders to seek co-operation in a campaign against “extreme” dancing.
The Southwest henceforth may be |
woolly, but apparently it won’t be
quite so wild—The Fordham Ram.

one), and seven were located in
Nova Scotia.

Attempts by Frontier College |
during the last two years to extend
its work in this province have met
with little success. Since the earnings of a labourer-teacher are obtained largely from his daily work
—he receive a small stipend from
the college—the co-operation of employers and gangs of men is essential; but it is almost entirely lacking
in the Maritimes. Employers do SiO
seem to realize, as do those in Onthario and the Western Provinces,
that Frontier College is performing
a task of inestimable value, that its
labourer-teachers are good workers,
and that they are an asset to camps,
giving necessary leadership to the
men and having a stabilizing effect |
upon them.

 

This article is not intended to be
comprehensive, but to those desiring |
fuller information the writer commends two very interesting books:
THE BUNKHOUSE MAN, Bradwin;
and THE UNIVERSITY IN OVER-|
ALLS, Fitzpatrick, of which there is
a copy in the Macdonald Memorial |
Library.

keep her guessing.

Lordship dismissed the case.

 

lege to prepare for careers—career
women seldom marry, and woman’s
highest ambition is to own a man
and home. Please understand that
this is not a rash statement for
which I have no proof; I speak from
experience.

However, girls don’t squander
several thousand dollars on nothing
at all—they come to college for a
“good time”, and they will get their
money’s worth by one means or another. Every girl is a natural born
gold digger, and she has every right
to be. After all, men don’t take
girls out because they like to see
them getting around.

As for your girl in particular, I
congratulate her. We want more
girls of her calibre around. If you
escorted the same young lady to all
the campus activities for three successive weeks, while you wanted to
take out another but had not the

‘courage to do so, you certainly de
served to be treated as you were.
The surest way to keep a girl is to
As soon as she
thinks you’re her devoted slave,
you’ve lost her. If you paid a little
attention to other girls even though
you were not interested in them,
your girl friend would have asked
you to the dance. Make her wonder

|about you occasionally. Noticeably
| stare at every pretty girl that pass
es by. Flirt with ali the girls you
dance with. If your girl friend’s
name is Joan, whisper fervently to
her, “I love you, Betty.” She certainly wouldn’t ask a dumb Freshman to the next dance.
Sincerely,
SALLY SPRY.

IN THE LAW COURTS——
(Continued from Page One)

had been unjust so long that in the
interests of humanity it should be
reversed. Their Lordships found
ample precedent for their opinion in
the famous Scotch snail case’ where
a manufacturer was held liable for
unwittingly putting a snail in his
ginger ale.

Last Friday, Lord Chief Justice
O’Brien, with Lord Justices Webb
and Sawler, heard an appeal by one
Howard from the decision of the
English Court of Appeal in the case
of Howard vs. The Odhams Press,
Ltd. The point to be decided was
whether a contract made by the
company and the appellant would be
enforceable, since it provided for the
non-disclosure of the commission of
a fraud. V. M. (Corky) Koretsky,
K.C., for the appellant Howard
argued that such a contract was not
against public policy and ought to
be allowed by the court. E. F.
Merchant, K.C., for the Publishing
Company, argued that since the contract, if enforced, would result in the
court allowing evidence of a crime
to be covered up, it must be against
public policy. Their Lordships extended very hearty congratulations
to Mr. Koretsky, but they gave their
decision in favor of Mr. Merchant.

Following the hearing, Lord Justice McQuaid held a special sitting
of the Criminal Court to hear the
case of the King vs. R. D. Ash, B.Sc.,
and H. A. Tiger Veniot. The complaint charged Messrs. Ash and
Veniot (described therein as common vagrants) with creating a disturbance outside the Law Library
door, to the annoyance of those
studying within. Evidence was given
by several students who claimed to
have been interrupted in the course
of their worship in the library. This
was particularly well brought out by
the evidence of D. G. Bagg, who
claimed that studying in the Law
Library was a matter of worship to
him. Mr. Bagg testified that neither
of the female members of the third
year Law class was in the Library
at the time. Lord Justice McQuaid
found the prisoners guilty, and sentenced them to call at Shirreff Hall

| that night and each take one of the

aforesaid female members of the
/year to the Capitol. In _ option
thereto, his Lordship decreed that
the prisoners should every morning
for the next week carry the books

of the same young ladies into the

With this his
There
will be no appeal, unless by D. G.
Bagg, or Johnnie Morrison.

nine o’clock class.

 
  
    
 
       
 
   
  
 
 
   
 
     
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
       

  
  

The Da‘housie Tigers almost,
| evened the score with the Wanderie ers for the year at two games each.
a yee the last minutes of the game,
| -—~—« through their over-anxiety, a pen___ alty was awarded against them that
-__-yesulted in tying the score and eliminating Dalhousie from the running
for the league championship. Dal__-‘hhousie had to win last week to stay
ins the running, but even though
they ~only tied the Wanderers they
- showed themselves a team of which
‘Dalhousie can well be proud.
_ After winning the first game of
the year with Acadia, the Tigers
were beaten by Mount Allison. This
game was the turning point in their
luck. The team was weakened by
injuries to the players and took two
- decisive beatings from the Wanderers and another from Mount Allison
before they became organized again.
Then, when they were conceded no
chance of winning, they went out to
defeat the Wanderers by a great second half stand and last week showed
their superiority by outplaying them
though they could do no better than

 
 

   
 

fi

=

~~ ee
as

  

     

Dag a tie.
s Last week the biggest crowd of
ie the year saw the Tigers make their

ay great but unsuccessful try for victory. The first half Dalhousie had
| the sun in their faces. There was
hie practically no wind one way or the
other. At first both teams were trying too hard so that numerous penal‘ties had to be awarded to both sides
to keep the game under control. The
Wanderers pack controlled the ball
for the first few scrums but for the
rest of the game they were outheeled by the Dalhousie forwards.
Neither three-quarter line could gain
much ground for they were tackled
as soon as they received the ball.
Leith of Dalhousie broke clear and
yan fifty yards with the ball down
_ the middle of the field before being
brought down by the Wanderers
~~ fullback. Immediately afterwards
Besa} - Leith’s run was answered by Black
q ee of the Wanderers, who ran along the
_ toueh line for almost the same
; ea Pee aa i

 

 
  
 
  
   
    
 
      
        

—

__ the Wanderers 25-yard line Henry
-. Ross kicked the ball across field to
__ Fiendel on the wing who caught it
on the bounce and raced over the line

Li sin the far corner to give Dalhousie
a 8-0 lead. Just before half-time the
‘score was tied on a pentalty kick by
Don Bauld from Dalhosie’s 40-yard
line.

The second half was all Dalhousie’s with the Wanderers on the
defensive most of the time. Phillips
put Dalhousie in the lead for the
second time by scoring on a penalty
kick. The ball bounced off a post
over the cross bar. The Tigers now
made a fierce and continuous attack
on the goal line but were held off
from scoring, several times only by a
few feet. Dalhousie semed almost
sure to win when they were penalized for picking the ball out of the
scrum to halt a dribbling attack of
_ the Wanderers. Just as Phillips had

done, Don Bauld hit the post but
the ball bounced over the cross-bar
and with it went Dalhousie’s hopes
of victory for this year.

There only remains the game with
Acadia at Wolfville this Saturday,
Nov. 12, The Tigers at the top of
their form should defeat Acadia.

_ Even though the result will not affect the standing this game is the
most fun of the football season, so

  
     
   

°

  
 

 

 

pas everyone should try and be there.
| rs Consisting of six teams, a soccer

league is now organized on the cam‘pus, under the direction of the Newfoundland Club, in competition for

a cup donated by Mr. Wilson, fish
and chips merchant, Agricola Street.
_ The participating teams, which inelude Pine Hill, King’s, Arts and
ihe * Science, Commerce, Engineers and
the Newfoundland Club, extends
| _—-— their thanks to Mr. Wilson and to
roy icy Mat. Bikes,

f _ A committee of professors, one
- for each team, act as arbitrators in
_ @ases of dispute and hold the cup in
eS _ trust until the completion of the
__* series, which is run on the eliminaciel tion or knockout system,
fee On Saturday the Engineers lost
to Pine Hill by the score of 1—0.

_.__. Throughout the game the Engineers

ay
:

_ vi

&
ae

e Tigers began to press, and on |

November 11, 1938

 

  

owo-nnnwmGd —-4

BACK ROW (left to right): Vic Haines, fullback; Clayton Hutchins, three-quarter; Sid Pauker, three-quarter; Kent Irwin, capt.; Jim Feindel,
three-quarter; Bus Phillips, forward; Murray Davis, forward; Clutch McKimmie, forward; Hazen Mitchell, forward.
FRONT ROW (left to right): Henry Ross, three-quarter; Don Storey, forward; Jack Kerr, forward; Harvey Veniot, block; Rod Ideson, for
ward; Reg Eaton, picking half.

 

Girls’ Sport

Ground Hockey:

The ground hockey team gets bet-| unbroken losing their fourth game

ter and better. The game last
Wednesday with H. L. C. when the
score was 1-1, certainly showed this.
For the first time we saw some real
teamwork—especially in the forward
line. The defence was as strong and
alert as ever, and the play was, for
a change, mostly in the H. L. C. half
of the field. Although the whole
team played well May Wood, Bette
Thomas, and Marg. MacIntosh were
outstanding.

The game with Edgehill, which
was to have been played last week
had to be postponed until next Wednesday. There will be an extra
practice on Tuesday at noon as a
tryout for the game.

cere

PR. Tes 3

The gym class on Friday for
upper-classmen is proving to be very
popular and lots of fun. Some of
the M.A. tests have been given and
those girls who have not had them
will be given them next week There
are tests for speed, balance, jumping
ability, and co-ordination. Another
thing which adds to the enjoyment
of the class is the music—and not
from the nicklelodian.

There is another class on Thursday at 12 for those who do not find

Friday convenient.

*+ * *

Golf:

Golf coaching must certainly have
had lots of pep in it because rank
beginners have graduated from cotton balls on the campus to real ones
on the links at Gorsebrook. Don’t
say we didn’t tell you about golf
lessons before because we did, and
if you’re sorry now you didn’t join
them it’s not our fault! Dalhousie
is by the sea and so is St. Andrews.
Is there any connection?

 

Correction: Instead of not very
comfortable” as in this column last
week the print should read “not only
very comfortable.”

 

(Capt.), the latter scoring almost
from centre field. The Engineers,
led by Vail (Capt.) and Hatfield,
tried hard, but the clever goal-tending of Archie King was too much
for them and the game ended with
Pine Hill the victors.

The line-ups for the teams were
as follows:

Pine Hill—Goal: King; full backs:
Osborne and Ballem; halves: D.
Robb, H. McHattie, C. Fraser; forwards: J. Fraser, R. Laltoo, L. MacHattie, H, Lauder, G. Firth.

Engineers—Goal: Sylvester; full
backs:James, Lugar; halves: Brownhill, Mountain, Mitchell; forwards:
‘Vail, Hubley, Wright, Horne, Hatfield.

The next game will be played
Thursday, 12 to 1, between King’s
and the Newfoundland Club. On
Friday, 1 to 2, Commerce will fight
it out with Arts and Science.

ee

SS ee ee

Interfaculty Football
Wanderers 6; Cubs 0

The Cubs kept their beaten record

to the Wanderers and their fifth of
the season. Last week they played
much better than before and they
still have a chance to win a game
at Acadia this Saturday. The Wanderers second team is exceptionally
strong so there is no discredit in
being beaten by them. They really
did well to keep them from scoring
more points. The Wanderers’ six

 

Intermediate Football
Medicine 3; Law 0

Medicine defeated Law last Saturday in Interfaculty football, one try
to nothing. Medicine controlled the
ball through the scrum, but play was
for the most part in Medicine’s territory. The only try of the game
was scored by Jamieson for Medicine. The schedule for interfaculty
football will be completed.

points were made by a try and a
penalty goal.

@ COMMENT ON SPORTS @

 

_ After the game with Acadia this
Saturday the interest in sports will
shift from football to basketball.
Basketball is already under way
and regular practices are held as
posted on the notice boards in the
gym and Forrest Building. Nothing
is certain yet regarding the city
leagues and the teams that will be
entered. Dalhousie however will
have two teams—senior and intermediate. Of last year’s senior team
inimitable Johnnie Martin, Shainhouse, Ideson, Seaman, Hart, Hatfield and Anderson are back and will
be playing: of the intermediates,
Babe Stewart, Hutton, Cameron,
Mercer and: Charman. Of those who
have been turning out the best seem
to be McKimmie, Mike Smith, Van
Horn and Vail.

 

HOCKEY

Hockey is the subject of much discussion these days. The situation
with respect to hockey seems to be
this—first of all it is pretty well
decided that Dalhousie will enter a
team in the intercollegiate league.
But what about those players who
are ineligible. for intercollegiate
competition ?

Well, Dalhousie could play in the
Nova Scotia Hockey League where
they played last year, made a fine
showing and won many friends in
the province. But to play in this
league Dalhousie must have a team
of pretty high calibre. It would be
ridiculous to enter the league and

 

make no showing at all.

If a team strong enough to compete in this league can be drawn
from the student body alone, or a
team for the most part consisting
of students but strengthened by two
or three alumni—as the case was
last year—Dalhousie will probably
enter the league; but if the team
has to rely for the most part on the
alumni, they probably will not enter.
If Dal doesn’t play in this league
where will she play?

Well, that’s the situation at present. In the meantime practices will
be held so that the probable strength
of the team can be determined and
those in authority can decide what
course of action will be followed.

Christmas ?

Yes it is time for Christmas Cards, particularly
Fraternities, which group
members’ orders, to obtain
the quantity price.

It is one of Birks many
services.

HENRY BIRKS AND
SONS LIMITED

Diamond Merchants
Halifax, N. S.

 

 

 

Farmers’ Ice Cream

IS OF OUTSTANDING QUALITY

“Taste the difference”

FARMERS’ LIMITED - Halifax

 

‘CRISIS AVERTED—

(Continued from Page One)

| will interest and entertain the mem
| bers of the Society.

It is very much
regretted by the executive that the

}

Sacha Guitry, had to be cancelled.

ciety in covering Censor’s fees for
screening, this feature, which is not
|available from any Canadian distri| butors, had to be indefinitely post'poned. The executive have been
making arrangements through the
day to procure a French film directed by Rene Clair, or, if possible,
Conrad Veidt’s famous picture, ‘The
Wandering Jew.”

 

At the time of going to press it
was not known what film would be
shown next Friday night, but the
show will definitely go on at that
time. The executive when they
spoke to the Gazette last night were
most emphatic as to the necessity
of enlisting more members. As this
is a purely co-operative venture, the

C)

 

     

 

| picture, “Pearls of the Crown”, by | With
the well known French director, | British or United States gun designs
|in the armament race. The tendency

Owing to the expense to the So- | appears at present to co-operate fully

| Capital Closeup-
(Continued from Page One)

which have arisen when information
has been asked from the war office.

The Bren contract was Britain’s
first armament order in Canada and
its reception does not augur very
favorably for further orders. One
national defence official goes as far
as to forecast that the British war
office order for airplanes which is
expected to be announced soon, will
not be nearly as large as first expected, because of the Bren gun
difficulty.

When the British air mission was
here in connection with placing plane
orders, it was indicated it would
_ bring $250,000,000 to the Canadian
aircraft industry.

Canada’s own attempts to manu|facture arms for herself will be
seriously affected if large British
|orders are not placed. With the
|large British orders and substantial
_Canadian orders, private industry in
_this country would be in a position
| to provide large-scale production ra‘ther than piece-meal manufacture
|which would result from producing
for Canada’s needs alone.

 

With the government suddenly be‘coming defence conscious, great
|emphasis is being placed on the de| plorable conditions of the national
|defences. While $36,000,000 was
| appropriated last year for defence
and $34,000,000 this year, there has
been difficulty in getting orders
| filled and little progress has been
i|made. To cite but one example,
| there are only two-anti-aircraft guns
|in the whole country, and anti-air| craft guns are considered one of
Canada’s major defensive weapons.

 

iby
| Military experts also are faced

the problem of following

with Britain, although with the difficulty being encountered to get arms
orders filled, there is a chance orders
might be placed with United States
firms.

This might involve closer co-operation concerning defence between
the United States and Canadian
governments.

 

number of films shown depends directly upon the number of members
in the Society.

At present the membership approximates one hundred, and it is
expected this number will be doubled
by next Friday, when the first film
will be shown. All members are
guaranteed at least four picture
programs.

eS gece eer se Drege: - pre ie ferme eet

-__

of ese*ttetine astttats 
sess ecetiet estes % + ee) eens tae. +e*,e . ;

ar feceaty** : viene Pree a8 Ore ce Seek tetra sn, eRe seg heels he ya!

FLOWERS

a*lotectae?
OO" a See oi.
ot eetetay tbe

AX:

 

 

the

 

made with

eil=oS ON

 

fersey Milk Chocolate
THE BEST MILK CHOCOLATE

 
