 

 

 

 

 

Pee FOL. HALIFAX, N. S., OCTOBER 14, 1938 No. 3
i - = : a

ae

as ae ; :

pes: TRIBUTES TRIBUTES

| sR. CARLETON STANLEY, JAMES MacG. STEWART, DR. H. M. TORY, reer ert

i SPresidens, Dalhneisie University Chairman, Board of Governors: pee pvconeom National Gat ak io

¢ “4S , ! ; . Th h d heard Dr. esearch ia - J/niversity of saskatchewan:

BE in, or wn tie oe eee ne Sete ceiling ‘hex the tab- I find it difficult to express my-| A great man has left us. The
fe eet epensic. tre: wat mot self concerning the death of Dr.| name of Stanley Mackenzie will go

perhaps sufficient attention given to
ie ie the great part he played in the
affiliation of King’s College to Dala oe -housie University in 1923. For some
time previous to that date there had
been an earnest and serious movess ment to bring together the six de_——s—ss«gtree-granting colleges, which at that
time existed in the Maritime Prov| _inces: Dalhousie University itself;
King’s College, Windsor, N. S.;
ees Mount Allison University, Sackville.
r oy  N.B.; St. Francis Xavier University,
, p Antigonish, N.S.; Acadia University,
ss Wolfville, N. S.; the University of
New Brunswick, Fredericton, N. B.

In the whole movement, President
Mackenzie displayed not merely tact
and diplomacy, but real statesmanship, and at one time it was felt
that other institutions besides King’s
College would move to Halifax and
affiliate with the large university.

«Had negotiations been wholly cond by President Mackenzie, the
might have been more

bh ae 4

“Se

‘
   
   
   

;

   
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
      
  
 
   
 
 

Ls

ae
as

  
  

  
 
 

housie University and the
er institution of King’s Colch had been secular rivals,
new era in higher education
m Canada. The pooling of

  
   
  

  

meant that the Arts and Science
_ Faculty could offer a higher education hitherto undreamed of. Besides
~ “this, the affiliation, which has been
evenly and continuously happy and
harmonious, points the way to a new
future in higher education. The Earl
of Dalhousie foresaw, one hundred
and twenty years ago, that in this
New country with its limited resources and, at the same time, with
its new freedom, denominationalism
in religion could have no place in
higher education.
No one was more steeped in Dalhousie’s loft and far-sighted ideas
than President Mackenzie.”

Cc. B. NICKERSON,
Dean of the Faculty of Arts and Science:
Dalhousians will always associate
the name of Arthur Stanley Mackenzie with education, and future
generations will be proud to learn
that as an educator he ranked

C. B. Nickerson
(Continued on Page 2)

. As it was, the affiliation

- Oa ee ee es Pesan f
: hing and library resources |

lets in memory of his predecessors
in office were unveiled during the
Reunion little thought that this was
to be his last service to his college.
He seemed so vigorous and cheerful. The dignity and charm of his
prime were still his. Yet within two
months that life of devotion to Dalhousie was ended.

As a brilliant student and tutor,
as an inspiring professor, and as an
active, wise and careful President,
his connection with Dalhousie extended over 40 years. He saw it
grow from a little college into a
University with an _ international
reputation and standing; and in that
growth he took the foremost part.

With George S. Campbell, G. Fred
Pearson and Hector McInnes he
formed the inner committee that
constituted the direction, the driving
force and the inspiration of Dalhousie’s forward movements. He has
left behind him a record of service
to his college and native Province
that is one of the proudest chapters
in Dalhousie’s history and an inspiration to all succeeding generations
of Dalhousie.

DR. W. W. WOODBURY,
Dean of the Faculty of Dentistry:

Dr. A. Stanley Mackenzie was an
outstanding example of his own
strongly held conviction that education is a very important factor in
the development of leadership.

A native ability joined with sound

ence; a natural dignity that did not
render him any less approachable;
a sustained interest in the future
and a steady refusal to allow the
passage of the years to blunt the
freshness of his outlook; these were
some of the elements that made him
an inspiration to his younger colleagues, and that later made it seem
quite natural that he should continue to take an active interest in
the vital affairs of his community
after he had officially retired from
his chief work.

Those of us who were privileged
to be associated with the Dental
School during the years of his Presidency of the University will carry
with gratitude the memory of his
of his disinterested service and
stimulating leadership.

 

Mackenzie—The Scientist

By DR. G. H.

HENDERSON

Professor of Mathematical Physics (King’s)

Before accepting the Presidency
of Dalhousie, Dr. Mackenzie had
already achieved a_ distinguished
record as a scientist. Early in his
undergraduate course he made his
choice for physics and he graduated
from Dalhousie with honours in
mathematics and mathematical
physics and the Sir William Young
Gold Medal. After two years as
tutor under Professors Gordon MacGregor and Charles MacDonald he
went to John’s Hopkins University
to study under that great, if somewhat difficult genius, Henry A.

Rowland.

It was Rowland, on the witness
stand in an important lawsuit, who,
when asked by an attorney, “Who is

the greatest physicist ‘in America”,
- replied simply, “I am”. When a colleague, greatly daring, rallied him
on this lack of modesty, he replied
indignantly “But I was on my oath”.

 
 
  
   
 
    
  
  
  
   
  
  
   
   
  
   
    
   

ad

.™ e

ren
nm
a!

:

72a

Mackenzie was one of Rowland’s
favorite students. That this was so
is a tribute both to his qualities as
a man and to his skill as a scientist,
for Rowland did not suffer fools
gladly. To hear Dr. Mackenzie in
a reminiscent mood talking of those
great days when John’s Hopkins
was far in the lead in higher education in America, was indeed an
unforgettable memory to a physicist
of a later generation.

His doctoral dissertation was an
investigation of the laws of gravitation of crystalline solids, carried
out with an apparatus first made
famous by Cavendish but refined to
a point calling for the highest of
experimental skill. His mastery of
this branch of physics led to Dr.
Mackenzie’s being chosen later to
edit the classical memoirs on gravi
Mackenzie—the Scientist
(Continued on Page Two)

 

Mackenzie—The Man

Dr. A. Stanley Mackenzie was born in Pictou in 1865. He
attended the public schools of New Glasgow and Halifax, and
scholarship and ripened by experi-|e@ntered Dalhousie in 1882, after winning one of the George

Munro Scholarships. He received his Bachelor of Arts degree
‘in 1885, graduating with honors in mathematics and mathe
MacGregor, names inseparable from early Dalhousie.
began his post-graduate study and research. He was awarded
the Doctors’ degree in 1894.

From 1891 to 1905, Dr. Mackenzie was Professor of
Physics at Bryn Mawr College, Pennsylvannia. In 1905, he
was recalled by Dalhousie to take the chair of Physics. Later,
he spent a year doing research work under Sir Joseph Thompson at Cambridge. Afterwards, he was appointed head of the
Physics Department at Stevens Institute, New York, and in
1911 was summoned back to Dalhousie to become her President,
in succession to Dr. John Forrest.

In addition to the degrees earned in the course of a brilliant

 

 

academic career at home and abroad, Dr. Mackenzie had been
honoured by many sister universities. His writings were
mainly scientific and he was the author of numerous articles in
educational journals. He published one book, “The Law of
Gravitation”’:

Dr. Mackenzie married Mary Lewis Taylor, daughter of
the late Franklin Taylor, Indianapolis, in 1895. She died a
year later.

For twenty years Dr. Mackenzie was the President of
Dalhousie. During those years he watched and helped the
University grow to the valuable Canadian Educational Institution which we know today. During his term of office the
medical, law and dental schools were reorganized and won
international recognition. The arts and science faculties were
enlarged and the departments of commerce, engineering,
pharmacy, music and fisheries added. Under Dr. Mackenzie a
new university campus—Studley—became the site of the departments of Arts and Science.

For many years, Dr. Mackenzie played a large part in the
annual Conference of Canadian College Presidents, which shapes
and directs the educational policies of the country as a whole.
He also aided greatly in founding and manning the National
Council of Scientific Research. He was the last original member of the Council when he retired last March.

Dr. Mackenzie retired from the Presidency of Dalhousie in
1931, but to all those who had known him, and also to those
who had only been told about him, he was still part of the
University. His last public act in connection with Dalhousie,
was to unveil the cornerstone of the new Medical Library during the Reunion: activities. Many there are who will long
remember this occasion when ‘they saw for the last time Dr.
Stanley Mackenzie, their professor, president, friend—or as we
who are younger saw him—as a very great Dalhousian.

'matical physics, and winning the Sir William Young gold medal. |

In 1887, Mr. Mackenzie was appointed tutor in mathematics |
at Dalhousie under Professor Charles MacDonald and J. Gordon |
| After |
two years he proceeded to John’s Hopkin University, where he|

 

 

years as the George Munro Professor of Physics.
ability as a teacher was then recognized far beyond the walls of the
College.
for “Stan’s” Physics 1 even before
coming to Halifax.
ginning he impressed the youthful
but critical audience with his commanding presence; we were enthralled by his brilliant expositions and
by his
blackboard.
ences with individual students were
memorable; we were quickly put at
ease; he was kind and sympathetic.
He pointed out our deficiencies in
such a pleasant way and then gave
encouragement.
solved to do bet(-r things. He was
at his best in these conversations,

Mackenzie so great is my sorrow at
his passing. He has passed on but
has work cannot be forgotten. He
was one of-the few of his generation who on graduation saw that due
to lack of opportunity for gradu- |
ate work in Canada foreign study | President Mackenzie found Dalwas necessary if he were to make a housie in a brick building on a city
place for himself in his chosen pro- | lot; he left it on a spacious campus
fession It was during the years he|
was studying and teaching abroad

| With stone buildings of rare beauty.
: i The dignified and beautiful exterior
that he established his reputation as
a man of Science.

‘is worthy of the great tradition of

|high scholarship, public service and

His return to Nova Scotia as academic freedom which he preserv
Principal of Dalhousie came at a ed and enlarged. This miracle was
time when higher education was
finding a larger place in our na
wrought within twenty years, not
withstanding the harrasment of a
tional life, an opportunity for study great war and scanty resources.
and research was being greatly extended. He was soon recognized as
one of the outstanding figures in
Canadian Education. From the beginning he took a prominent place
not only in building up the Institution of which he was Head but as a
leader in promoting progressive
effort in Canada as a whole. His
long association with the National
Research Council of which he was a
member from the beginning until
1987 illustrates the position which
he held in the estimation of those
who were associated with him.
Kindly in his relation with his fellows, he was clear in his opinions
and firm in judgment once he saw
his way. While he did not pursue
his purpose with emotional enthusiasm he had an intellectual intensity
which it was not easy to resist. The
Dalhousie of today is a monument

down in university history beside
those of Dawson and Grant. Like
them he transformed a small college
into a national university, preserving the best of the Scottish tradition.

He was one of the original members of the National Research Council and for over twenty years he exercised a beneficent influence upon
the research activities of the universities of Canada.

President Mackenzie was also one
of the original and more influential
members of the National Conferences of Canadian Universities
which brought about better relations
between the universities of Canada,
higher standards, more uniform requirements, the development of
graduate schools in Canada; and
better relations between the Canadian and the British universities,
more particularly with respect to
graduate work.

Great and distinguished as have
been the services of President Mackenzie as’ a national leader, they
to his steadiness of purpose and his! “°"°. men Snonitass eae Sas
ability to interest others in his ideas, | ¥o his students, to his colleagues
Br die death Canddw haw ise ‘as sob. and his friends. In sympathy, sound
standing citizen, Nova Scotia a dis- judgment and Seacrest loyalty ae:
tinguished son and we who knew| ©“ iis, mae Ever ready to listen
to the difficulties of others, and dis
 

him intimately a most beloved!. t Ena Sia “Th ‘ail
interestec ady rer fa

fica. ereste _in advice, he never failed
to give wise counsel. May I, as one
, who consulted hi rhenever SC. L. BENNET, ulted him, whenever pos
George Munro Professor of English BIC,” SAY that never once did he
Literature and Head of Department: fail me, never once was his judg
The dominant impression left by | ment wrong, never once was it reDr. Mackenzie is that of command:!| jected. More than words can excommand of his field of study;| press I owe to him.
command of his organization; comeoae those naa he had to things of life. He was a prince in
Sy lato whieh hfe, Seer ed a.

 Whedcleaaha nee | alty, His like we shall not soon -see
|again. It was a high privilege to
be numbered among his friends.

Mackenzie—~The Teacher

By DR. J. H. L. JOHNSTONE

O. E. SMITH Professor of Physics

 

He rose above the mean and petty

C. L. Bennet —
(Continued on page two)

When the writer entered Dalhousie
College, the late Dr. A. Stanley
Mackenzie has just completed three

and the next call to his Office was
eagerly awaited. It is not surprising that he was revered by his
students.

His outstanding! His class record book is as easily

read now as on the day it was written. It shows, for instance, that
during the session 1908-09 he lectured to eighty-one students in five
Separate classes and _ supervised
laboratory work as well. There was
little time left for research, but,
even so, if you passed his laboratory
windows late at night, the lights
were often burning. In all he did,
he was painstaking and thorough.
Shoddy work of every kind he abhorred, and woe betide the careless
or lazy student. His records often
show, “disqualified for poor work”.

When Mackenzie came to Dal
I was advised to register

From the be
chalk and
His bi-weekly confer
artistry with

We came away re
 

Mackenzie—the Teacher
(Continued on Page Two)

 

 
‘svA

ln

  
 

Printed by McCurdy Printing Co., Ltd., Argyle St.

 

Founded 1869. “The Oldest College Paper in America”

 

GAZETTE STAFF

 

Editor: BERNARD

GRAHAM  B-5033

News Editor: WALTER MURPHY B-5191

Sports Editor: DOUGLAS LYALL B-2607

Business Manager: SIDNEY A. GILLIES B-5487

ee Barbara Murray, Marjorie McLean, Gordon Hiseler
.

MEMORIAL ISSUE

_ Dr. A. 8. Mackenzie was a great man.

Although few of us

"students had the privilege of meeting Dr. Mackenzie, we have
all met with the results of his work on every side—in our
courses, in the buildings where we study, in the newer Dal
_ housie.

a great influence for the welfare of Dalhousie.

We recognize in Dr. Mackenzie’s death the passing of

Therefore it is

greece to this realization, as well as a sincere sympathy for
- all those who were connected with Dr. Mackenzie and who feel
his loss so greatly, that prompts us to dedicate the current issue
ot the Gazette to the memory of Dr. Arthur Stanley Mackenzie.

DR. R. J. BEAN,
Professor of Histology and Embryology:

My first contact with the late Dr.
A. S. Mackenzie came on a bright
August day in 1923 when Mrs. Bean
and myself were invited to confer
_ with him on the possibilities of my

appointment to the staff of Dal
housie. Conducted to his suite in
the Copley Plaza in Boston, we were
both instantly impressed by the tall
stately man who met us with a
smile. He made conversation easy
and for a full half hour we discussed
politics, religion, sports, and whatnot. Then, rather abruptly he
changed from this light discourse
and told us the story of Dalhousie.
He seemed sincerely disturbed by
the blight the Great War had left on

Dalhousie through the loss of so)
swe students and graduates.

He
- explained the circumstances under

' he _ which the Professional Schools had

 

1
”

been left on the doorstep of little
Dalhousie College, of their trials and
"tribulations, and finally, of his duty

to bring together and weld these

“components into a University. The
clearness with which he painted the
picture, his straightforward demeanor, his admission of both the
strength and weaknesses of Dal_housie was such, that when he in
_-yited me to pay a visit to Halifax
“at the expense of the University

before making a decision, I felt it
was quite unnecessary to accept the
invitation.
_ My next meeting with President
Mackenzie was on the evening of
the day of my arrival at Halifax.
He invited Mrs. Bean and myself to
his home, and there by the open
grate he sought to make us feel at
home, to acquaint us with Halifax
traditions. My confidence in him
steadily increased as I found conditions at the University and in the

___ ¢ity of Halifax, exactly as he had

described them. Like all successful
administrators he was criticised
from time to time by his staff.
Looking back, I now realize that it
was “A. Stan’s” determination to
_ bring the varied units of his institution into a university organization
that provided the basis for most of
such criticism. Each Faculty retained to some extent, the competitive attitude of earlier days. He
felt that he had to be the arbiter
and final judge.

Dr. Mackenzie could not be accused of wearing his heart on his
sleeve. Yet, none who had the opportunity to know him well, to diseuss frankly with him the vital
‘problems of Dalhousie, failed to find
the warm. sympathy and kindly
interest he had in the whole Dalhousie family. That he won the
respect of his staff was shown on the
even of his retirement when the
Dalhousie Senate unanimously
agreed | that at convocation but one
honorary degree be awarded, and
that, to Arthur Stanley Mackenzie.
Personally, Mrs. Bean and I regret
the passing of a true friend; we
cherish the memory of the genial
host who welcomed us into unfamiliar’ surroundings and who taught
us so much about Dalhousie.

 

DR. G. E. WILSON,

George Munro Professor of History

and Head of Department:

Ten years ago I would have found
it much easier to write an appreciation of Dr. Mackenzie than I do
today.

Ten years ago I would have
thought of him as the College President, strict in his sense of duty but
with none more strict than with
himself, absolutely devoted to the
interests of the university, an enemy
of humbug, self advertisement and
of intellectual dishonesty of every
kind. I thought of him as a man
who detested fads and short cuts,
who believed that salvation lay in
honesty and in hard work.

Time deepened my appreciation of
these qualities. However, it did
more. Behind a dignified and perhaps cold exterior I discovered how
deep and warm were his feelings. I
found that he was one of the most
loyal and trustworthy of men and
it is as such that I always wish to
remember him.

The University is never likely to
forget the man who did so much for
her during the twenty years that he
was President. Students who knew
him will always’ remember his tall
and stately figure but they will only
realize a small part of the story if
they forget that Dr. Mackenzie loved
Dalhousie with a loyalty and a devotion that was only the deeper
because it was never paraded. It
was part of the man himself.

J. L. HETHERINGTON,

Member, Board of Governors:

It is a sad privilege for me to bear
testimony to Dr. A. S. Mackenzie.

I had, of course, known him for
many years before 1920, but it was
in that year, when Dalhousie had
the million dollar campaign for
funds, that I became intimately acquainted with him.

At that time and since then, particularly since I became a member
of the Board of Governors, I formed
a great admiration for his great administrative capacity, his scholarship, and above all for his christian
courtesy.

He was what is sometimes called
a “Gentleman of the old school.”

A real friendship sprang up between us, cemented not only by frequent intercourse connected with the
life of the University, that meant
so much to him, but also, by less
serious but not less enjoyable occupations in pleasant social events, or
friendly rivalry on the golf course.
Many a round did we go with Harry
Mahon and Fred Pearson, both devoted workers for Dalhousie, and
both, alas, with us no more.

There was no more loyal Dalhousian than Stanley Mackenzie, no
more devoted worker and none who
accomplished more for the University which he loved so much and
which, in fact, was completely his
life.

He was a good friend, a good
Nova Scotian, a good Christian.

a
ew
eS

s

vx.uHOUSIE GAZETTE

DR. H. P. BELL,

Professor of Botany and

Head of Department of Biology:

Thirty-one years ago I raised my
head from a football scrum and
found “Stan Mackenzie” standing

beside us,discussing first team pos- |

sibilities with the President of the
D.A.A.C. I was a freshman, he was
the Professor who would be teaching
us Physics. During the six years
that followed he taught me, admonished me, passed me, helped me
in everything from setting up apparatus in the lab. to organizing the
Students’ Council, and finally capped
me for my degrees. The welcome he
gave me on returning from the War
was a practical one, namely a schol
arship. The reward he gave me for |

making good use of the scholarship

was a job. His advice to me when)

on the job was characteristic; he
said, “work”. For twenty years I
have gone to him for friendly discussions regarding my own work.

This last summer of 1938 was
typical of my summers during those
twenty years. The ‘work” was undertaken loyally on his advice, and
one of my student assistants was
paid from funds which Dr. Mac
 

 

kenzie, as a member of the Research |

Council, made available. I have lost
a wise Counsellor and a true friend.

DR. K. A. MacKENZIE,

Alumni Representative,
Board of Governors:

In the death of Dr. A. S. Mackenzie a great Dalhousian has passed away. I am pleased to be permitted to offer my testimony to the
high regard in which his memory is
held in respect to his great work
and charming personality. He took
a special pride and played a notable
part in the development of the medical school. From a struggling institution he used his best efforts to
build up a department of which we
are all proud. For twenty years he
guided its destiny, and when he retired from active work he had the
great satisfaction of leaving with
us a medical school which ranks
high among the medical schools of
this country. The present set-up is
a monument to his efforts.

As chairman of faculty and of
various committees he exhibited
those qualities of leadership and
sound judgment which have won
the admiration and respect of the
members of the medical faculty. To
have known him as an administrator and as a friend is to me a great
honor, a rare privilege, and a pleasant memory.

C. B. Nickerson—

(Continued from Page 1)

among the first and best. I feel sure
that Dr. Mackenzie would be quite
satisfied to leave such a record. His
achievements while President of
Dalhousie during some of the most
troubled years of its existence amply
justify such fame.

The very few of us, however, who
were privileged to know and to work
with Dr. Mackenzie during the critical years of his administration will
remember him more as a friend and
a leader during those times when
leadership and understanding were
all important.

For myself, I prefer him as he
was during those _ troublesome
periods following the Halifax Explosion and through the early years
of the Great War. Few Dalhousians
will realize how close we came to
going out of existence in 1917, I
happen to know that at that time
it was largely through the efforts
of Dr. Mackenzie that Dalhousie
continued to be.

A weaker man would have bowed
to what seemed to be the inevitable
but Mackenzie, by his personality
and his understanding, saw his way
through temporary obstacles, and
was able to visualize a real future
for Dalhousie. Surely such ability
marks him as a man of more than
ordinary educational achievements.

I can only add that, as I look back
over my early days of association
with Dalhousie, the figure of Mackenzie stands out clearly from all
others and it was from him that I
received my first idea of the importance of an ideal.

“A great man has gone—may his
memory be always an inspiration.”

 

 

 

 

 

October 14, 1938

 

DR. H. L. BRONSON,
Geearge Munro Professor of Physics
and Head of Department:

When I came to Dalhousie in 1910
as Dr. Mackenzie’s successor in the
Chair of Physics, I was at once
greatly impressed by the high academic standards, fine judgment and
resourcefulness which he had shown
in building up a sound, progressive
department of physics in spite of
very limited space and hopelessly inadequate funds.

It was not long, however, before
I began to see and feel the influence which he had exerted in the
University outside the physics department. He appeared to have been
the man of vision and the moving
spirit behind every recent forward
step at Dalhousie. It was this work
unobtrusively performed while he
was yet professor of physics, that

made possible the new campus at)
Studley and the new and greater |

Dalhousie, which he was destined to

build during his twenty years as)

President.

To work for twenty years with
and under such a man—administrator, scholar, gentleman, whom you
respected and admired; to know that
differences of opinion would not mar
or strain the most cordial personal
relations or prevent complete cooperation; to know that your chief
appreciated honest effort and valued
your friendship; to be able to consult him freely at all times and on
any problem, personal or otherwise,
and be certain of his sympathetic
help: this has been a rare and
prized privilege.

DR. H. L,. STEWART,

George Munro Professor of Philosophy
and Head of Department:

To the University of which he was
always so proud to be himself an

alumnus, Dr. A. S. Mackenzie rend- |
ered

service first with rare and
memorable skill as a teacher, afterwards for twenty years with wisdom,
administrative efficiency and constant vision for the future as
President. His memorial is not
merely in the records and visible
tokens of University growth, so
obvious to the eye; it is no less in
the affectionate and grateful remembrance of a multitude of Dalhousians everywhere.

 

Mackenzie, The Scientist—(continued from page one)
tation of Newton, Cavendish and
others. Before taking his Ph.D degree he joined the staff of Bryn
Mawr, where he remained until
coming to the chair at Dalhousie in
1905. During his stay there he
published papers on such subjects as
the vibrations of rods, the propagation of heat and spectrum analysis,
a diversity of topics testifying to his

grasp of classical physics.

As the new discoveries began to
be made at the turn of the century,
Dr. Mackenzie’s attention was turned to them. He spent part of a year
at the Cavendish Laboratory in
Cambridge under Sir J. J. Thomson.
A decade and a half later when the
writer, newly arrived at the Cavendish, was asked whence he came and
replied “Dalhousie”, the immediate
response on more than one occasion
was, “Why, that is where Dr. Mackenzie came from”. It is interesting
to note that it was he who made the
first measurement of the velocity
and mass of the alpha particles
from radium, particles which more
than any other have revolutionized
our ideas as to atomic structure.
Several pieces of work on the radiations from
were carried out by Dr. Mackenzie
in the old physics laboratory on the
second floor of the “Forrest Build
ing” under conditions which might
well intimidate the physicist of
| today.

When the call came to the Presidency he knew it meant the end of
his active scientific work and he
gave it up with regret. He was a
member of the National Research
Council of Canada from its inception in 1916 until he retired at his
own request a few months before
his death. He was also Chairman
of the Nova Scotia Economic Council from the beginning in 1936.
Through his unflagging efforts in
these bodies and through public addresses he continued to further the
interests of science and to give to
his country the benefit of his ripe
scientific experience and of his wise
counsel.

 

 

| him.

radioactive substances |

DR. E. GORDON YOUNG,

Professor of Biochemistry:

It is within the ability of few men
to be notable college presidents.
Some reach that level of distinction
by virtue of their deeds and some by
reason of their personality. In both
respects the memory of A. Stanley
Mackenzie will hover long about the
halls of Dalhousie because for Dalhousie he was a great man. He was
universally respected for his intellectual honesty, wisdom and foresight.
No alumnus could have been more
loyal. His life and success were inextricably woven with that of Dalhousie with lavish unselfishness. I
admired and respected him as president of our University for his
efficiency and democratic administration; and as a gentleman and
sportsman of rare personal charm

 

‘it was my privelege to know him.

DR. R. A. MACKAY,

Eric Dennis Memorial Professor of
Government and Political Science:

It is an honour to add my tribute
to the memory of Dr. Mackenzie.
Yet it is a sad task because of my
personal affection and respect for

of pre-1930 vintages affectionately
called him, is the last of that kindly
older generation of gentlemen and
scholars who set the tone for Dalhousie during the critical years
when it grew from college to university. Studley campus is his monument, but his contribution cannot
be measured by stone and mortar.

His greatest contribution was that
of character. His fine courtesy and
dignity, his canniness and caution,
his dislike of shams and pretence,
of bombast and display, his respect
for facts and solid achievements,
for sound learning and intellectual
honesty, these and other qualities of
his mind and character have left an
enduring mark upon the University.

It is for these qualities that ‘A.
Stan” will be remembered by those
who knew him. They are of more
importance in the life of a univer~
sity than buildings. May they never
be wanting at Dalhousie.

C. L. Bennet—

(Continued from Page 1)

 

self. Few men, especially in university life, have found so many who
were willing to say: “You have that
in your countenance which I would
fain call master... . Authority.”
And yet few have better maintained
the tradition of academic freedom.
His authority was seldom asserted,
for there was seldom need. His
watchword was “Duty” and he set
the highest standard for himself. In
the midst of great responsibilities
he exercised the most minute care

for detail and maintained a friendly

interest in the small concerns of
every day. On the few occasions

 

when, as a junior member of the
staff, I sought his advice, I found
him ready with help based on wide
experience, or in matters unfamiliar
to him, with an unerring and almost
intuitive gift of judgment. No problem was too small; no trouble was
too great.

To those who knew him in the
days of his power, he will remain in
memory as a symbol of the qualities
that made the tradition of Dal
housie: dignity, knowledge; wisdom;
justice.

 

 

 

‘A. Stan” as all Dalhousians |

 

 

“The purest form
in which tobacco
can be smoked.”

SWEET CAPORAL

; CIGARETTES

 

DR. E. W. NICHOLS,

McLeod Professor of Classics and
Head of Department:

With the passing of A. Stanley
Mackenzie, the old Dalhousie that so
many of us knew seems to have
vanished from the scene. He was
the last surviving teacher that we
had known as undergraduates.

I never knew him at all well until
I joined the Faculty in 1918. Then,
in common with the rest of his staff,
I learned that the dignified and
austere disciplianarian was a kindly
friend to us all. We had a much
smaller Faculty, even twenty years
ago, and it was easy for everybody
to know everybody else. We all
loved the old Dalhousie, and so did
Dr. Mackenzie; and we were all
proud of the new Dalhousie that he
was building. He never gushed over
anybody; but he was scrupulously
fair to his staff, and thought as
highly of their constitutional rights
as of his own. “There isn’t a man
on the staff who tries to earn his
pay” he once said to us at a college
gathering; and both the compliment
and the paradox were characteristic.

Most of our comment seems obvious. We know that for Dalhousie
his fame remains and will remain in
the hearts of men while the College
endures. All that we can do in
memory of him and in his honor is
to go on with our work as he went
on with his, and leave to the next
generation the same standards that
he and his generation left to us.

Mackenzie, The Teacher—
(Continued from Page 1)

housie, modern apparatus for teaching was almost non-existent. He
left the laboratory five years later
fairly well equipped for a small
college. It was characteristic of the
man to create enthusiasm in others,
and so he had the assistance of the
active Alumni Association of that
time. He also supplied some of the
funds from his own pocket. Not
only did he teach Physics in these
days at Dalhousie, but his hand was
felt in everything that pertained to
the good of the College, from student organizations to university
policy. When he left in 1910, the
feeling was universal that the College had lost one of its most outstanding professors.

In the five years during which he
was Professor of Physics at Dalhousie, a large number of students
who have since distinguished themselves passed through his hands—
E. J. Creighton, C. C, Wallace, H. S.
Davis, all 1851 Exhibition Scholars;
Fisncis Dawson and J. Mackerria,
Deans of Engineering faculties; D.
Stairs, G. Gaherty, the late J. F.
Gahan. G. H. Murphy, T. M. DeBlois
and R. McColough, all distinguished
engineers—to mention but a few.

He came back to his Alma Mater
for the third time in 1911 and became its president—the first graduate of the College to hold that position, and a worthy successor to
McCulloch, Ross and Forrest. Notwithstanding the great demands on
his time, he did not give up his first
love without a great struggle, and
for many years, much to everyone’s
delight, he continued to lecture on
his special branch of Physics until
pressure of other duties forced him
to give up teaching. A great loss to
Physics made possible the making
of modern Dalhousie.

 
   

     
  

= i i
s — +
ia ———
+ «
ee + a

oi
nt
...
- F
a

i
pare
‘i

at)

—— =
oy A

 
     
  
 

 

»
i
tial
re
; :
ct.
z ?
&
¥

"
=

as

 

  

me

ina

e i

 

Editor, Dalhousie Gazette.

Dear Sir—During recent weeks,
the world has been dismayed by the
spectacle of a man, apparently become intoxicated by repeated successes, following quickly on the heels
of each other, who seemingly could

not be diverted from following a

course of ruthless tyranny and oppression.

. Chaos was in the making. The
drums of the war-gods were rolling,
and all Europe was trembling on the
brink of a war such as would have

ad rocked civilization to its very depths,

and which catastrophe seemingly
could not be averted.

One man, however, saw. with
clear-visioned certainty the fallacy
of pursuing a course which would inevitably lead to war with all its
horrible consequences, and with
courage and determination, set out
to prevent its happening.

The world owes a debt to Neville
Chamberlain, Prime Minister of
England, who, with true English
tenacity, refused to admit the possibility that a peaceful settlement
could not be reached, and then by
the force of his own determination
and courage, proceeded to prove to
the world that he was right.

By the accord of Munich, we have
peace today, and millions of hearts

L throughout the world rejoice there
fore.

But the question in many minds
is: “Has a permanent peace been
established, or have the horrors of
war been averted only for a time?”
“How far can we trust Hitler, and
what degree‘ of dependence can we
have in a belief that the agreement
reached in Munich will be observed
in all its conditions by him?

One must admit, that there 1s
very little in the past history of this
man, since he came to power in 1933,
to instill confidence in that respect,
and the following examples of
breaches of treaties by Germany are
offered as further proof of this:

In a speech to the Reichstag on
May 17, 1933, Herr Hitler declared:
“No German government will of its
own accord break an agreement

which cannot be removed without be
ing replaced by a better one. Not
only the conqueror but also the con-quered party can claim the right aecord in the Treaty.” .

Germany left the League of Nations on November 12, 1933, and rejected the obligations of the Covenant. |

The first step by Hitler towards
repudiation of the Peace Treaty occurred in 1935, when it was announced that the German air force was
being reformed, contrary to Article
198 of the Peace Treaty:

“The armed forces of Germany

shall not include any military or
naval air forces.” On March 16th,
conscription was reintroduced in

Germany. Article 173 of the Peace
Treaty’ says:

“Universal compulsory military
service ‘shall be abolished in Germany.”

In April, Germany announced the
construction of submarines. This
was a breach of Article 191 of the
Peace Treaty.

On March 7, 1936, German troops
marched into the demilitarized zone
of the Rhineland. This is in defiance of Article 1 of the Locarno
Treaty of 1925.

On November 14, 1936, Germany
announced full sovereignity over
German rivers and the Kiel Canal,
contrary to Articles 311 and 380 of
the Peace Treaty.

Austria’s independence was guaranteed by the Peace Treaty and the
Treaty of St Germain. Hitler de¢lared on May 21, 1935, that:

“Germany neither intends nor
wishes to interfere in the internal
affairs of Austria, to annex Austria,
or to conclude an “Anschluss.” Regardless of these guarantees, Austria was seized by German troops
on March 11, 1938.

It is with regret that the
Dalhousie Gazette records the
death of Dalhousie’s second
oldest graduate, Dr. Alexander

Lippincott, who passed away
Sept. 23rd, in Nice, France, at
the age of 91.

 

ale uel gp gear ialilpteessae ama tetpstienens anatiigepenete iia etiinaiiaalagimaieti pa tid RE
em

eee aaa..."

SOCIETIES

NEWMAN CLUB

The Newman Club was established
at Dalhousie University in the year
1919, for the purpose of bringing in
closer contact the Roman Catholic
Students of the University and to
promote their religious and social
interests. This Club is an International Organization, being founded
by Cardinal 8ewman, At the larger
universities they have their own
home and regular initiations, but
at Dalhousie we are not so fortunate
as the number of Catholic Students
attending the University is small
and their financial resources limited.

The executive consists of a Presisident, 2nd Vice-President, Secretary
and Treasurer, whose duties are
those of any other society. A person to become a member must pay
a fee of one dollar, which is utilized
to pay for Communion Breakfasts
held at regular intervals during the
College year.

The activities outside of the above
are limited to a dance, play and
regular monthly meetings at which
addresses are delivered by prominent
citizens. ;

In spite of its limited membership
the Club has long enjoyed the
reputation of being one of the outstanding societies on the campus,
and it is commonly felt that its existence is more than justified and
that it will continue to be a vital
part of Dalhousie University.

 

 

THE NEWFOUNDLAND CLUB

The Newfoundland Club, is the
only institution at Dalhousie that
embraces in its membership students
of other city colleges viz, Nova
Scotia Technical College, Mount St.
Vincent and St. Mary’s College. In
addition the Club is comprised of
Newfoundland nurses in training and
any Newfoundlander young or old
who resides in Halifax. With this in
mind, the organization goes under
the constitutional name of “The
Newfoundland Club of Halifax”. Its
objects are threefold:

1. To bring together Newfoundlanders of this city and to encourage
goodfellowship among them.

2. To foster love of home land.

3. To promote the interests of
Newfoundlanders in Halifax.

Regular meetings are held at least
once a month. At these meetings
which are held in the Arts’ Building
an interesting and enjoyable program of debates, lectures, sing-song
etc., is carried out. It is the duty
of the Social Committee to direct in
so far as they are able, the social
life of the members during the
Christmas vacation, by arranging a
program of activities for that period
to meet general accord. As a suitable conclusion to the Club’s year, the
last meeting is in the form of a
banquet at one of the city hotels.

The club is still in its infancy
having just completed its second
year. In this short period however,
rapid strides have been made, both
in total membership and enthusiasm
and with the inception of the new
scholastic term, the new executive
has high hopes of an even more
successful and vigorous year than
last.

Notices of meetings will appear in
the Gazette—watch for them.

 

Germany and France agreed to a
proposal of non-intervention in
Spain. However, documents published by the Spaniish governmert
have proven that German airmen,
technicians, etc., have taken part ir
the war, and German airplanes,
munitions, and the like have been
supplied to the Insurgents.

The German government issued a
decree on February 18, 1937, forbidding the departure of volunteers
from Germany to Spain. The Spanish government has proved that this
has not been carried out.

No better “summing-up” of the
effects of this disregard of promises
could be found than in the words of
Anthony Eden, who said that they
had constituted “a severe blow at
that principle of the sanctity of
treaties which underlies the whole
structure of international relations.

It would be both unwise and impractical for this writer to attemps
at this time to prophesy as to the
outcome of this splendiid attempt on

a ee re gene i eg ecient i A a A
Sane = - 2 NN  eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeaeeeeeeeeeeeeeEE————EEEEeEEEEOEeeEEeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

THE TRUMPETER

Oh mad, sweet March, come lift your strident trumpet
To your lips, and herald in the Spring,

Your tender child. Come wake her from her dreams.
Come drench the grasses with your perfumed bounty,
And bend the slender tree-tops till they brush

Your green-clad hills. Caress the sun-drooped flower,
The crocus, and coax her from her lair, oh sing

In glamorous joy, until the very flowers

Peer above the rich brown earth in wonder,

Until the snowdrop rings her milk white bells

In glee. Come, shout with joy!

Come scatter autumn leaves, oh winds of March,
Leaves once embedded in deep winter snow,

Free now to whirl away on wings of March

Into the wide, wide world to spread the news

Of Spring.

DOG

O that man could ‘call you dog, but then

No one has seen us, you and I, outstrip
The wind. With eager feet we run, for joy,
To drop upon a mossy hillock where you
Sniff with keen delight, approaching spring;
And beauty moves in every noble line.

Your coat that’s burnished by Apollo’s gleams
Is clustered, curling, by the wind. Oh soul
Of a Walkure, (You must have a soul,

For what, in you, responds to every mood?
What spirit lightens in your eyes, those pools
Of limpid brown that glow with fire divine) ?
Since first you came wriggling in puppy glee,
You were a second sense to every thought

I had, strange silent creature, men call dog.

 

LAMENT, OR IT HAPPENS TO THE BEST OF US

I’m just a quiet native

And I’m homesick for my shack;

I’ve done my war-dance nicely

Up and down and back.

The chieftain’s very proud of me,

He says I done it swell;

And I’m all worn out as well.
“Aenemic” says my witch-doctor,
“Droopy” says my wife;

Anyway I’m sick to death

Of my razzle-dazzle life.

I long for my corn-mush lunch

And my coat of tropic tan

And my offspring screaming at me,

Could it be I’m just a family man?

Post Mortem Larry '46

Oh once I had a setter pup,
(A mighty pup was he).
He got his edjicashun

In the university.

 

He took eight years to graduate
(No wavy brain had he).

He got his edjicashun

In the college by the sea.

Oh Larry was a Freshman
(Freshman bold was he).

He wasn’t bothered by the rules
For he got off Scot-free.

Oh Larry wore a “bortar-moard”
(A splendid sight was he).
But trip he did upon his gown,
Receiving his degree.
He followed me to school one day

(No stay at home was he).
And, much to my confusion,
He crashed the ’lumnae Tea.

And now he’s left this life, I fear,
In shame and misery,

From contracting edjicashun

He didn’t wear a green beret In the university.
(A Freshman bold was he).

His two ears grew too near his eyes |
For any hat, you see.

 

Author’s Note: All characters
'and events in the foregoing jingle
| are entirely fictitious. Any libel suits
will be completely ignored. Larry
ee answer for himself,

Oh Larry was a Sophomore
(A lady’s man was he).

And much too much in demand,
For any devotee.

 

Notice
The following is the copy of a, Council of the Students. Mr. S. G.
letter that has been sent to many of | Mackenzie is the President for the
the merchants in Halifax. It is now year 1938-1939.

brought formally to the attention of | The Council of the Students will

the Student Body, and they are ask-| assume no liability for payment for
ed to observe its ruling.
“Dear Sirs: 3

This is to remind your firm that

 

presentation of-such an order properly filled in.

 

service for the Gouncil of the Stu-| and to quote always on the invoices
dents, or for any student society | the numbers of all orders for which
under the authority of the Council charge is being made. I am enclosof the Students, or for any indivi- ing a copy of a standard order form
dual and charged to the account of

accompanied by a standard order
form. This form must be filled in
with the name of the firm, the name
of the person to whom delivery is to
be made, the place of delivery and
the list of items and quantities, the
date and the number of the order.
The order must be signed by the
officer of the society issuing the order and countersigned by M. M., Permanent Secretary-Treasurer,
ankin, Permanent Secretary-Treas- Council of the Students,
urer, or by the President of the! Dalhousie University.”

a
the part of Britain’s Prime Minister | honor” or merely the temporary
to insure a permanent world peace. postponement of the horrors of
Time alone will tell whether the ac-| war.
cord of Munich was “peace with

filling orders.

The Council of the Students asks
your cooperation in making the system a success and thus eliminating
for all concerned, the numerous
difficulties which have arisen in the
past,

Yours very truly,
MURRAY RANKIN,

 

— E. M.

goods except those delivered after |

We ask you to render |
all orders of merchandise or for accounts at the end of each month |

[ar your reference and ask you to|
the Council of the Students, must be | accept only the white original in|

 

 
       
     
 

 

Page Three

 

Campus Comment Freshetiquette

A spot of advice for all you freshettes!

Take heed, my dears, ’cos our
Hattie says t’other day she found
herself in Political Science VIII,
when she was supposed to have
been in Elementary Latin. She says
it was a little different from what
she expected Latin to be like. However, she struggled through and
managed to look passably intelligent—so she says—at least, we
don’t mean to doubt her word at
all. She seems to find it somewhat
trying to ask just any stooge‘ where
things are!’

 

SLANG IS KEY TO NEW
LANGUAGE

Archaeologists in the year 6939
while digging among ruins on a site
of land near what was once called
Flushing Bay will find a seven foot
2 inch torpedo-shaped shell of hard
metal alloy. Breaking open the shell
they will find three spools of cellulose.

Holding the spool-windings to the
light they will see pictures of life
of five centuries past and ancient
printing. This remarkable aluminum torpedo was buried last week
on the ground of the New York
World’s Fair,

The collection of Americana of
the year 1938 which is being preserved for the future is a strange
one. Most remarkable item is that
of the dictionary of slang.

Many Americans and almost every
Englishman believe that the so-called American “slang” is creating an
imperfect and cluttered English
language. Those who chose the dictionary of slang for the Time Capsule recognize that much of American slang is the key to slow forma
Going to the great rugby game
Saturday last she kept wondering
why all the people behind her were
yelling “Acadia” and why all the
people across the field were shouting “Dalhousie’’.

When we told her that the good
old Alma Mater had won she looked mournful and said comfortingly
that she hoped Dal would win next
time.

She put her telephone number on
her placard, and are the other girls
burned up!

 

 

tion of a different kind of English
and the theme of a fast moving Welcome Back
civilization.
—Syracuse Daily Orange. Meet Your
College Friends
at

And speaking of fashions this
wear your hair high craze produces, |
at least in one male we know well,
the general lanscape effect for a
drive for Be Kind to Birds Week.

—MeGill Daily.

BLAKELEY’S
The Best Place to Eat
43 SPRING GARDEN ROAD

 

 

 

 

 

Something New ||'|| It’s a Pleasure
Birks now offer a
cresting service adaptable to practically any
article in their stock.
Ring's, compacts, cigarette cases, lighters, a
host of gifts may all
be had with the Dalhousie crest attached.

HENRY BIRKS AND
SONS LIMITED

Diamond Merchants
Halifax, N. S.

You'll find this a pleasant place to dine, lunch
or quench your thirst,

and the prices are reasonable,

| The
Green Lantern
407-409 Barrington St.

 

 

   

_ STUDENTS DESIRING SPECIAL SIZ

8 IN |
LETTER CASES __

can have them made to their own specifications at

KELLYS LTD.

118 Granville Street

 

 

Our advert'sers are Halifax’ best merchants—patronize them.

 
   

 

- Murder

 

By the Gazette b Wheweuntse Critic

Paton Williams is not a parti- eularly profound writer nor an artist

any means but his writing conedie certain qualities which lift him

- above the mob.

Realizing his limited talents he
doesn’t reach to the heights but rather is content to entertain. His “A
Has Been Arranged’ is
highly entertaining. It has various
weaknesses but the intricate situa
tions are handled with a fair amount

Re
Si
«ll aes

ie od

  
 
   
     
 

+
"7

“\
rr.
fs =
cS

Pd Let

4

Ary ,

deeper and darker.

_ly, we have never heard an audience
2 te behave worse, and with sincere reoe grets we report the so-called upper
* _ classmen were the worst offenders.

ae *
. f

ef adroitness.

The weakest point of the piece
was the dismal ending. Throughout
the whole third act he works himself into an abyss which grows
Possibly the
suicide of Maurice Mullins was his
only outlet, but nevertheless he
makes a mistake when he brings it

hs about.

When a writer creates characters
he must realize that an audience
will like some and dislike others.
Sir Charles was a stupid boor and
Mullins with his diabolical cleverness
was hugely interesting. When Sir

Charles gained a victory with the

death of Mullins we felt rather saddened. He was the more interesting
of the two and his brains deserved
victory.

The work, trivial though it was,
seemed far above the audience.
Though the statistical department of
the Gazette can’t find the figures we

rather imagine that the average I.Q.

of Dalhousie students is not far
from moronic. The asininity and
childishness displayed by the poor
bewildered fools on Friday night
was enough to wreck the ambitions
of any Glee Club Executive. Frank
‘The east for the most part were
: | With a play built entirely on
ae an sudience in
sa play idk up ‘its own “need and
tO" a large extent destroyed the
subtlety of some of the situations.

- Direction shone quite clearly
through the clouds of mediocre

_ writing. The second act lags a bit

but the pacing of the dialogue more
than accounted for it.

There were some smart pieces of
dialogue, which were entirely lost on
the unknowing audience. Particularly did we like Mullins’ “Hello” to
North at various intervals. Incidentally North’s natural stupidity
was a bit overdone.

Mrs. Wragg was exceptionally
well done with a few minor exceptions, including obvious nervousness
in the first act with a resultant loss
of accent.

Mullins’ monologue in the second
act was the finest piece of writing
and acting in the whole play, followed closely by the acting of the
rather weird and unreal creature in
violet who made some dramatic entrances and the freshmen’s hair
stand on end. Miss Morrison was
very effective.

The rest of the cast was of a very
high standard and only more convinced us that with such acting,
polite comedy and murder mysteries
of genus English shoudl be left in
“Mayfair where they belong and an
attempt made reproducing some of
the fine works of the Américan or
Trish dramas.

~ Notice in “The Sheaf” (U of Sask.)

SENIORS:
“If you have not yet seen this

paper call at the Sheaf Office and
_- you may have one.”

(The editor of “The Sheaf” is un
_ doubtedly of Irish descent.)

FRESHIE - SOPH DANCE
Tonight at 8.30
DAL GYMNASIUM

Jerry Naugiler’s Orchestra
Refreshments.

 

 

 

   

 

Mount Allison, 6; Dal, 0

Riding high after their victory
over Acadia on Saturday, the Tigers
were taken for a fall by Mount Allison at Sackville on the holiday by
the score of 6-0. Mount Allison
scored two tries in the first period,
neither of which were converted.
Many of the team suffered injuries
—the most serious being that of
Kent Irwin who will be lost to the
team for Saturday’s game against
the Wanderers.

If the team is not weakened by
injuries it is capable of beating the
Wanderers and sure to do so if they
play the way they did the first few
minutes against Acadia. We refuse
to predict a defeat for Dalhousie
but neither will we go so far as to
predict a victory over Wanderers.
The play will be closer and more
rugged than against Acadia and so
the match will be all the more
interesting.

Acadia seconds, 14; Cubs, 3

The Cubs were no match for the
Acadia second team. Though the
scrum controlled the ball as much as
Acadia the backfield either threw it
away or were smothered by the
Acadia line who ran all over them,
scoring four tries, one of which was
converted. The Cubs scored just be| fore the game ended on the only line
run they made all day ending with
Kinley going over in the corner.
Cubs line-up:

Forwards — Sinclair, McGregor,
Tupper, Anderson, Murray, Vail,

Ball; Halves — McIntosh, Murphy,

Koretsky; Three-quarters — Rankin,

\ Smith, Swansburg; Fullback—Kini ley, MacKean.

~

 

; >
Notices
MANAGERS WANTED—
Applications for the position of:
1. Manager of the hockey team.
2. Manager of the swimming
team.
8. Manager of the badratetort |
team,
4. Assistant - manager
basketball team.
should be made to Walter Lawson, secretary of the D. A. A.C.,
before midnight of Saturday, October 15, 1938.

of the

 

STUDENTS’ DIRECTORY—
Notify the University Office, before 12 o’clock, October 15, of any
change in your address or telephone |
number since Registration, if you)
want to be represented correctly in

 

the Students’ Directory.

 

AT HOME—

President and Mrs. Carleton Stanley will be at home to all new
students in the various Faculties of
the University, Sunday, October 16,
4-6 p.m., 24 Oxford Street.

HALF-HOLIDAY

Wednesday afternoon, October 19,
has been declared by the Senate to
be a half holiday, for the purpose
of holding a track meet and for the
football game between Mt. A. and
Dal,

N.B. The classes normally held
on Wednesday afternoon, October 19,
will be held on Tuesday afternoon,
October 18, and the classes normally
given Tuesday afternoon will be cancelled for the afternoon. Wednesday morning and Tuesday morning
classes will be held as usual. This
change in the order of classes affects
the Arts, Science, Commerce and
Engineering Faculties only.

 

Delta Gamma:

The first meeting of Delta Gamma, the Dalhousie Girl’s Society,
will be held at 8.00 Monday, Oct. 24,
at Shirreff Hall. a meeting will
be the official welcome gathering for
the Freshettes,

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

TIGERS WHITEWASH AXEMEN

DAL, 16; ACADIA, 0

 

Combining a
with a really beautiful passing display, the Dal. Tigers steamrolled to
a 16-0 victory over the Acadia Axemen on Saturday last. From the
opening whistle the black and gold
team showed too much punch for
the Wolfville boys. Less than five
minutes after kick-off, Sid Paulker
made the first try, resulting from a
pretty passing attack by the Dal.
three-quarter line. The try was not
converted, Before the end of the first
half Dal. power and passing again
resulted in a score. Jo-jo Feindel
made the try which was converted
by Bus Phillips.

In the second half Paulker and the
three-quarter line combined for another score. It was not converted.
Shortly after this Henry Ross crossed the Acadia line for the final score.
Phillips made the convert with a
lovely kick.

Our team last Saturday played
great football. Captain Kent Irwin,
Reg Eaton, and Hutchins were the
spark plugs and produced first class
football. Vic Haines’ kicking was
outstanding. Every man on the
team deserves credit for the fine
showing of the Black and Gold.

Acadia went down fighting. They
gave of their best but with only four
experienced men on the team, the
Tiger machine was too much for
them. For Acadia, Abe Cohen, Les
Baine, Cameron and Myers were outstanding with brilliant individual
work.

The Dal. Band sounded better this
year. Congratulations boys—Saturday’s rendition of “O Canada” was
the best in three years. More noise
from the Dalhousie bleachers would
help the team along. So let’s have
more life next Saturday.

This year’s team, despite the defeat by the Mounties, will give
Wanderers and Acadia a great battle
for City League honors. The team
has power to spare and the boys
know how to pass that ball. Student
support is what they need. With it
and continued good football ,this|
year’s machine may surpass the performances of former Black and Gold
teams.

The line-ups:

Dalhousie — Fullback, Haines;
three-quarters, Ross, Paulker, Feindel, Hutchins; halves, Irwin, Eaton,
Veniot; forwards, Ideson, Storey, |
| Kerr, Smith, Phillips, Mitchell, Mc- |
Kimmie, Davis.

Acadia — Fullback, Baine; threequarters, Ideson, Wilson, Cameron,
Troke; halves, Myers, Cohen, Patillo; forwards, Gillespie, Jordan, Miller, Foshay, Tupper, Sutherland,
Venicombe.

 

Newfoundland Club:

 

The Newfoundland Club will hold
a meeting at 3 o’clock, Sunday afternoon, October 16, in the Men’s Common Room, Arts’ Building.

The Finest
Sporting Goods

and

MUSICAL SUPPLIES

May Be Obtained at
PHINNEY’S

‘Vhinney,

 

Girls’ Sports

Our tennis team is still keeping

smashing attack} UP its good work as was seen by

those who saw them come and
conquer last Saturday at Acadia.
Although the Acadia squad at first
had the edge over the Dal team the
Yellow and Black did finally come
through with a score of 8-10 in our
favor. Next week the team goes to
Mount Allison at Sackville, New
Brunswick, for the Maritime Intercollegiate Tennis Championship. We
hope to keep the cup as in former
years.

Miss Wray started ground hockey
practice Tuesday, and from now on
there will be three practices a week.

The much talked of gym classes
have already started and everyone
seems much happier about them.
This year it. isn’t necessary for
freshettes to attend more than one
gym. class. a-.week if they play
games. One reason for the interest
is the new M. A. tests. Maybe you
think M, A. stands for Master of
Arts? . It doesn’t. It means Motor
Ability. This test is somewhat like
a physical I. Q., and the work done
in gym classes will be based upon
the results of these tests.

Another reason for the interest is
new gym uniforms. And don’t the
girls think they look cute in these!
A lot of the girls have ordered them.

FOR THE RECORD

Tuesday, October 11:
Margaret Macdonald was elected
Secretary-Treasurer of Shireff Hall.

Tuesday, October 11:

Walter Murphy was elected PostGraduate Representative on the Students’ Council.

Thursday, October 13:
The Freshmen elected their class
officers:
Pres.—Ralph Karsh
Vice-Pres.—Helen Rodgers
Sect’y—Joan Ballem
Treas.—John McInnis

(Already |
elected).

 

Tennis Results

Ladies’ Singles: Dal, 1; Acadia, 4
J. Crease, Acadia, defeated C. Sullivan, Dal, 6-2, 6-4; T. Stevens,
Acadia, defeated Z. Lintletter, Dal,
6-2, 7-5; A. Croft, Acadia, defeated
I. Jentz, Dal, 3-6, 8-6, 6-2; D. Isley,
Acadia, defeated J. Anderson, Dal,
6-1, 6-8; M. Allen, Dal, defeated E.
DeWitt, Acadia, 6-4,7-5.

 

Men’s Singles: Dal. 3; Acadia, 2

R. Morton, Acadia, defeated G.
Hennigar, Dal, 4-6, 6-3, 6-3; K. Garten, Dal, defeated B. Wilson, Acadia,
8-6, 0-6, 6-1;R. Dimock, Dal, defeated G. DeWitt, Acadia, 6-2, 3-6, 6-2;
W. Thomas, Dal, defeated L. Williams, Acadia, 6-1, 6-2; L. Brannen,
Acadia, defeated A. Mercer, Dal, 1-6,
6-2, 6-4,

 

Ladies’ Doubles: Dal, 1; Acadia, 1
J. Crease and T. Stevens, Acadia,
defeated C. Sullivan and J. Pentz,
Dal, 6-0, 6-2; Z. Linkletter and J.
Anderson, Dal, defeated A. Croft
and E. DeWitt, Acadia, 6-0, 6-1.

 

Men’s Doubles: Dal, 2; Acadia, 0

G. Hennigar and K. Garten, Dal
defeated B. Wilson and G. DeWitt,
Acadia, 8-6, 5-7, 6-1; R. Dimock and
W. Thomas, Dal, defeated L. Williams and R. Morton, Acadia, 8-6
4-6, 6-4.

?

 

Mixed Doubles: Dal, 3; Acadia, 1

B. Wilson and J. Crease, aaa
defeated G. Hennigar and Z. Linkletter, Dal, 6-2, 6-4; K. Garten and
C. Sullivan, Dal, defeated G. DeWitt
and T. Stevens, Acadia, 7-5, 6-1; R.
Dimock and J. Pentz, Dal, defeated
R. Morton and D. Ilsley, Acadia,
9-7, 6-4; W. Thomas and J. Anderson, Dal, defeated L. Williams and
A. Croft, Acadia, 6-2, 6-2.

THOMAS WALLACE
SONS and DAUGHTERS
SIGHT SPECIALISTS

Eyes Tested — Glasses Made
“Tf You Want to See Well See Wallace’’
Y.M.C. Av BLDG. HALIFAX

 

   

 

 

 

   

FOR
BETTER CLEANING

SUITS
COATS
HATS
GLOVES

Special Rates to Students
Our BETTER method assures
BETTER results.

PHONE L-2323

LIMITED

  

 

Cousins

——————————————SSSSSSSSSSSSSS
MASTER- CLEANERS ‘AND DYERS.

   

sTUDEN! S

Have YOU tried the
special Students Laundry Service offered by
the Halifax Steam Laundry? It’s really “Tops”.
The very finest, completely finished laundering at a price that will
save you real money.

TELEPHONE L-2309

HALIFAX
STEAM LAUNDRY

 

FARMERS’ CHOCOLATE MILK

is so popular

made with full cream milk.

“Taste the difference”

FARMERS’ LIMITED

 

Halifax

Our advertisers are Halifax’ best merchants—patronize them.

 

 

 

 

| Monday, ‘Tuesday, Wednesday

because it is

October 14, 1938

COUNCIL
PASSES
BUDGETS

Wednesday night the Students’
Council granted the budgets presented by D.A.A.C., Gazette and Glee
Club, in a session that ran past midnight, but which featured none of
the hurly-burly so characteristic of
similar meetings in previous years.
Delta Gamma’s budget was postponed until a later meeting, because
of the absence of sufficient data on
the basketball item of $200.00.

D.A.A.C., represented by Tom
Sheehan, received $3,907.55 of the
students’ money. Sheehan’s presen
 

| tation was featured by a request for

the gate receipts pulled in by D.A.
A.C. games. His request was not
granted. The Gazette, represented
by Sid Gillies, walked away with
$691.00. The Glee Glub, represented
by Johnnie Morrison and the Executive en masse, received $776.26. The
Glee Club’s original request was for
budget some three hundred dollars,
which would include a presentation
of the “Mikado” for Munro Day.

Sodales was not represented at the
meeting.

AS A LAWYER MIGHT SEE IT

Diminutive Bo-Peep, shepherdess,
hereafter to be called the aforementioned let pass from her control
one herd of sheep and the appendages thereof. The aforementioned
cannot ascertain or determine the
place, district or county wherein
they may me. Hence she, the aforementioned is advised to abstain from
pursuing the said sheep in the hope
that the said sheep will revert to the
aforementioned complete with ap
’| pendages.

Gym Classes:

Hand in your time tables to Miss
Wray so that she can get the upperclass physical activities started.

IF you have a
THIRST

for a hot or cold drink
and a tasty “snack”
then it’s

Fader’s
SNACK BAR
for you.

23 COBURG ROAD

NEW GAIETY

THEATRE

Sane NE

Thursday, Friday Saturday
“GOD’S COUNTRY AND
THE WOMAN”
and
“Here’s Ss Flash _ Casey”

    

 

 

 

 

“PENROD AND SAM”
and
“SLAVE SHIP”
ON THE STAGE
MISSOURI CHARLIE’S
RADIO REUBES

Adults 
15c © 30c

 

 

   
 
 
  
    
 
  
    

WALLACE BROS
SHOES

take pride in presenting
the NEW FALL SHOES
for Men and Women...

Popularly Priced
Smartest Styles
Expert Fitting

Wallace Bros.
Limited
415 Barrington St.

New Address: Green Lantern Bidg.

 
