 
     

VOL. LXXI

Arts & Beichce Supreme
MacKean Rejoices

 

The passing of amendments to the
Students’ Council constitution concerning the Arts and Science Society,
the acceptance of a report from the
Student Gym Committee, the unanimous approval of a resolution endorsing the C.S.A. petition to the
Canadian Government and the unanimous disapproval of the Wurlitzer
for Gymnasium dances were the
results of a most. enthusiastic
Student Forum in the Chemistry
Theatre, Thursday.

The most popular resolution was:

“That this meeting go on record
as disapproving of the use of the
Wurlitzer at the dances which follow Glee Club Shows and that

We recommend that said Wurlitzer
not be used again at these or any
dances usually sponsored by the
Council of Students, viz.: Munro Day
tea dance, and student council dance
at or near opening of the autumn
term’’,

Moved by Lloyd Dalton it was
seconded by Bernard Graham in
order to prevent “the destruction of
the Wurlitzer by a group of stu
ARTS AND SCIENCE—
(Continued on page 3)

 

be The Law Courts

 

An appeal from conviction on a

i" murder charge was allowed at the

sitting two weeks ago by a bench
consisting of Hirsch, Lithwick, LL.
J.. and Baggs, L.CJ. W. ‘Buss”
Phillips, K.C., quietly convinced
their Lordships Baggs and Lithwick
that the fact that his client was
charged with murder through the
unfortunate results of a practical
joke was a ground for acquitting
the prisoner at the bar. Her Ladyship Ann Hirsch gave judgment in
favour of the conviction but was
over-ruled by the majority.

The facts of the case are briefly

LAW COURTS—
(Continued on page 3)

 

BENNETT SHIELD
DEBATES

 

The annual series of Bennett
Shield Debates gets under way next
week and an interesting renewal of
ancient rivalries is expected. On
Tuesday Room 3 will resound to the
wordy warfare of the Frosh and the
Sophs, who come to grips over the
subject, “Resolved that we should
give the American continent back
to the Indians”. The Frosh, evidently not so young as to be free from
modern disillusionment, will assert
the affirmative of this resolution on
grounds ,it is presumed, of elementary justice and will moot such a
course as the simplest solution to
many of our pressing problems.

The staid Sophs will stoutly uphold the negative, ready to beat off
any such revolutionary suggestion
advanced by young and inexperienced radicals: “What Indians?”
they will ask.

The Juniors and Seniors, preferring to keep even discussion between them on a lofty and artistic
plan in keeping with their dignity
as upper classmen and women, will
debate pro and con, “Resolved that
swing is the highest form of musical expression.” The scene of this
titanic struggle will likewise be
Room 8 and the date Thursday,
Feb. 9.

 

 

PHAROS EDITORS

George Corston—Sports Editor

One of Dalhousie’s prominent
sportsmen, George has consistently
stood for the betterment of sport
at Dalhousie. He feels, this year,
there has been a definite upward
trend in student interest, on the
field, on the ice, in the Gym and in
general sportsmanship on the campus. New sports have been added,
old ones have been revived. George
presents in his section a new and
greater Dalhousie in the field of
sport.

Will all applicants for the 1939
M.A. and M.Sc. degree please leaves
their names with either Pete Nicholson or Joan Blackwood, so _ that
arrangements may be made for their
appearance in the Year Book. ... .

  

= wlll
i Bee

   
    

HALIFAX, N. S., FEBRUARY 3, 1939

 

Clary Gosse—Editor
George Murphy—Feature Editor

George Murphy, who states that
1938-39 marked a new high in college years. Off to a running start
with the Dalhousie Centennial Reunion in 1938, a marked increase in
pace was noted in all phases of
college activity. Registration was
up, societies flourishing, sports at a
high level, and a new widened horizon of Dalhousie interest and influence as evidenced in prominent
visitors and alumni activity.

Pharos ’39 reflects this upswing
and presents Dalhousie to Dalhousians.

In his department George features
some informal side-glances of Dalhousie 739, some comic, some almost
tragic, but all interesting views of
student thought and action during
the year.

PICTURES—PROOFS

The absolute deadline for graduation pictures and proofs is February
8th. If you have not already done so,
the Editors of Pharos ask that students co-operate IMMEDIATLY.

“We (the students) want Pharos
this year on Munro Day.”

 

Relief Discussed
By Mutchmoor

“Canada is in the kindergarten
stage in the field of social security,”
said Rev. J. R. Mutchmoor on Mon
day afternoon to a meeting of the
Sociology Club. The President,
Allan Barrett, introduced the speaker, who is Secretary of the Board of
Evangelism and Social Service of
the United Church of Canada. Since
1931 Canada has spent one billion
dollars on relief, and the problem
remains unsolved. The board of
which Mr. Mutchmoor is a member
made a survey of conditions in
Canada and is presenting the following recommendations:

The municipalities should be the
major aid-givers. Ottawa should not
contribute more than 15%. To enable the municipalities to do this, the
Federal government should take over
one hundred million dollars of city
debts. Farm relief should be encouraged if marginal farms are
used. Old age pensions and Mother’s
Allowances should be contributory,
making a drastic change in the
hand-out system used at present.
Youth training should be encouraged.
Unemployment insurance is a necessity: 5/12 of the money should come
from the employer, 5/12 from employee, and 2/12 from the state.

Mr. Mutchmoor gave some interesting figures on relief in Halifax.
5,062 received direct relief to which
the Federal Government contributed
in 1936, and about the same number
in 1937. Recipients of direct relief
were 553,000 in Canada in 1938, the
reduction coming largely in the
West. Urban industrial centres remain depressed areas.

 

 

Music Club?

Symphony Orchestra, Band, and
Choral. Society will be united into a
single organization—a Musical Society, — if negotiations now under
Way materialize. The new Society
would take complete charge of the
musical end of Glee Club productions, while the Glee Club would
become almost exclusively a playproducing and executive body. So
said Johnny Morrison, President of
Glee Club in a statement issued
Wednesday night.

It is expected that the Musical
Club will unify and strengthen the
efforts of each of the three organizations. A member of the staff of the
Halifax Conservatory of Music,
which is affiliated with Dalhousie
University, has shown great interest
in the project, and has offered his
services in directing the new Musical
Society. Plans already laid include
the preparation of the music for
“Twelfth Night”, which is scheduled
for some time in February, and a
presentation of each of the three
departments of the Society at one
of the Connolley Shield nights. Plans
for the formation of the Society
will come before the Students’ Council Sunday.

 

 

Libel at Toronto

 

Toronto, Ont. — Offended by remarks made about them by a feature
writer of The Varsity, the president
and vice-president of the Swing Club
intend to issue a writ of summons
charging defamatory libel. They are
suing for damages amounting to one
double pass to the Victoria College
At-Home. The Moot Court has consented to try the case.

r
- .
‘4
rei) - t .
- vet ’ *— J
a oA aE
i - Pm ~
a, . a
Pet
Sess
ee ee
spins lim iy spt mss tg ig tii nl ig te ie tie amare Reema nia

—— Eee ee aaa...

U. B. C. Suffers Loss
$2,200 By Fire

Vancouver, B. C., Feb. 1st—C. U. Will Glee Club Follow
Frosh Lead?

In protest against the Wurlitzer,
the Freshman class hired an orchestra to ensure the success of their
show last Wednesday night. This is
the first time that music has been
provided by an individual society
for a Glee Club dance. “Sally Spry”,
(a one-acter) and musical selections,
a monologue, and a sing-song were
other features of the evening.

Dave Guildford at the piano and
Andy McManus on the trumpet
swung through “Sublime Evening
Star” from ‘Tannhauser”, “Dinah”,
and “Night and Day” to start the
program. Hileen Mader followed

 

P.)—Fire razed a chemical research

 

laboratory on the second floor of
the University of Briitish Columbia
Science Building shortly after midnight Sunday, causing over $2,200
damage to building and equipment,
and injuring several firemen.

Research students who have been
working on fish oil experiments in
this laboratory assign the cause of
the fire to the ignition of matches
by rats or mice, and the consequent
firing of the fish oil and chemicals
in the room.

It is assumed that the fire was
smouldering for some hours before
it was discovered early Monday

morning. Although firemen battled| With piano selections from “Tales
the flames with chemicals and|from the Vienna Woods” and the
water, walls and ceiling were| “Scarf Dance”.

“Sally Spry”, a one-act farce, and
the Freshman entry for the Connolly Shield, was the hit of the
evening. Gordon Kinley married
Kay Robinson against Kay Hicks’
wishes; (Kay Hicks was Kay Robinson’s mother). Isobel Morrell, the
other daughter, cancelled her engagement with her fiance. Kay
Hicks married Bill Harvey. And all
this on the advice of the Gazette
columnist, Sally Spry. Penny Patchell looked on.

Isobel Morrell gave a monologue
on “The Faithful Lovers” after the
show. Irving Siegel sang ‘Umbrella
Man” and “F. D. R. Jones”. A singsong and dance finished up the
evening’s fun.

charred and the thick panes of
glazed glass in the doors and walls
on the hallway were cracked and
blackened. On the badly damaged
stools and tables were strewn broken test tubes, flasks, beakers, and
twisted metal apparatus.

This labaratory was one which
was particularly inspected by Sir
Frederick Banting, of the National
Research Council at Ottawa, during
his visit to U. B. C. last fall,

Experiments on the ingredients
and use of fish oil, a valuable local
product, were being carried on in
the laboratory, together with other
experiments on thymus glands and
dioxane.

The equipment used in the fish
oil experiments were specially manufactured in Eastern Canada last
year, and its replacement will probably take some months. Valuable
notes on the experiments were also
destroyed, and this will necessitate
the repetition of the experiments.

—$<$___.

Dal to Send Eight
Delegates to St. F. X.

The first Conference of Maritime
University Students will be held at
| St. Francis Xavier University in
| Antigonish on February 14, 15 and
16. This conference is the result of
Bennett Departs L dtagnanton at the Model Assembly of

5 the League of Nations held last year
Presentation Made Ie Fredericton. The Model heehee
felt that as the League was back
Last Saturday the Canadian Club sliding so rapidly in recent years,
and the Board of Governors of Dal- the students were flogging a dead
housie University tendered a fare- horse in maintaining the outward
well luncheon to the Rt. Hon. R. B. form of a model league when the
Bennett on board the S. S. Montcelare, | questions of first interest were not
which had sailed up the harbour| deStions formerly discussed by the

 

 

 

—_..__.

 

early in the morning with the| League of Nations. This year’s
Dalhousie banner flying at the| ference is to be based on the
masthead. National Conference of Canadian

University Students held at Winni| peg in 1987. Ten colleges will participate—Dalhousie, Acadia, Mount
Allison, St. Mary’s, King’s, Mount
St. Vincent, St. Francis Xavier,
U.N.B., Saint Thomas College ,and
Mount Saint Bernard.

It is expected that Dalhousie will
send eight delegates. To determine
just who is interested, a meeting will
be held Friday night in the Murray
Homestead, where study groups will
be formed and some basis of selection of delegates will be made. At
the conference Dalhousie delegates
will lead in the discussion of Campus
Problems, at the first general session. At the morning session of the
second day Dalhousie will introduce
a discussion on Problems in Education. The technique to be followed
at the conference is much the same
as that followed at Winnipeg. The
subject under discussion will be
introduced by one delegate, then
two delegates will start the ball rolling. For more detailed discussion
the assembly will break up into
smaller groups. These groups will
DELEGATES—

(Continued on page 4)

On behalf of the Board, Zilpha
Linkletter, accompanied by five other
co-eds, presented Mr. Bennett with a
large basket of yellow roses. Gordon
MacKenzie presented a scroll bearing
the signatures of over four hundred
students, and Robert Armstrong, on
behalf of the Law Society presented
a silver plated card tray.

In replying to the toast of Mr.
Crowell, Mr. Bennett said: “I have
been under considerable emotional
strain in recent weeks and I have
stood it very well, but I confess that
you have very nearly broken me up
today.”

He recalled memories of Halifax
and Dalhousie in the early 90’s; he
spoke of his debt to his teachers and
to the university;-he mentioned the
value of his legal studies to him
when he was prime minister.

 

He made a plea for national unity,
imperial cooperation, appreciation of
democracy, and an understanding of
Mr. Chamberlain’s position.

As he closed his address he said,
in a voice quavering slightly with
BENNETT—

(Continued on page 4)

 

 

ee
SS

 

No. 15

FRESHMAN TRIUMPH

Gazette Dramatic
Critic Speaks

 

One of life’s many little pleasures
is the sight of a pretty girl. The
pleasure for me is doubled when she
is seen on the stage, and tripled
when she shows the slightest trace
of acting ability. When four pretty
girls appear in one show as in the
Freshman one-acter on Wednesday
night my evening is practically
complete. Like most males I am
very susceptible to feminine pulchritude, but unlike most males my
critical judgment dwindles to a minimum when I see one.

“Sally Spry” was a sprightly piece,
not in the least bit serious, and not
in the least bit to be taken seriously,
As a Freshman Show it was surprisingly good, but as a Connolley
Shield entry is should be regarded
as a last term leftover that had to
be placed somewhere on the Glee
Club Schedule.

The piece concerns itself with the
heart troubles of a widow and her
two attractive daughters: one in the
middle of being engaged and the
other on the eve of her coming-out
party. How they are straightened
away by writing to Sally Spry (a
fictional counterpat of Dot Dix). is
the basis of the story. It was admittedly trite and to make it worse,
local colour was dragged in which is
old stuff and veddy, veddy weak,
But I still like to see pretty girls
on the stage.

Obiter, my critical side-kick from
the next page, complained after the
show that for a middle-aged mother
Miss Hicks’ dress was well off the
ground, and at the time I agreed
with him. But now I violently disagree. (Not being a lawyer I can
CRITIC—

(Continued on page 4)

Conservative Caucus

 

In preparation for the Law
School’s Mock Parliament, the first
caucus of the Conservative Party
was held at 12 o’clock noon on February lst in the second year room.
Fifty-eight members of the party’s
large following were present, and
various aspects of the coming session were discussed.

Some difficulty presented itself
when Laurence O’Brien, Leader of
the Government, and several of his
followers attempted to join the Conservative Party, and so persisten
were they in their demands, that
they had to be roughly handled. It
is also reported that James Milner,
Leader of the Independent Party,
was among the Liberals expelled.

It was then decided that it was
necessary to limit the membership
of the Conservative Party to 75 in
order that there would be some left
in the Law School for the Government Party. It was learned, however, as the Gazette went to press,
that most of those remaining will
follow Milner’s party if the Conservative Party will not admit more
than 75 to their ranks.

—

Attention!

Haven’t you heard? Well, well—
we are surprised. There’s going to
be one swell bang-up-er of a dance
cum next Tuesday. Such fun as
you’ve not had since Hee was a pup,
we'll warrant. Why the Newman
Club have kicked in with the choicest
ATTENTION—

(Continued on page 4)

 

 

 
= ae ee

k
i

 

  
   

 

in any column of The Geertte are those of the author; it cannot be

The views

‘assumed that they represent the opinion of the student body.

GAZETTE STAFF ee
Editor: BERNARD GRAHAM - - - - -_ B-5033
News Editor: WALTER MURPHY - = «» £5B-6191
Asst. News Editor: BARBARA MURRAY - - H-5152
Sports Editor: DOUGLAS LYALL - - - - _ B-2607
Business Manager: SIDNEY A. GILLIES - - Ee

Exchange Editor: JOAN BLACKWOOD - 
“TRUTH ONLY DO WE HONOUR”

Today we call your attention to two great artists of the
last half century. For they are artists; art, in the widest sense
of that word, has been their main interest: the art of -understanding life and of living richly; the art of increasing human
knowledge; the art of making human fellowship broader,
deeper, firmer. But they have been much more than artists
in the generally accepted sense of that title. They have been
teachers and prophets. They have looked with insight upon
the world around them; they have seen more than most observers; they have acquired more knowledge and have recognized need; in the light of their knowledge and wisdom they
have found themselves with contributions to make to humanity’s needs; and they have made them. What they have said
has been said clearly, with the objective, yet passionate, concern, and with the embracing insight and perspective of prophets, who see life as a whole with all its parts and manifestations related, and whose attitude towards their fellows is one
of understanding, sympathy, and affection.

Havelock Ellis

Havelock Ellis was eighty years old yesterday. He was
born in England, of a seafaring family. A large part of his
childhood was spent on the Pacific Ocean. For four years he
taught school in New South Wales.. He then studied medicine
in London, and was, for a short time, a general practitioner.
But he soon turned his attention to research and to writing.

The work for which he is best known is Studies in the
Psychology of Sex; here are “embodied the first attempts ao
present the sex histories of ‘normal’ people.” Like most
pioneers who have been significant for human progress, he was
misunderstood and ignored. Since his first works appeared,
others have carried on the study he initiated; and the acceptability today of his original work is a tribute to the soundness
of the attitudes with which he approached the subject: he
brought to the study scientific discipline, humane sympathy
and insight, freedom from conventional prejudice, and instinctive caution in drawing’ conclusions.

But this has not been his only contribution. Like a true
artist, his interest has been Life; he has contributed writings
on many of its aspects: painting, dancing, music, thought,
literature, religion; he has been a leader in progressive literary
and social movements. He started the Mermaid series of
Elizabethan dramatists; he edited the first popular edition of
Ibsen’s plays for the Scott Library; and it was he who started
the Contemporary Science series. 1,

, Any student who will look through his general writings
will be impressed; he will find the style clear and arresting,
and the range of subjects as wide as life itself; he will be
amazed at the breadth of the man’s knowledge, and at the
illuminating relationships revealed by the bringing together
of previously unrelated facts. In the Macdonald Memorial
Library there is a copy of Views and Reviews, which is a collection of articles which appeared originally in periodicals,
mostly as book reviews; The Dance of Life may be purchased
in the Modern Library series. In this latter book, first published when its author was sixty-four years old, Dr. Ellis
reveals to us Life, and its more important arts, in the light of
his mature reflection. Even a casual reading of these two
books will not leave one unaffected; and one may even get some
hint-of why Remy de Gourment has called him “the most advanced man _in England” and Olive Schreiner has likened him
to Jesus of Nazareth.
~ Romain Rolland

Last Sunday was his seventy-third birthday. He was

born in Burgundy. During childhood and youth Shakespeare,
Beethoven, and Wagner became known to him; he admired
them, almost worshipped them. He has said: “... from
childhood’s days, I had passionately loved art. Music, in
especial, was my daily food; I do not exaggerate in saying that
to me music was as much a necessity of life as bread.”
The same year that Rolland graduated from the Ecole
Normale, Tolstoi’s What is to be done? appeared, disparagingly
dismissed the heroes of his youth, and condemned art. In
despair young Romain wrote to Tolstoi, and after a considerable
interval received a reply: thrity-eight pages, written in French,
and beginning “Cher Frére...” In this Tolstoi pointed out
“that the pre-condition of every true calling is not love for art
but love for mankind. That alone is of value which binds men
together. Those only who love their fellow creatures can hope
as artists to do anything worth doing.”

For two years Rolland lived in Rome on a scholarship from
the Ecole Normale. Here he came to know Malwida von
Meysenbug; she had been the friend of great men: Mazzini,
Wagner, Nietsche, Ibsen; and now, in the serenity and wisdom
of her seventy years, she became, the friend, companion, and
guide of Rolland.

 

SN a —————— ——————————————————————————————————————————————————————————— SS <= meee rmmmitriaraaemat ti cee iaeslitieatinatita

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

— Insanity Fair

 

It is always fascinating to read
a book in which predictions are made.
Especially so, if some of the predictions come true after the book has
been published. Such a book is
Douglas Reed’s, Insanity Fair. In
it, forecasts a German annexation of
Austria, a Czechoslovakia deserted
by the Allies, and shows up Fascist
leanings in many Balkans countries.
The picture he paints is not a happy
one. Britain and her “ostrichism”,
as he calls it—the way she buries
her head as soon as she is confronted with a major problem, refusing
to look at future consequences but |
seizing anything that will clear|
things up for the moment—all this |
infuriates him. |

Although Douglas Reed is a|
British foreign correspondent he

contain colored water ... the exodus
of the Jews from Germany was confined to Jews in the professions.
But their lot is infinitely better than
that of non-Jewish emigrants. The
German Socialist, Communist or
pacifist emigrant has no hope but to
eke out a miserable existence in
Prague, Antwerp, Paris or London.
I have watched him doing it — a
depressing sight ... the Jew nearly
always has relatives and friends in
other countries, he often speaks
several languages, he sometimes has
more than one passport—and he has
that priceless asset, the instinctive
sympathy of fellow Jews, all held
together by the bond of a common
struggle against anti-Semitism.”
xk £ &

Chap. 24. Moscow Excursion

“I went to Moscow with feelings
of strong sympathy for Russia —
not for Bolshevism, which I guessed

takes no pride in his native London. | to be a political racket like Fascism
He infinitely refers to live on the|and National Socialism, but for
Continent. Despite all this he is| Russia and the Russians, a sympathy
patriotic and idealistic enough to! born of that great service they had
attempt to persuade the people of | rendered my country in the war, for

England that even if they are living |
in Insanity Fair they need not travel
through it by means of Stupidity |
Street.

Following are some extracts from
the book. I think they might give
you a better idea of the type of book |
it is than any elaborate review. |

“None of the characters in this
book is imaginary. They all exist, |
believe it or not.”

“None of the opinions expressed
in this book commits any third party.
They are mine, all mine, and nobody’s but mine.”

 

*

Chap. 17. No Jews is Good Jews
“But the Jews have been left
almost unmolested in their most
powerful stronghold—that of trade
and commerce ... the anti-Jewish

 

without them, I thought, we should
have been lost...

“The desperate longing for peace
of a people bled white, plundered
and starved by the ghouls that fatten on war produced, in a world at
war, the Bolshevist Revolution.

“Ambitions for conquest, revenge, |.

and the resubjugation of the masses
produced, in a world at peace, the
Fascist and National Socialist
regimes.

“T thought about these things as I
wandered about Moscow, and although Mussolini had not then begun
to make Abyssinia a land fit for
Negroes to live in, and the Germans,
Italians and Moors had not started
to save Spain from the Spaniards
and the Japanese had not yet begun
to defend themselves against the

racket in Germany is a pricked | Chinese in China, I felt what was
balloon, a hollow bluff, a shop; coming in the world. The European
window exhibit like one of those| line-up had begun, and the signs
tempting bottles of Chartreuse or| were that the British Empire would
Benedictine that you can see in ex-| have to let itself be saved by Russia
pensive grocer’s .shops—they only | (Continued on page 4)

 

conceived in 1889 when Rolland became conscious of himself as
a European, with a prophetic mission.

In 1910, although. part of Jean-Christophe had already been
translated into other languages, its author was unknown. In
1912 he was still unknown. In 1914 he was famous; Europe
had acclaimed the prophet of European unity.

During the war he lived in Switzerland, where, as the
centre of a very small band of international friends, and. persecution and vitrolic outpourings from all sides, he issued his
manifestoes against hate and the destruction of human freedom
and unity. At the same time he was working in the Civil
Prisoners’ Service of the Red Cross. In 1916 he was awarded
the Nobel Prize for literature.

After the war several of his works were published. In 1924
appeared his biography of Mahatma Gandhi. From 1921 to
1933 he was working on The Soul Enchanted, a work, in five
volumes, comparable only with Jean-Christophe, in which he
presents a study of a woman, as earlier he had presented a
study of a man.

Romain Rolland is great because of the magnitude of his
work, and the symphonic character of his writings; he is the
artist through whom music makes its first really great impact
on literature. He is great as the champion of “la solidarité
humaine.” As Havelock Ellis has said: “This fragile and
senstive figure, with a strength greater than that of steel, has
upheld the cause of human solidarity amid the spiteful calumnies of his own people and often the indifference of the world,
which had formerly recognized with enthusiasm his delicate
and sympathetic qualities as an artist.”

He is great because of his message that freedom and
strength for the individual, that the possibility of unswerving
love, that the ability to recognize truth, all depend upon the
establishment of the ultimate and supreme authority of the
individual conscience.

Romain Rolland is greatest because of the way he has lived
life. Although free from illusion, and expecting and dreading
the havoe of the war, he knew and announced what was the
alternative, the only path for the enrichment of life in Europe.
The ignoring of this alternative, though expected, caused him
great anguish of spirit and mind. He was in Switzerland in
August 1914, and he remained there for five years. There, as
was not possible in the belligerent countries, he cauld hear the
cries coming up from both sides; from there he could send his
words of comfort; there, in comparative freedom, he could make
his effort to salvage something from the wreckage. He was

. ° eS iceehe | . °
In June 1895 he presented his doctorate thesis, The Origin |abused in Germany, he was misunderstood, condemned, perse
of the Modern Lyrical Drama.
music ever presented to the faculty of the Sorbonne.
as professor, he introduced a course on the history of music.
He wrote several dramas, and took an active part in the
attempts to establish a People’s Theatre; from the first he
championed Dreyfus’ innocence, but his interest was in justice,
not in politics.

For fifteen years, with some friends, he wrote and edited
Cahiers de la quinzaine. In this were published all the works
of his most productive decade: Jean-Christope, Beethoven,
Michel-Ange, and the plays.

He worked strenuously, in obscurity and solitude, producing his greatest work. Jean-Christophe, which appeared in ten

It was the first discussion of | cuted in France.
In time, | Was difficult for his mail was opened, his every move and every

His friends deserted him. Communication
word spied upon. By all this and worse he was in nowise
embittered; he remained full of love and sorrow for humanity,
calling upon the men of intelligence and genius, the artists and
the scientists of all nations, to cease throwing. fuel on the
flames of hatred. He provided a centre for those few, those
very few, who kept their perspective, who avoided the hatred
that poisoned most men, who still acknowledge a loyalty transcending “my country, right or wrong.” His example steadied
young men who were wavering, and today it rises above humanity to shine like a beacon into the future, to show that it
is possible for a man to retain his perspective when all others

volumes between 1904 and 1912. Edmund Gosse has called itlose theirs, for him to remain, for ever and in spite of all, loyal

“the noblest work of fiction of the twentieth century.”

 

It wasto Truth.

 

 

 

“ February 3,'1939

 

“Did you say ‘oi’?”
“Yes—‘oi’ want a Sweet Cap!”

SWEET CAPORAL CIGARETTES

“The purest form in which tobacco can be smoked.”

GAUVIN AND GENTZEL

Special Rates to Students — 24 Hour Finishing Service

18 SPRING GARDEN ROAD Phone B 6992

 

 

 

THOMAS WALLACE
SONS and DAUGHTERS

SIGHT SPECIALISTS

Visit Our Oyster Bar
Fresh Oysters, served just like
you want them at Boutilier’s
Oyster Bar. Open until 6 p.m.

BOUTILIER’S
BEDFORD ROW

Eyes Tested — Glasses Made

“Tf You Went to See Well See Wallace”

Y. M.C. A. BLDG. HALIFAX

 

 

 

 

 

Get a Pair of Small Gifts

Skates

While the Season Lasts

|

|

| For that personal gift
that must not be expensive, May we suggest a
piece of Birks Vanity

Silver, in her pattern,

We have them at all prices A few dollars will buy
one of the smaller pieces,
but her pleasure will be

unbounded.

HENRY BIRKS AND
SONS LIMITED

Diamond Merchants
Halifax, N. S.

Wallace Bros.
Limited
“Specialists in Fitting”

415 BARRINGTON STREET

WHEN YOU NEED:

 

DRUGS MEDICINES PRESCRIPTIONS

YOU GET BETTER SERVICE AND VALUE

Kinley’s Drug Stores

 

 

Offers Engineering Courses
in
CIVIL, ELECTRICAL, MECHANICAL, and MININ

To Dalhousie Students with Engineering Diplomas.
| Modern Equipment, Instructing Staff with Individual Experience.
| Twenty Free Scholarships of $75.00 each for Nova Scotian Students.

|
|- Write or call for Calender or advice to
| F. H. SEXTON, President.

The Nova Scotia Technical College
|
|
|
|

 

 

 

 
  
  
   

Canada’s Sweethearts W ant Flowers For
St. Valentine’s Day, February ... 14th

& Why do they want Flowers above

in everything else? Because St. Valentine’s is a day of romance. And flowers have a way of saying “I love you”
as no other gift can. _

So send your sweetheart Flowers.
t’s inexpensive! Easy! Just drop in
to our store and place your order.
& We do the rest.

Your Flowers are delivered—fresh
and gorgeous! A Valentine she’l!
never forget!

Her Shop

      
 
    
  
 

       
           
       
     
          
 
    
 
 
 
  

  

 
Em Se he Sareea \. oe TP ee

——— a Sei eeteiiaelineenenaipnenatinnidicninaailc <A ct ee a
i re Ya 7 7 zz Y

 

= = oo Ta 7 a Ee Ss a =
wre . *
A a At A ert nyse ttl te
z ? Sy

JSIF

 
   

ae
re

a?

by

, :
s
=

=

Re a

eg
Ey

- =
ea

*,
F
?

ti ;

ai:
ed’ *

a
ie
a
ft)

ios
ae

a.
e
a

_ evening when Professor B. was

 

well, we hear that the
nger list to England has inwith great rapidity this

ek since there are six eager

co-eds that are panting to become
Mrs. Bennett. Evidently the Maestro was up to his true form last
Saturday at the luncheon. It’s too
bad that harems have gone out of
fashion in the old country because
somebody’s going to be disappointed.
On asking Zilpha how it felt to be
saluted by Canada’s most eligible
bachelor she said she was too overcome at the time and so couldn’t
analyze her feelings, but that she is
going to preserve the sacred spot—
one inch due south to the left ear—
so that her grandchildren will have
the thrill of seeing the actual imprint. We always knew that it was
easier not to wash anyway, and SO
economical! Shirley’s response to
question was a nonchalant “Oh not
any different from any of the others,
except he kissed me on the cheek”.
Ain’t Love grand? At any event
apart from the rest of Halifax, Mr.
Bennett seemed to leave a good impression on six people at least.
Loud laughter please.)

 

We take back what we said about
the girls and the Tech Ball last
week, since there were no Dalhousians present — pardon me the
number was so small that it got lost
in the crowd. The strained looks
are probably over the Fraternity
Formals which always cause such
havoe with the female heart and,
incidentally, the face on the morning
after. Phi Chi has started the ball
rolling, and now Phi Kap tonight
so gird yourselves together gals and
let’s see if you have what it takes.

But apparently Dalhousie girls
haven’t that Something that attracts
a certain chosen number of the
undergraduate student body — you
know the four that are going
through what is technically called
the Chorus Girl stage. They seem
to love to pack, for what else would
they be doing with certain members
of the Repetory Company at. 5.30
a.m., Sunday morning? And why
-couldn’t Bob pronounce Eloise Horsley’s name properly even though he
had been out with her several nights
before? Shy, perhaps. But alas
chivalry is dead since the devoted
following couldn’t manage to get
down to the train to wave a fond
farewell the next morning. Perhaps
they are saving up for a big welcome when the Company returns in
September.

 

Professor Bennet put on another
of his inimitable one-man shows last
Thursday evening, when he alone and
unaided read and acted ALL the
parts of Twelfth Night—his star role
was in the drunken scene as Sir
Toby. Talk of one of Life’s little
embarassing moments, later on in the

) Hiceing
Oo Ap Bbleimath:

. ‘ ie oo,

 

doing the final casting the following
conversation occurred over the
character of Sir Toby.

Prof. Bennet: “Have you ever
been tight Mr. Kinley ?”

Horrible Pause

Gordon K (with righteous indignation): “Why, Sir !!!

Prof. Bennet: “Oh, that’s all right,
I didn’t expect you to answer yes
or no.”

 

Canada has always been a wild
mysterious place to England — anyone knows that—but when it comes
to our Southern neighbours making
faux-pas about us, that is too much.
Last week the medical Library received a card addressed to the
University of Manitoba, Halifax,
N.S. This was the first cruel blow.
Think what would happen if someone from Dal sent a card to the
University of California, New York
State,—well just imagine! The second came when the student (we will
call him that through want of further information, but not through
merit) wanted to know when classes
in the Medical School started, and in
what language these classes would
be given, since he wanted to study
it up in the summer and so come
prepared. P.S.—He gathered we
could decipher English since his card
was in attempted English.

 

Oh, yes that reminds me, there
was a class meeting of ’39 on Tuesday morning. Everybody fought
and struggled vainly over nothing,
and split hairs where there were no
hairs to split. Nothing was decided
except a motion which was rejected
immediately after being passed, on
the grounds that no one understood
what had gone before, and that that
the motion was irrelevant to the
meeting. We sincerely hope both for
the benefit of Halifax and elsewhere
that the capabilities displayed during this meeting are not indicative
of the mentality and temperment of
the collective members, since these
adults (?) are to be thrust forth
into an unfriendly world this May,
where they must either sink or swim.

It would seem that Dalhousie will
have a double graduating class next
year, if the aforesaid members
ramble as much in exam papers as
they did on Tuesday morning—don’t
think me cynical.

 

Once more we spring into the
breach with a conversation which we
overheard in the store one day —
pardon me if I seem to harp on the
theme of mentality!

Freshette: “Tell me, where’s Carstairs this term? I’ve heard so
much about him, but he seems to
have dropped out of things.”

Sophomore: “Oh? I believe he’s
working this year.”

Freshette: “Work! Why, I thought
he went to Dal!”

 

From Old Gazettes

Feb. 1934

care
_ : a
an)

a
oe

i

From “Campus Comment”

What is your idea of a _ college
hero? A fellow who plans to go to
the Delta Gamma dance stag.

Should a fellow take a girl’s arm
when he is walking with her?

No, it isn’t the proper thing to do,
but it is just as well to keep an eye
on her.

% Bs *
Feb. 1929
Hiller in Cutting Comment
on Hall Girls.

Consternation, confusion and chaos
are now reigning supreme in _ the
land of the Hillers. They are com- plaining about the Shirreff Hall
girls. They say that if you don’t
invite them to the Pine Hill At
Home you show poor taste; and if
_ you do they swipe your two dollar
banner as a souvenir. If you take

_ them to the Pine Hill dance they in
a

ae ate all friendly approaches.

 

sist on having a private taxi, and
> if you grant them this request they
occupy a secluded corner and frus“i
speak to them on the street
talk about you, and if you

 

If you take them to church you’re
Seotch, and if you don’t, you’re a
pagan; if—but what’s the use? If
you still think they are nice little
girls to know, then you are dumb.
Anyway, we don’t want them at
Pine Hill—we prefer dove-like women even if they are a little pigeontoed,

* * %
Feb. 1924

The advisory committee has decided that last year’s inter-collegiate
team shall debate with McGill in
Montreal on March 20th. The subject for debate is “Resolved that
there are social remedies for the
present industrial unrest.”

Ed % *

From Minutes of the Council

of Students.

The following members of the
Council: Parker, Kirkpatrick, Hayes,
and Lawley, together with Messrs.
Bell and Feeney, were appointed a
committee to make all arrangements
for Theatre Night.

The securing of a preacher for
the Baccalaureate Sermon was left
in the hands of the Executive of the

a. \ e Ghar ait
; i fa
ry. CORREO M INE GREP oa Ese
f ; .

  

 

| ha. sats

It will come as a shock to most
Nova Scotians to learn that Nova
Scotia is not the only place in Canada, but that such is the truth there
can be no doubting. Mr. R. B. Bennett travelled all the way across
Canada just to tell us that. It is
true that he had collateral motives
which when totalled might cause
some of my dear readers to conclude that I was not putting the
case fairly, but am I? Or am I
not?

We have to admit that (after indulging in that much-disapproved of
sport—kissing) he spent some time
gently but firmly informing Nova
Scotians in general that while there
may be much history and tradition
in our dear province, there is a
Dominion just around the corner
with just as great demands on our
loyalties.

 

It is respectfully submitted that
Mr. Bennett has misjudged his audience. Or perhaps accidentally turned on the wrong speech. Surely he
was thinking of Ontario? Anyway,
everybody knows, particularly the
Nova Scotians, that in this province
we have the best, while the rest of
the Dominion has to put up with
something inferior. I have told myself, for instance, that Haligonians
are noted for their interest in the
finer things. A native of the place
told me so, and who knows better ?

And Mr. Bennett was also right
when he advocated reform within
the bulwarks of Democracy. He was
on safe ground there. Anyone who
stands for reform is quite safe and
probably always right. The danger
arises when he begins to particularize. But we won’t go into that.
Politically I am an independent, or
a communist, or something.

Another remark of Mr. Benne‘t’s
worthy of repetition anywhere is to
the effect that dictators don’t bluff.
It is not so much the truth of the
statement as it is the way the master
said it. You couldn’t help hearing
him. And many people believe him.
After reading something from a
novel called “Mein Kampf” I can’t
help hoping he isn’t right. My gosh,
I nearly forgot—Nova Scotia has its
own flag.

* * *
PROFANITY

An aunt of mine, who is not so
easily shocked as many aunts are,
once told me that if I had to indulge
in profanity, at least I should do it
like a gentleman. That is a piece
of advice which would have been
well received by the cast of “Hands
Across the Sea’. I am not sure
whether the matter is of sufficient
urgency and importance that a
course be given on it; worse suggestions have been made. However, the
situation is not confined to mere
cursin’,

“Overruled” was definitely immoral. At least it was when Mr.
Shaw wrote it. Otherwise why write
it? Where is the university censor?
What has become of the university,
the guardian of public morals?
Tsk, tsk! The fact would appear to
be that when the so-called immoral
play is produced, it is more amusing that immoral.

Still the Film Society would not
bring “Madame Bovary,” or “La
Kermesse Héroique”. Next year,
however, due to the kindness of the
Glee Club, there may be hopes. But
as for straight profanity, unadulterated with any immorality, that is
another problems

Perhaps we should know all the
words, as most of us do, but I am
forced to agree with Mr. Bennett:
we should not use them with such
obvious distaste and consciousness.
Rather like a Newfoundlander would
be the ideal, I should think.

What I am wondering about is
whether the Pine Hillers will be so
bold *in their play. Perhaps they
will cross their fingers.

J. B. M

 

After some discussion of Gazette
matters, on motion, the Council demanded an immediate statement
from the Gazette Editors, and a
transfer of all monies in their possession. Meanwhile, that the Treasurer refuse to pay any more Gazette
bills.

Sek

  

SSAETTE.
| Medical cockay.

 

(Note: This is a Fantasy present- |

ing an imaginary picture of conditions at the Medical School if pilfering—petty, and otherwise—does not
cease. )

Denton arises, breakfasts, and after a brisk ten minute walk arrives
at the Medical School. He walks
spryly up the time worn stone steps
and stops in front of the massive
grilled door. After stepping within
the inner ante-room he nervously
and cautiously bends down and removes the shoe of his left foot.
With fingers trembling with fear of
being seen by another student he removes a piece of parchment from
out the false bottom of his shoe heel.
On it are written numbers: L 965843,
R 5698405, and L 348567. It is the
combination to the dial that must
be turned if the massive, welded,
iron and steel inner door to the
School is to be opened. With trembling fingers he twirls the dial, first
to the left, then to the right, and
finally once again to the left. He
holds his breath for an instant, then
sighs with relief as his keen medieal ears, used to listening to the
pound of a heart, distinctly hears
the tumblers fall. He knows the
door is open. He pushes the huge
well-oiled door that once adorned
the vault of the U. S. Treasury and
which was recently bought secondhand by the Medical School, and
enters the main hall of his medica]
Alma Mater.

He walks down the corridor, turns
to the left and begins the descent
into the locker-room. At the bottom of the stairway, on either side,
stand two uniformed men. Their
faces testify to their boasted record
in the service of Pinkerton, and
Scotland Yard, and their three-year
post-graduate work at Alcatraz.
their massive bodies is more artillery than you see during a Peace
Day observance — a revolver on
either side, a stiletto at the waist,
a trio of hand grenades hanging
from their belts, and in their hands
loaded rifles affixed with bayonet.

They challenge our Denton for
the pass word. In high nervous
tones that openly betray the mental
state he lives through, the young
med. student mutters something
that sounds like “IdunnonothinIain’tsayinothingsee”’. Satisfied, the guards
let him pass to the locker room.

He presses a button the wall and

nervously waits for the ascent of |

the elevator that will carry him
fifty-four feet into the depths of the
earth to his burglar-proof locker.
He steps in and as he descends the
compresséd air that he must breathe
pounds against his eardrums _because he is not yet used to it. Out
he steps. He gives his registration
number to the young lady on the
desk, who presses another button
summoning two more guards. The
three walk down a dimly-lit corridor. A guard turns a key in the
locker door, while the other turns
another key in the same door to
prevent one betraying the other.

Denton swings the fourteen inch
hydraulic door open. He gropes in
the dark for a few minutes, then
emerges with his moth-eaten 1.14
one-time white lab coat. He rakes off
his overcoat, his gloves, his scarf,
and his suiteoat, turns them over for
inspection to both guards. Satisfied,
they both place their signatures to
the printed slip that testifies that
they will sign an affidavit, if need
be, that Denton had left his coat
within his locker. This precaution
was felt necessary for fear that,
despite seemingly impregnible protection, some modern Jimmy Valentine might still be successful in
breaking barriers and stealing Denton’s coat.

telieved, Denton again boards the
elevator, and is whisked to
main floor.
fear he has pilfered.
found.

he is

Lie Detector. Found innocent he is
given his Certificate of Freedom for
the day. He hurries lest he be late
for class. The class has started and
the professor is discussing the re(Continued on page four)

 

On |

/ness on my part meant another dose

 

|a university, and

the | housie
There he is searched for | necessity
Nothing is| leaders in this Dominion, appreciate
Two guards now rushe him | the real value
over to the Detention Room, where | Fund,
subjected to a ten minute!
grilling by detectives aided by a, wholeheartedly endorsing this peti
|nurse that her hold on me relaxed.
| The natural consequence of this was

Page Three:

 

O ona lime
nce Upon

Once upon a time, not more than ‘trying to determine its height above
a certain number of years ago,—to| sea level, but I hardly think so. His
be exact, it was the day after I was|face left a deep impression on my
born, I remember it well—I was re-| plastic mind. I remember it ag
clining peacefully in the nurse’s| vividly as if I had seen it only the
arms as she paced to and fro sing-| next week. He looked as if he
ing a lullaby. After a while the| had swallowed a horse and left the
singing got on my nerves, so I pre-| tail hanging out. However, in spite
tended to fall asleep. She there-| of his tail,—sorry, I mean beard—
upon stopped, and transferring me|he pulled me through. So well did
to one arm, picked up the newspa-|he do his duty by me, that I have
per to read. no hesitation in stating that I am

I opened one eye and the first|20W miles and miles behind the edthing that caught it was: “To Mr.|itor on the broad road that leads
and Mrs. Schnozzlebloom, a fat|t0——boy.” Very naturally my curiosity! Some years after the events narwas aroused, and I opened the other|Tated above, I again came across
eye just to satisfy myself that the the identical story that had been
adjective was “fat”. the cause of all the upsettimo. I
must say that the humour of it,
somehow, didn’t strike me half so
forcibly as the floor did on the previous occasion.

Here is the story: Among certain college students there was a
discussion going on as to the number of apples Adam and Eve had
eaten. (That’s what they do in
English classes.) Someone, evidently looking for trouble, said: “Eve 8

The nurse, however, caught me in
the act and, as a result, we had the
lullaby business all over again for
my special benefit. But the pleasure,
if any, was all her’s. I shut my
eyes at once, and was only sorry I
couldn’t shut my ears as well. I
gnashed my teeth—sorry, I mean
my gums—in impotent disgust until presently she left off the noise

and resumed reading the paper. and Adam 2. Total 10.”
Slowly and stealthily, one pair of Wh ued
; ; F wii ereupon, the ITE
eyelids parted just sufficiently to thing in rae cee dpa te
enable me to see the print. She had vie ¥

and Adam 8. Total 16.”

| The professor chimed in: “T don’t
see that, for Eve 8 and Adam 82.
Total 90,”

Some lug, just finishing a theme,
| piped up: “You’re all wet, for Eve

The page now on view began, ere| 81 and Adam 812. Total 393.”
long, to interest me. One column | Whereupon, another bright thing
was headed: “Jokes that once were | bellowed forth: “I reason like this:
fresh.” To me, of course, they were| Eve 814 herself and Adam 8124 Eve.
all new, so I started to read them.| Total 8,938,”

Some of the jokes rather tickled me, | But the bright man of the class
and I had a hard struggle to keep | said: “No, Eve 8142 know how it
my facial muscles under control. I| tasted, and Adam 82149 see what
knew from sad experience that the|it was like. Total 36 284,”
slightest appearance of wakeful-| But the first bright thing came
back with: “Adam 81420 fy himself against an attack of scurvy,
and Eve did the same. Total 1 ,628,480.”

This occurred just as I was awaking from my reading of J. Drinkwater, and so I said: “My own—
my very own private opinion about
this apple business is simply this:
Adam and Eve saw apples; they
took 1, which was very noughty.
Now if 1 is very noughty, the numbent over me. His hand was on my|ber of apples they ate would be
head, feeling and thumbing an| something like 1000000000000000000enormous bump that had evidently | 000.”
just arrived. I don’t know why he | O. Y. NOUGHT,
was doing that. He may have been | KNOTT.

turned over the page, so I was deprived of the pleasure of reading
any more nice things about myself.
Fancy my being so vain at such 4
tender age!

 

 

of lullaby. The strain,
proved too much for me. Suddenly
I burst into’ a roar of laughter,
which gave such a fright to the

that I fell to the floor, wrong side
up.

When I recovered consciousness I
found myself in my cradle. There
was a man, presumably a doctor,

however,

 

sorry, I mean

 

Law Courts -(Continued from Page One)

Arts and Science-
(Continued from page 1)

as follows: A. P. McInnes, a practical joker, persuaded the deceased
to poison J. Mcpherson by putting
spirits of nitre in his coffee. MeInnes instructed McCarthy to procure the nitre at the Kareful Farmacy, Ltd., but instead he went to
the Shiftless Drug Store, where the
clerk mistakenly gave him nitric
acid. McCarthy slipped the nitric

dents” and to encourage “Mr.
Milner’s amorous affairs”. The
students were unanimously in accord.

In discussing the proposed amendments to the constitution of the
Students’ Council concerning the
nomination of Arts and Science candidates Bernard Graham contended
“You are substituting for a system
that is farcial something which is
more so”. Fred Barton believed that
“There is a definite gain from unity.
The class system is time-worn. A
new society will see a revival of
interest among the students and so
it is worth a try. “The Arts and
Science Society will solidify the
students” was the contention of
Gordon Thompson.

cups becoming intermixed McCarthy
drank the poison himself and died
in consequence. McInnes was charged with murder.

The Bench showed itself well acquainted with the intricacies of medical jurisprudence, especially Lady
Hirsch, who throughout the trial

A unanimous vote was given for| referred to a red medical text in
the resolution proposed by Jim! scribed with the name of a stranger
Milner: to the case named Morrison.
“Whereas the students of the

ihe argument of Murray Ryan,

-, counsel for respondents, was
interspersed with caustic remarks
from the lady member of the Bench.
There was much discussion over the
definition of a practical joke, but
Her Ladyship’s question, “Is it a
practical joke to give someone a
laxative?” received no definite answer from Mr. Ryan to whom it was
addressed.

Lord Justice Lithwick insisted
that counsel for respondents give
the facts of the Nova Scotia case of
Marshall vs. Curry, but Mr. Ryan
pleaded ignorance.

Messrs. D. Amiro and D. Anderson acted as junior counsel for the
appellant and respondent, respectively.

Canadian Universities are about to| K.¢c
petition the Government of Canada
to establish a National Scholarship
Fund to aid deserving students who
otherwise would be unable to attend

“Whereas we, the students of Dal
the
trained

University,
for

realizing
university

 

of this Scholarship

“We therefore go on record as

tion to the Canadian Government”.

No interest seemed evident among
the student body for a skiing party
proposed by Douglas McKeen for
this Saturday night. The matter
was dropped.

acid into Mepherson’s coffee, but the

 
 

oF
i
a
‘ J

~

Dal Cubs Defeat
St. Georges Aces

Beating St. George’s Aces by two
points at the “Y” last week, the
Cubs moved into second place in the
Intermediate League. While they
were fresh the Cubs maintained a
zone defence which their opponents
couldn’t solve and broke from their
checks to gain a lead of ten points
at half time. In the second half the
game became a rough house. The
fast-tiring Cubs were disorganized
and barely kept in the lead until the
end of the game. 7

Apart from being unused to the
floor and in worse condition, the
Cubs played better basketball;
Stewart and Hutchins at guard
were the mainstays of the team,

 

_both offensively and defensively.

Line up: Stewart 12, Hutchins 8,
Hutton 4, MacKenzie 2, Hatfield 3,
Lyall 10; Chairman, James.

Law Leads League

Law, 30; Arts & Science, 27

Law continued undefeated in Interfaculty basketball by winning
from Arts and Science 30-27. Less
rough house than usual, this was
the best game so far. Outstanding
for Arts and Science were Fraser,
who scored eighteen points—highest individual score in any game—
and barrel-chested Craig Smith.

The Law team were all about
equal, except for Don Storey,whose
two goals in the last minute were
the margin of victory. Surprising
was Graham Murray, who missed an
easy shot at the wrong goal.

Line-ups:

Law—Storey 6, Bingham 4, Murray 4, Trites 4, Piercey 8, Hanway 4.

A. & §.—Fraser 18, Smith 6, Perlin 1, Tupper 2, Arnell.

Dalhousie Men
Afraid to Fight?

According to reports a fine turnout
ef aspirants for pugilistic honors
have responded to the call, but there
are still some divisions open. Let’s
not have a repetition of last year:
the loss of the Maritime Intercollegiate Boxing Championship due to
the lack of men to represent Dal in
each division. No matter how light
or how heavy you are, no matter if
you have boxed before or not, you
are welcome. Let the coaches decide
if you are fit material for the team.
Don’t wait any longer. Come out for
boxing immediately!

Such expert trainers as Manager
Abe Becker, Milt Lipitz, Emanuel
Preiss and Anthony Minichiello will
gladly instruct you. These coaches
will devote extra time to beginners
‘and by the time the Intercollegiates
roll round in March you will be an
old timer with confidence and poise.
There are workouts every Tuesday
and Thursday evening at 8.30 and
Saturday afternoon at 2.30.

Those that have already turned
out are showing more pep, as there
is a possibility that the boxing meet
this year will be held at St. Francis
Xavier.

A month or so more to the elimination tournament—and pretty near
two months to the Intercollegiate
Boxing Bouts—so stop stalling and
start training immediately. Let’s
see Dalhousie win for a change.

‘CRITIC— .

(Continued from page 1)
use those words). I’ve come to the
conclusion that my extreme enjoyment of the piece rested on just such
things. Shapely appendages should
have a good audience,

Besides the girls’ smartness and
Miss Robinson’s delightfully husky
voice there was some better than
‘average acting. Catherine Hick’s
excitable mother and Bill Harvey’s
doddering professor were particularly well done. Also professionally
done was the love scene between Kay
Robinson and Gordon Kinley which
aroused my admiration and, I blush
to admit it, laughter in company
with, the rest of the unsophisticated
audience,

 

 

 

 

Girls’ Sports

BASKETBALL

Our interclass basketball league
got started last Saturday when the
Freshettes played the Sophs. At the
end the score was 18-18. It was a
good fast game, both teams playing
hard. On the Freshette team were
R. Milne, A. Childers, D. Simon, M.
Levick, E. Cohen, M. Parkes, M.
Manning, K. Hicks; and the Sophs
were H. Brownhill, M. Doull, J.
Cahan, P. Hendry, E. Menger, J.
MacIntosh.

This Saturday the Sophs will play
the Junior-Senior team. Since these
games are played on only the half
the floor there will be a general
practice for everyone else.

* * *

 

Arrangements are still being made
for the intercollegiate league and
the dates of most of the games have
not been definitely decided and then
too, it is possible that the U. N. B.
will be in the league this year. This
much, however, has been decided—
that Dal will play Acadia on Feb. 18.
We want to see our team really do
something at this game, namely,
beat Acadia.

ee

An interesting and amusing sight
was to be seen last Monday night
at the Y. W. The Dal girls went
down to play a practice match
against the “Y” and when they
got there they found that they had
no uniforms to play in. Owing to
a mix-up nobody had thought of
bringing along the yellow jerseys
and black shorts of our girls. They
found something to play in; they
had to, but the ensembles were not
exactly chic, if you know what we
mean. In case you would like to
know, Dal, even playing under such
great difficulties, won the game.

 

SWIMMING

The date of the swimming meet
is drawing nearer. In fact it is on
the 10th of this month. This means
only one more practice, so let’s see
everybody Thursday night, at seven
o’clock, in the Y. M. pool. We want
to hang on to the Cup we won last
year.

 

DANCING

We were in watching the new
dancing class for upperclassmen last
Monday and were very agreeably
surprised. We hadn’t know just
what to expect, but what we got
was real dancing. It was interesting
to watch and must be even greater
fun to do it. The class is held at
3.30 on Monday.

 

BALLROOM DANCING
FOR EVERYBODY

Here it is, what you have always
wanted—free dancing lessons. Phy]
Wray is going to have a mixed
dancing class and the tentative time
is Friday at 7.30 p.m. Here is your
chance to learn well all sorts of
steps, new and old, and to really be
able to dance without walking over
somebody else’s feet. All the new
dances such as shag and Injun will
be taught. We'll see you there!

 

MEDICAL FANTASY—
(Continued from page 3)

actions of serum. Spotting Denton

he asks: “Denton, did you ever take

diphtheria antitoxin?” “Take it!
Take it! S’elp me, sir. I never seen
it—I swear I never. I don’t know

who’se been taking all that missing
stuff from around here, but I swear
it wasn’t me. You just got to believe me—I didn’t take it.” Losing
consciousness, Denton swoons in a
deep faint. The nervous tension
which he has lived under since the
inception of the Honesty at Dal
housie program began has been too
much for him.

     

a

LL

 

tion.

Acadia, 49; Dalhousie, 30

For three years fast, well-practiced teams from Acadia
have beaten Dalhousie at basketball.
With an almost entirely different team but playing the

Last night was no excep
same system Acadia again gave the Tigers a sound beating.
Instead of the zone defence which they have been practicing Dalhousie chose to play man to man and failed to keep

their opponents covered.

At the first of the game Acadia gained a lead on long shots,

which they held until half-time.

After their bad start the

Tigers kept Acadia from increasing their lead and they looked
as if they might improve, but in the second half they became

completely disorganized.

They could not solve Acadia’s shifting zone defence.

Only

good long shot on the team Johnnie Martin had an off night so
that Dalhousie only scored ten field goals the whole game.
When Acadia got the ball they caught Dalhousie up the

floor on fast breaks.

Best game for Dalhousie was played by Art Shainhouse
who checked his man closer than any one else and broke in for

three goals.

 

COMMENT ON: SPORTS

Far from equalling their brilliant
record of last year when they reach
ed the finals of the league playoffs,
the hockey team have yet to win a
game. Because practice and trips
demanded too much time from
studies, the team has not been able
to get organized though individually the players compare favourably
with the rest of the league. Their
last trip will be made to New Glasgow on February 8rd, and the last
home game will be at the Arena
next Wednesday. It is quite possible that the team may hit the
stride they are capable of, with a
different result than heretofore.

 

Monday night at the Arena the
intercollegiate team will play its
first game in the City Intercollegiate
League, comprised of St. Mary’s,
King’s, Tech, and Dalhousie.

 

Barnstorming professionals Jack
Purcell and Stanley Cutts demonstrated the degree of skill to which
it is possible to attain in badminton.

World’s champion Purcell is to badminton what Budge and Vines are
to tennis, A master of technique
and deception, Purcell put on the
show that was expected of him
without exerting himself to any extent.

Most popular indoor sport at Dalhousie, badminton numbers among
its followers no Jack Purcells, but
a few players of pretty fair ability,
and.a great many not so good but
who nonetheless get a good deal of
fun out of it. Dalhousie’s badminton team compete for the McCurdy
Cup against the best players in the
city from whom they win few
games but benefit from the competition. Draws for the men’s and
women‘s singles championships of
the University have been posted.

 

In the basement of the Gym the
annual ping-pong tournament is in
progress. Out of a large field of
entries most detexerous player and
probable winner is Babe Stewart;
possible threat is stone-waller Henry Reardon.

 

INTERFACULTY HOCKEY SCHEDULE
Thursday, Feb. 2—Arts & Science vs. Frosh.

 

Friday, Feb. 3

Medical vs. Law.
Tuesday, Feb. 7—Frosh vs.

Dental.

Thursday, Feb. 9--Law vs. Engineers.
Tuesday, Feb. 14—Medical vs. Engineers.
Thursday, Feb. 16—Arts & Science vs. Dental.
All games 6—7 p.m. at Arena.

__

Thought of the week: You can tell,

a freshette because she says, “Stop!”
You can tell a freshman because he
stops.— Ubyssey.

BENNETT—
(Continued from page one)

emotion, and with tears rising to his
eyes at the last sentence:

“How can I thank you for coming
here today? I can’t, I simply can’t.
All I can say is, “Thank you”, with
all my heart.

I say to you, as I sail, what I said
in another city, which does not mean

as much to me as Halifax, with the
little college on the hill:

‘Fare well, and if forever,
Still forever, fare thee well.”

 
   

FAILURES wy

Do your work regularly and be sure

are costly—don’t take chances.

 

A police surgeon in Philadelphia
Says one is sober if he is able to say
“Susie sat in the soup.” The one I
wonder about is Susie——Sheaf.

ATTENTION—

(Continued from page one)
party to swell the round of festivities to nearly bursting (or boiling)
point. You must come. Only $1.—
one dollah—per couple; i.e., for two
people, like me and Sally—get it?

Honourable Mr. Naugler is swinging the down beat for all you jitterbugs and ickies (see glossery). It’s
in the Lower Gym on Tuesday, the
seventh at nine o’clock. “We'll be
awfully glad to see you,” say the
Newman Club-ites.

Glossery: come on Tuesday night

land find out!

you are doing the right work—use College Outlines to guide you—

send for our free catalogue.

THE BOOK EXCHANGE

Canada’s Book-Clearing House”

___370 Bloor St. W.,

Toronto, Ontario

eee

  
     
   

MACLEOD, BALCOM, LIMITED
DRUGGGISTS

Halifax, Sheet Harbour and Kentville, N. S.

 

 
   

 

DELEGATES—

(Continued from page one)
report at the next session, and, de
pending on their nature, the assembly may pass resolutions on the
subject.

Other major subjects to be discussed include The Student and
Industry, The Student and Control
of Society, and Canada’s Foreign
Policy. While it is not required of
Dalhousie representatives that they
take a prepared speech on these
subjects they are expected to take
an active part in the discussion in
the smaller groups. For further information attend the meeting Friday
night, or get in touch with either of
the Co-chairman of the Canadian
Student Assembly, Anne Hirsch, or
Glynn Firth. John Dickey, President of Sodales, will be chairman at
the meeting in the Murray Homestead.

 

INSANITY FAIR—
(Continued from page 2)
again ... or hand over the British

. . ° |
Empire in installments to Germany.” |

Postscript
The greatest Empire in the world’s
history, believe it or not, has begun

 

    

NOTICES

Student Conference

The first study group in preparation for the Maritime University
Student Conference will be held this
evening in the Murray Homestead at
7.30. Those wishing to apply to go
as delegates must attend.

 

 

Open House

Delta Gamma Open House will be
held at Shirreff Hall Saturday
evening, Feb. 11. Eligible to attend:
Delta Gamma member plus escort.

 

Connolly Shield:

All organizations planning to compete for the Connolly Shield on
Feb. 15 kindly communicate with
the Glee Club at once to arrange
for rehearsal time in the Gym,
stage set-ups, and properties.

 

Dawson Club:

The Dawson Club will meet Saturday evening, not Saturday afternoon, as stated in The Bulletin.

 

Students’ Council

Students’ Council will meet Sunday afternoon at 2.30 in the Men’s
Common Room, Arts Building.

 

Dancing Class

First mixed dancing class will be
held Friday night at 7.30 in the
Lower Gym. See Miss Wray if you
want to join.

Band
Complete turn-out of band members requested for the hockey game

a process of decline over which the Class ’39

historians of the future will shake

incredulous heads—and the process Arts Building
3

began in Bohemia. This was the last
boat and you have missed it. Your
leaders are more frightened of those
hook-nosed and bearded crooks far

Monday night at the Arena at
eight o’clock.
Meeting of Class ’89, Room 3,

Tuesday, Feb. 7, 1939.

Orchids to George Hagen, Don
Storey, Harry Smith, Henry Ross,

away—ah, deary me, what should Art Ormiston, Ted Thorne, Gordon
idee ili. Aviitionk» case. <Redasnctima. de Daley, Gordon Hiseler, and Profes
dishonour. A Government elected by
an overwhelming majority of English people to succour small nations
against aggression has, with solemn
and righteous words, successively
sanctioned the rope of Abyssinia, of
Spain, of Austria, of Czechoslovakia.
ES * *

Fade Out

“T have taken you a long way
round Insanity Fair and kept you
waiting far too long at some of the
sideshows, which interested me, and)
have megaphoned my opinions about |
them at you until you must be nearly |
deaf, and most irritable . .. Let’s
go, taking a last look back as we
pass ... Look at the people on the
Foreign Policy Roundabouts, going |
round and round at the Westminster
Sideshow; he marches and marches
but stays always where he is. Hark
to the shrieks coming from the
League house, with its collapsing
stairway paved with good resolutions
. » » Look at the crowds, shuffling, |
shoving, watching the three-cardtrick man bemusedly, listening with

 

 

sor Curtis for their hard work in
connection with the Bennett celebration last Saturday noon.

sheepish grins to the cocksure
shoman following him _ sheep-like
when he turns and leads the way
into the tent.”

 

First Student (who has studied
at the University of Toronto): “If
Dal only had a Hart House.”

Second Student: “What do you
call Shirreff Hall?”

 

 

 

AT ANY TIME—

A hot or cold drink, a
satisfying lunch, a delicious Steak, an Oyster Stew, or anything
else you crave, is here
for you at any time.

BLAKELEY’S

43 SPRING GARDEN ROAD

 

C. P. BLAKELEY, Prop.

a

 

 

FOR VARIETY

Neilson's

eee ae ae

 

     

DELICIOUS
FLAVORS

LEMON
ORANGE
STRAWBERRY
VANILLA
BORDEAUX

 

Cc. 3710

ae ne a 