   
      
 

|
:

ae 8

 

a te

ii a
i So

 
 
   
  
  

on “Socialism in New Zealand”,

| ra _ Pressure of Studies Given As
b's. Reason.

Rehearsals stopped abruptly last

- Tuesday when it was announced that

“Ali Baba”, Freshman wonder spec
- tacle, had been postponed until some

time after Christmas. The reason
given for the Executive’s sudden de
i cision was that November 25th, the

scheduled date for the production,
was too close to the exams.

No little discontent has resulted
from the postponement and it is believed that the Executive received a
certain amount of friendly advice
from the Faculty to aid them in
reaching their decision.

EXECUTIVE TO AMUSE

STUDENTS With FARCE

 

So that the pre-Christmas season
might contain at least two productions, a program for November 30
is being rushed through. Details
about this program are as yet a bit
vague. The Executive itself will
present in competition for the Connolley Shield a play (?) called
“Mariposa Bung, or The Belle of the
‘Frowsy Emma’.” “Mariposa” will

be cast, produced, directed, stage-set,
lit, and made-up by the members of
Glee Club Executive.
the

program will probably include
selections by the Choral Society,

 

ys eeeices :

é. cing future when the pst rises

on the first act of ‘a Glee ‘Club Show

*y - the auditorium doors will be closed.
_ Late comers will be admitted be-|

_ tween acts only.

 

Professor C. L. Bennet will speak
in
room 3, Arts Building, next Tues
day, Nov. 22nd, at 12 o’clock.

 

Students’ Directory:

_ Students whose addresses or telephone numbers are incorrect in the
Students’ Directory are asked to
notify the editors of the Directory,
or members of the Gazette staff.

 

RUGBY
Interfaculty football final: Law
vs. Meds, Saturday, November 19,
at 1 p.m.

 

BULLETIN
Mastications for publishing the
Dalhousie News Bulletin must be in
to Murray Renkin by Wednesday,
Nov. 28.

 

WARNING
During this term there have been
thefts of valuables left in overcoats
in the Gym locker rooms and in the
cloak rooms. Students are advised
therefore not to leave any valuables
in their coat pockets.

 

GAZETTES NEEDED
There have been requests for
‘copies of the Gazette of Oct. 14—
the memorial issue to Dr. Mackenzie. As there are none left in the
office, the staff would appreciate it

F _ if some students who have copies

Ty

; ~ of this issue which they can spare

would hand them in at the Gazette

be : P office.

  
   

 

The rest of

ip face or Ban _as

yg SSS

   
  
   
   
 
  
  
  

In the Law Courts

England.

Considerable discussion took place
in the Moot Court Room last Tuesday when an appeal was heard from
the decision of Mr. Justice MacDonald in the ease of Taylor v.
Kinnon. This was a western case in
which the point to be decided was
whether two girls of ten and twelve
years of age waived their rights to
have professional care and skill applied when they attended a Moler
Hair-dressing School. After the
usual line from the junior counsel
Lyon Kaufman, regarding the well
merited appointment of the Bench,
Gordon Thompson, K.C., argued for
the appellant, and G. J. Bingham,
K.C., for the respondent. The girls
in the case had gone to the Hairdressing School to get a three dollar
job done for ninety-five cents, and
had been badly burnt in the process.
Mr. Thompson, K.C., argued that
since the girls paid less they were
entitled to less than that degree of
skill and care used by professionals.
Counsel for the other side held that
since they paid less they were entitled to less skill but just as much
care. The Bench, composed of Gillis,
L. C. J., and Lord Justices Sutherland and Karrell appeared to agree
with Mr. Bingham, and disallowed
the appeal. Unfortunately no one in
the court understood just what
women have to put up with in order

_(Continued on page 8)

ss V. “‘SAdvertising Contest

Dalhousie has been included in the
list of ten Canadian Universities

which have been invited by N. W.

Ayer and Co. to submit advertise
ments featuring the Ford V-8 for

use in college newspapers during
1939. Five advertisements will be

selected from the entries received

and for each of the best five, the
Ayer agency will pay $50.00. All
five become the property of the Ford
Motor Company of Canada, Limited.
Reproduction will include the name
and class of the author-artist. Unsuccessful drawings will be returned
to the publication office.

There are no limitations on subject, except that the phrase “Ford
V-8” must appear somewhere in the
illustration or caption. Insertion
dates will be during February,
March and April, 1939. Idea is more
important than Art, but other things
being equal, good drawings will, of
course, be given preference. It may

(Continued on page 3)

OPEN INVITATION

With the aim of _ providing
spiritual fellowship for Christian
students in educational institutions,
the Inter-Varsity Christian Fellowship (I.V.C.F.) has now established
headquarters in Halifax for activities in the Maritime Provinces. The
Secretary, Viola Cameron, is forming a Dalhousie Fellowship at the
present time, and meetings are being held temporarily at 63 Spring
Garden Road. All are welcome. The
schedule of weekly meetings, with
subjects to be discussed, is listed

below.

The I.V.C.F. had its beginnings at
Cambridge University, England, in
1870 and is in every university in
It has very active groups
(Continued on page 4)

   

  
    

Miss Charlotte Whitton

Social Service Expert'
. _,.-. | political
most fascinating |

One of the
speakers which Canada possesses
will give an address at Dalhousie
next week. This is Miss Charlotte

Canadian Welfare Council and Canadian Delegate to the League of
Nations Committee on Social problems.
has done so much to promote the

cause of social justice in Canada as)

Miss Whitton. As a speaker, as a
writer and editor, and recently as

she has endeavoured to improve the
conditions of the under privileged
classes.

Those whe attend Miss Whitton’s lecture at Dalhousie will hear
one of the finest social experts and
a most charming speaker. Her topic
is “Social Services in Canada”. The
lecture will be given Tuesday,
November 22, at 8 o’clock in the
Chemistry Theatre. Admission is
free.

Vlastos to Be Leader

Students of the Maritime Provinces will meet those of the New
England colleges in a conference
during the Christmas holidays, from
Dec. 27th to Jan. Ist. The gathering will be near Portland, Maine, or
in New Hampshire, and convenes
under the auspices of the Student
Christian Movements of both regions.

Under the leadership of Gregory
Vlastos the international group will
focus its attention on the dynamic
and imperative religion.

Dr. Vlastos is a professor in the
Theological College of Queen’s Uni
 

versity and has been a stimulating |

leader for many students. This fall
he returned from a year in Europe
in the course of which he visited
many countries, including Greece,
Spain, Russia and Germany.

There will be a number of secretaries present from the two regions
and it is intended that they will
help in smaller discussion groups.
For discussion will’ be the order of
the day, with vigorous exchange of
ideas and informal opportunities to
become acquainted.

The afternoons are to be free for
recreation, winter sports, or what
you will. Singing will be popular
and part of the program planned is

| parties.

There is hardly anyone who)

 

 

purely cultural in nature. Many

graduates and students in Canada

have found through conferences a
(Continued on page 3)

Capital Close-up

By ROSS MUNRO
C.U.P. Correspondent

 

Ottawa, Nov. 14.— Many old-line
Conservatives here view the Republican revival in the United States
elections as a portent of the times
and an optimistic sign for the Tory
party in this country.

While it is interpreted broadly as
a revolt against the New Deal and
no parallel can be drawn in Canada,
it is considered by some authorities
that the underlying cause for the
Republican come-back was a trend

in public opinion towards a more
conservative form of democratic)
government.

With an election likely in Canada|

next fall, any indication of voting
sentiment, even in a neighboring
country, is a valuable asset to the
pundits that

of the various

courses Canadian

American vote closely, with the

, : | Tories apparently deriving the most
Whitton, Executive Director of the | ead: m, & nO

satisfaction by a hypothetical com
parison between the obvious trend |
of American public opinion and the |
_Languages to supplement his musi
possibility that such a trend also
will become more evident in

Dominion,

While the Liberal Government’s |

|'Roy Lucas

=<ette

 

No. 8

Film Society Marches On

Fare Well At Dalhousie

Few Dalkousians realize that we
have attending our university several students from the School for

the Blind, and fewer still realize in
how many faculties they are represented.

In Art’s we had Willa Reid from
Cassilis, N. B., who graduated with
a B.A., last spring and is now working in the Halifax Office of the
Canadian Institute for the Blind.
from New Glasgow,
Lowell Legge from  Robinson’s,

 

| working towards his master’s

chart the’!

So they are studying the |

the |

Newfoundland, and Tom Hinch from
Halifax, also graduated with a B.A
last spring. Lowell Legge is now

dehave
George,

gree. As an undergraduate we
George Macleod from St.
N. B.

One of the most interesting stu
dents in Arts came out here as a
‘Special Student.

His name is Ivan
Gillies. He was not working towards a degree but was taking some
classes in English and Modern

cal training. He is a fine pianist
and won a cup three years running
at the Martime Musical Festival. He

legislation is anything but radical, | holds his cup now as a permanent

indicated recently that the party
would fight the next election on a
general reform issue and Hon. R. J.
Manion has made several fighting

i i | trophy.
adviser to the Rowell Commission, the Conservative high command has Te

Unfortunately, he is not
with us this year. He went over to
London to study for his A.R.C.M. at
the Royal College of Music.

In Education we had Merton Mar
speeches in which he seemed to| gison from Woodstock,N. B., who

favor a more aggressive—even radical approach—to Canadian problems
than the old-time Conservative policies,

Possibly the Republicans’ showing will tend to make the Tories
here retain their old policy
staunch conservatism in its entirety,
The emphasis might no longer be put
on progressive social legislation but
on the old argument of tariff protection and like questions. There
are some observers here who maintain that by expounding the traditional Tory beliefs without new
frills, the party can pull itself from
its present demoralized state and
the embarrassing situation of having less than 40 members in the

Commons while the Liberals have |

a record majority of nearly 180.

While speculation and rumor about
the visit of the King and Queen
next May 15 to June 10 prove the
feature attraction on Parliament
Hill, vague reports are heard that.
the Hon. W. D. Herridge, brotherin-law of Rt. Hon. R. D. Bennett |
and former Canadian Minister to|
Washington, will lead a _ reform!
party at the next Federal election. |

Some reports indicate that a

| prominent Ottawa editor has en- |

dorsed his platform and a leading |
Halifax publisher might also lend |
public support to the new ventana |
in politics. Premier Aberhart of Al-|
berta told an Edmonton meeting he |
would approve such a reform party.

During his residence in Washington, Mr: Herridge made many
friends among the “brain trusters”
of that time and his knowledge of
economic theory is considered to be
greatly affected by their opinions.
In brief, Mr. Herridge’s economic

(Continued on page 3)

 

of |

received his Certificate last year and
is now teaching school in Ingonish,
Cape Breton. This year Roy Lucas
is returning to get his certificate

' also.

In Law, we have Delmar Amiro,
a French Acadian from Lower East
Pubnico, who also should represent
the Commerce Faculty for he received his B, Comm., last year.

We are proud to have these students with us at the University and
would like to wish them every success in the future.

iaditanid ‘Students

There

 

Unfortunately, through no fault of
the Film Society, difficulties arose
which forced the cancellation of
Sasha Guitry’s “Pearls of the
Crown” scheduled to be presented on
Friday, Nov. 18th. Tentative plans
have been made to present a picture
on Thursday, Nov. 24th, at 8.15 p.m.
in the Gymn. However, this is not
definite. Posters will be put up before that date announcing the first
presentation. As yet a picture has
not been chosen for that date.

The legal difficulties encountered
in getting foreign pictures were
troublesome enough, but not half as
disheartening and discouraging as
the very poor student support.
are large film societies at
the four provincial universities of
Western Canada, at Queens, Toronto
and McGill. One reason for starting
this society, if for no other, is t
bring Dalhousie in line with other

| leading Canadian Universities in this

respect. To date, less than 10% of
the Student Body has shown any
interest in the matter whatsoever.
In spite of this the executive has
decided to go ahead and present four
pictures during the year.

The pictures to be presented, and

 

the dates on which they are to be

shown will be published ir a bulletin °

to be issued within the next few
days. It is to be hoped that the
student body will read the aims and

plans of the society as stated below

in this bulletin. After reading them,
they can no longer say that they
“hadn’t heard a thing about it” or
“didn’t know what it was all about.”

Briefly, the aims of. the society
are these:

1. To bring to the students of
this University, pictures which have
achieved world recognition for their
artistic value.

2. To give Dalhousie students a
chance to see the pictures of foreign
countries, which are never brought.
to theatres either in this city or in
the Maritime provinces. Contrary
to popular belief the pictures can

(Continued on page 4)

 

A\rts and Science Hold
Spirited Meeting

 

Dr. and Mrs. Nichols Host

Hearty handshakes and renewal of
old acquaintances were the order of

 

land students were entertained by |

ithe day at 248 Tower Road on
Sunday afternoon when Newfound
Dr. and Mrs. Nichols. Dal., Tech.,
Mt. St. Vincent, Pine Hill, Maritime
Business College, Mt. A. and Acadia
| were all represented at the gathering which proved a great success.

Following a delicious afternoon
tea one and all joined in a sing song
which concluded with “For they are
jolly good fellows” and “The Ode to
Newfoundland”. Walter Sellars and
| Marg. Barron furnished the music|
|while it has not yet been decided
whether Allan Barret or Gordon
Tibbs led the singing.

The Newfoundlanders are very
grateful to Dr. and Mrs. Nichols for
the way in which they entertained

 

them, and for their interest in the
Newfoundland Club of Halifax and

Newfoundland students in general.

 

THE CLASS OF °42 INVITES YOU ALL TO ATTEND

UPPER GYM

| REFRESHME NTS"

NOVELTIES

TRE PreotMAN FROLIC

NOVEMBER 25th

DANCING
®

 

 

Amid calls for a recount and accusations of railroading, the Constitution of the Arts and Scierice Society was adopted on a motion made
by Lloyd Dalton, seconded by Inez
Smith, after discussion had raged
for nearly an hour on but one point:

“The treasurer shall collect two
dollars from each member of the
Freshman Class entering the University. These dues will entitle the
payee to full membership in the Arts
and Science Society so long as he
fulfills all the qualifications for
membership.

The funds which shall be administered by the executive shall be used
for the support of all activities
undertaken by the Arts and Science
Society.”

The meeting opened in a formal
manner, the presence of Dean Nick
erson of Arts and Science, Professor
Bennet of the Registrar’s Office, and
Dr. Hugh Bell appeared to restrain

(Continued on page 4)

9 to 1

75c, COUPLE

“UODUTINULNSOOINSOVUNSO DAU ULASOUA AUN UA NY en

 

 

 

Fis
atte: Semen

 
      
 
   

 Wimaded 1869. “The Oldest College Paper in America”
views expressed in any column of The Gazette are those of the author; it cannot be
ee shat fey represent the opinion of the student body.

Printed by McCurdy Printing Co., Ltd., Argyle St.
GAZETTE STAFF

<i

Editor: BERNARD GRAHAM - - - - -_ B-5033
News Editor: WALTER MURPHY - - - 58-5191
Asst. News Editor: BARBARA MURRAY - -  H-5152
Sports Editor: DOUGLAS LYALL - =  B-2607
Business Manager: SIDNEY A. GILLIES - - B-5487

| Associates: Marjorie MacLean, Jim Milner, Betty Pearson, Lily Hirsh,
- Bob Swansburg, Henry Reardon, Carl MacKenzie, Rita Harrison,

Jackie Cahan, Mary Hayman.

PRESSURE OF STUDIES?

Calling off the Freshman Glee Club Show has given rise

_to several questions which may seem trite or irrelevent to those

in the know”, but certainly not to the average student. Why

was the show not ready for presentation before this? Why has

it now been postponed until after Christmas? Will the mem
bers of the cast do more studying now that rehearsals are over
_ for this term?

:. The first question probably can be answered only by those
- directly responsible for the conduct of rehearsals. One hears
reports of time wasted in providing for the directing of the
_ show, and stories of freshmen not concentrating on the job on

hand when at rehearsals.

~~ _._- It is alleged that the show was postponed because rehearsals

_ interferred seriously with the studies of the members of the
cast, and that the faculty recommended this course of action.

‘We acknowledge that there may be a few freshmen with

Fe

{Pied rig

 

eee heavy courses and with interests and responsibilities in several
WA extra-curricular activities. We grant that every extra hour

_ Spent at rehearsals or elsewhere by such students may interfer
F ae _ with their studies. For most students, and especially freshmen,
the greatest menace to studies is probably their own inefficiency and lack of discipline. They waste more time dilly-dallying
around and frittering away their time than they spend thinking
.about studying, and many spend more time thinking about
rae _ studying and how much they have to do than they ever give to
Bi ite _ study itself. Freed from going to rehearsals most students will
have more time to spend, but how many will spend it on
By studies?
utd This discussion of the use of our time brings to mind some
__ things written to freshman (but applying to all of us) a few
_ years ago by a Dalhousie grad, who was very active in student
_ affairs twelve or fifteen years back. She wrote:
yt ‘In selecting activities consider the contacts that will be
_ made: try to meet other than classmen, other than those in your
own social scale, other than those who hold opinions similar to
our own. But of course these ought not to exclude the deitful profits found in contacts with intimates.)
_ ‘Analyse the nature of the activity you choose: (a) does it
ing a (b) does it allow

 

 
 
 
  
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
    
 
   

pose pence, @bilesephical clubs, etc.); (c) does it offer
ew ligh (d) does it have any

~ vitalizin ng } pur ‘pose, or is it merely a traditional society which
FY | is Su) posedly ought not to die? (e) does it allow self-expression
es ee in speech and action, but in the creative satisfaction

. Sat impulses? ....

‘From my own experiences of “a ceaseless round of activities” I should now deduce the following:

‘T lost too much by not doing the extra reading. All the
versatility in the world could not make up for my lack of
_ information and constructive thinking ability when I found
- myself in a group of trained thinking people.

‘I believe the activities which confined me to my own social
and intellectual group were of least value—I met these people
naturally, everywhere—and that the activities of most value

were those which gave complete change from mental exercise,
__ those which threw me with “different” people, and those which
directly aided in meeting personal problems.
‘The “incidentals” piled too high. I was truly shocked
_ when I counted the number of parties I had attended within one
_ college year. If I had limited my support of incidentals I should
_ have enjoyed them more and given myself the needed time for
rest and study.

‘I have no regrets that extra-curricular activities at college
played such a large part in my life there ... But I have regrets
that too frequently my academic activities became a matter of
heavy concentration at the end .

‘At the end of three months, every freshman would do well
to jot down his hopes and aims, and then place beside them just
what has happened in this field of extra-curricular demands.
And when he forms his purpose anew, let him make them in
_- aecordance with his own capacity, his intellectual and social
+ eontacts, his desire to learn new facts and to think con
- structively.’

haha EXERPTS
| “THRICE A STRANGER”
By VERA BRITTAIN

When I read this book a few
- months ago, I copied down a few
- amusing anecdotes, with which the
author interspersed her very interesting story of her three visits to
America. Rumaging through my
_ desk, I found them, and here they
are, as written in my scribbler.

“Thank God”, exclaimed the student, mopping his brow.

 

Some one once said of Chicago,
“We haven’t taken up culture yet,
but when we do we’ll make it hum.”

 

The Scotch minister who prayed:
“Grant, oh Lord, that we may always
be right: for Thou knowest we will
never change our minds.”

 

 

A. E. Housman was lecturing to
a mixed audience of students at
one a case because it confused him to Cambridge when his topic required
hear the other. him to describe the matrimonial
sf ‘3 Rett ie problems of a primitive community
‘st _ The student who rushed excitedly in the South Sea Isles.

: p to a famous geologist at the con-| “It’s difficult,” he said, “for men

tusion of his lecture on the coal-!to make satisfactory domestic ar“fields of America. rangements, because women are so

_ “Did you really say that American| few. Even the ladies from Newham
Sera resources are going to be ex-|and Girton* would have a_ good
- Thausted in a 1000 years?” chance of marriage if they went

. “Why no!” replied the lecturer.| there.”

v7 “te was 10,000 years that I said.”

‘There was the judge who said he
“never listened to more than one side

 

 

pies

 

‘ ae ef
| oN

 

: ee a of classroom thinking? ? (usually the pur-|

One or two women students, deep
DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Obiter —

Our esteemed editor informs me
that inquiries havebeen made to him
about the meaning of the word
“obiter”. Now I should have thought
that everyone at a college requiring
Latin for a bachelor’s degree in Arts
would know the meaning of such a
simple, six letter, three syllable
word. However, to give due consideration, I have made a complete
investigation into its history, and I
plan to give you the highlights.

To begin with, it is, I believe, a
Latin (a dead language used once by
a group of people calling themselves
Romans. These people had something, and they passed’ it down
through the ages. That something,
so far as I can determine, was either
a fine system of jurisprudence, or
Latin. For the sake of peace, shall.
we say it was Latin?) word. If you
were to consult the Pocket Oxford
Dictionary, (Oxford University
Press, 1934) you would find the word
used, on page 541, with another
Latin word “dictum”, and you will
also find a definition given. An
“obiter dictum”, according to this
authority, is a “casual remark,
especially a judge’s opinion, expressed incidentally and without binding
force.” For our purposes we can say
that the first word means “incidentally”. If we look further, as I did,
we would see the derivation, which is
(L,—thing said by the way.) L
stands for Latin. In a sentence,
then, to quote a well known professor, we may say that “obiter” means
“by the way”. Besides, that is what
White gives in his “Latin Dictionary”, and he should know. (Concerning the use of the expression
“obiter dictum,” see Roget; and if
you are abnormally interested, see
Fowler’s Modern English Usage.” I
did, and he doesn’t mention the
words. I guess he discusses only
strictly English words like “interior”
(page 280).) And by the way, the
word appears to be one of the post
Augustine origin. For further information send a self addressed
envelop to anyone but me.

Restatement of English

A propos, (which is, incidentally,
the French equivalent to the Latin
“obiter”; there appears to be no
Greek equivalent.) have you ever
considered how illogical many of our
English expressions turn out to be?
Take for instance, these two: “quite
a few” and “of course”. We will
suppose you had a big night last
night, and you are asked: “How
many times did you kiss her?” and
you reply, “Quite a few”. Now
doesn’t that sound ridiculous? (AlIthough very pleasant, of course.)
Suppose she had asked you, (last
night) “Will you kiss me?” and you
said, “Of course”. Now it is clear
that example two is just as right as
example one is wrong. I mean
grammatically, not morally. “Quite”
is superlative, absolute; “few” is es
definite. Maybe it means completely or absolutely not many times.
Still it sounds rather cockeyed. Now |
example two merely means that you |
will do so as a matter of ordinary
procedure of events. According to
Fowler, “of course” means presuma- |
bly, admittedly. As in the sentence: |
“Of course there are some questions
which you could not have answered, ‘Of course.’”. These are only
two examples, but if you want any
more, and I suppose you don’t, send
a second request on the self addressed card. This just goes to show that
English as she is writ and English
as Mr. Fowler would have us write
it are two very different things.
Pity the poor Frenchmen, they were
not born with any knowledge of
English, yet some of them, particularly in this country,have to learn
it. Now learning French, as compared with learning English, is (I
was told in French classes) very
easy. It would seem only fair then,
that we should drop English in
Canada and speak French alone. Or
would it? J. B. M.

 

 

 

 

ly offended, got up to leave the
lecture as a protest, but Housman
forestalled them. Coming down from
the platform, he opened the door for

them, adding politely:
“There’s no hurry, ladies, no
hurry whatever! The next boat

doesn’t leave until Friday afternoon.”
*Newham and Girton are women’s
colleges at Cambridge.
F. F.8.

The saddest are:

 

Dalhousie Digest

 

Might-have-been:

“Saddest words of tongue or pen,

It hight have
been.”

These words have a _ particular
sting not only for those who have
failed, but chiefly for those who have
succeeded but know that they have
not done their best.

Gloomy and dreary are the words
“Might-have-been, no-more, too-late,
farewell” and many a university student, called “successful” by his fellows and the world, knows well that
his most accurate description would
be “Might-have been”.

They are few for whom the words
“Might-have-been” have not a
mournful meaning, but the students
who fail will appreciate their sting
more than any of us.

To fail, because a student lacks

| power to succeed, or energy, or in
herent ambition, or improperly
functioning glands, is no disgrace.
The real disgrace is with the
student for whom mental equipment,
heredity, and environment have
made everything possible, and who
fails, not having done his best.

 

Jack:

I think the original was “All work
and no play makes Jack a dull fellow”, or something like that. A

‘later version is “All work and no

play makes Jack”. But the best of
the paraphrases I know is “All play
and no work takes Jack”.

 

Antiquity:

Extreme old age has been ascribed
by various experts to drinking
Bulgarian milk; to the use of wine
or tobacco, or to abstaining from
using them; to an all-vegetable diet
or to an all meat one; to drinking
plenty of water or to drinking very
little of it.

About the only thing, however,
that science seems able to agree on
is the story of the elderly gentleman
who was asked this year to what he
attributed his age of one hundred
years. “It undoubtedly is due”, he
replied, “to the fact that I was born
in 1838”.

 

There are many mornings when
some of us would like to forego the
little formality of shaving off the
night’s growth of whiskers; but
pride and custom speak with powerful voices and so we submit, though
perhaps not cheerfully, to the ordeal.

But if we had belonged to the
army of Alexander the Great, we
would have shaved clean for a reason quite different. Alexander wanted his Macedonian soldiers to shave
clean, as he did, that the enemy’s
left hand be not given a grip on the
beard, while his right hand cut off
the head.

REVIEW

“THE OLD CENTURY”
by Siegfried Sassoon
Faber and Faber. 1938.

Siegfried Sassoon’s new book is an
autobiography of his first twentyone years. Everyone who enjoyed
his George Sherton series will enjoy
this new book, but perhaps not for
the same reason as they enjoyed his
novels.

“The Memoirs of a Fox-Hunting
Man” and this new autobiography
cover approximately the same period
in a boy’s life and yet the treatment

used in the two books is fundament- '

ally different. Sassoon’s new book
is disconnected, as any true autobiography must be, for interesting
events in real life are never related.
On the other hand the strength in
the “Memoirs of a Fox-Hunting
Man” springs from its unity and
purpose. There is none of this

a ee
ES
SEEN

1938

November 18,

“So many candles are embarrassing.”
“You wouldn't mind if they were Sweet Caps.”

SWEET CAPORAL CIGARETTES

“The purest form in which tobacco can be smoked.”

 

CHALLENGER

The watch with hands
on time. Its fine movement famous lor long life
and accuracy. Handsome
cases styled to complement smart men and
women.

Sold and serviced by
Birks from coast to coast.

HENRY BIRKS AND
SONS LIMITED

Diamond Merchants
Halifax, N. S.

 

It’s a Pleasure

You'll find this a pleasant place to dine, lunch
or quench your thirst,

and the prices are reasonable.

The
Green Lantern

407-409 Barrington St.

MACLEOD, BALCOM, LIMITED
DRUGGGISTS

Halifax, Sheet Harbour and Kentville, N. S.

 

GAUVIN AND GENTZEL

Photographers to Dalhousie University

Special Rates to Students — 24 Hour Finishing Service

18 SPRING GARDEN ROAD

Phone B 6992

 

 

strength in “The Old Century”. As
a matter of fact I don’t suppose that
any person who has not read some
of Sassoon’s books already will be
the least interested in this autobiography but I do think, that there
are some which can be judged on
their own merits.

People have always thought of
George Sherston as being synonomous with Siegfried Sassoon. Now,
however, this opinion will have to be
revised and the view will probably
be taken that the earlier memoirs
give a picture of the youth that
Sassoon wished he had lived rather
than that which he actually lived.

:

 

 

 

 

The Nova Scotia Technical College

Offers Engineering Courses

in

CIVIL, ELECTRICAL, MECHANICAL, and MINING
To Dalhousie Students with Engineering Diplomas.

Modern Equipment, Instructing Staff with Individual Experience.
Twenty Free Scholarships of $75.00 each for Nova Scotian Students.

Write or call for Calender or advice to
F. H. SEXTON, President.

 

atonia

Pyjamas
AT 2.00 suit

Smooth English cotton
broadcloth that adds plenty
to your sleep comfort.
They’re cut on extra full
lines to provide for twisting and turning. Kite front
with frog trim or lapel collar styles. Short patterns.
Sizes 36 to 44,

Also Heavy English Flannelette
EATONIA Pyjamas at 2.00 Suit

Eaton’s—Main Floor

“TEA

 

TON

MARITIMES

 

MEN! YOU WILL LIKE THESE |

 

oO |

LIMITED

 

 
  

Jalhousie Gazette: ‘not deserve seats on ‘the Council.
Be Which conclusion is probably true at
~| that. |

Girls at Dalhousie need awakening to a sense of their responsibility.
The direct influence which they exercise on the affairs of the campus
is almost negligible. Even the present female Council members (God
bless ’em) take no part in the discussions. They might as well not be
there. Nor is this year unique. Of
all the women members of the Council there have been probably no
more than two who were capable of
formulating definite opinions and
expressing them clearly.

Nor does all the fault lie with
the women. The situation is due just
as much to the unintelligent attitude displayed by the men on the
campus. Any opinion that does find
expression in a woman is automatically classified as female, which
means that it may be played with,
and laughed over, but never considered objectively for the wisdom
which it might contain.

It is this attitude which the proposed Constitution of the Arts and
Science Society upholds so smugly

up with ah ‘aden of cari,
et ers, and to my astonishment
d that the class to which all

_ With all due credit to those who
win their letters on the rugby field
te., I think that is a very narrow
out ook toward athletics. After all,
you award letters to the band, and
he dramatic club, under. supervision
* some responsible person, so why
not award “D’s” to the gymnastic
: lass under supervision of Professor
ig korhing. I am sure he is quite
~ atable of making a few rules and
| regulations whereby one could earn
a this coveted award.
4 e _ After all, gymnastics necessitates
co-operation of mind and body, and
| think that anyone who has spent
~ os appreciable amount of time on
_ the gym floor, participating in ad- yanced calisthenics,should be awardBy ed something in which he could look

re “back on in after years. and unthinkingly. I feel quite
t Yours truly, strongly that unless something
G. N., Arts 42. | rather radical is done, the situation

 

will perpetuate itself for ever. And
the something that should be done
is to throw the election of members
to the Council open equally to both
men and women. If there are women
worthy of being on the Council they
will not find the competition any
hindrance. And if there are such
women, then, as I have said before,
the Council and the Student Body
are better off without their representation.

It is for this reason that I have
addressed a letter to the Gazette, in
the hope that there may be others
who see the problem in the same
light as I do.

Yours sincerely,
SUFFRAGETTE.

CO-EDS TO DATE MEN
| IN NOVEL PLAN

aieseeaa ge td 14—(CUP) Officially sanctioned by the Women’s
Union, “Sadie Hawkins Week” will
| get under way at McGill this Friday
and will terminate with the Spinsters’ Spree on Friday, November
25. In a statement, Peggy Lamb,
President of the Women’s Union,
said last night: “There is no reason
why Sadie Hawkins Week should not
be a success at McGill if every girl
co-operates and enters into the right
spirit of it,”

Blind Dates Likely

From all this developed the plan
to have co-eds date men for a whole
week. Starting Friday, co-eds will
do the inviting and will foot the bills.
It is expected that “blind” dates will
be in order, for the only necessary
introduction via the telephone
will be, “This is Sadie Hawkins
speaking.”

In a survey last Friday, the Daily

Editor of Dalhousie Gazette.
‘Dear Sir,—I note with disgust
that the proposed Constitution of
the Arts and Science Society provides for separate election of men
-___ and women to the Students’ Council.
- Such segregation is absurd in any
-_ eo-educational institution worthy of
its name. Presumably the intention
ig to ensure adequate representation
of both sexes on the Council. The
fact that definite measures must be
ha taken to ensure such an equality is
E> Surely: an indication of the weakness
of the system. If, as it seems to be
_ generally believed, girls could not
win any seats on the Council in
ng | competition with men, then girls do

x

 

Ww Who “be — are shall be my
me beau?
_ Sings Hattie. —
Rah! Rah!! no more football!!!
bs S Hattie wandered up to Acadia in a
- bus and had a wonderful time. The
goons up there thought she was one
of the team when she got there.
After we saw the game we weren’t
surprised at their mistake. Tsk!
ey
She is all excited about the Med
ball. We are beginning to wonder
if she won a ticket in a lucky dip
__ into pop’s pants pocket. Any way
she is going and perhaps some stupe
_ did ask her.
P - Hattie is most perturbed now ’cos
they left her name out of the stu_ dent’s directory. We had a great
_ time restraining her from sending
. circulars to all the faculties, and ex. _ plaining that her telephone number
Ny _ on her placard had sufficed. Right
now she is busy, desperately snatch_ ing a date from the directory lists,
a _ but while there are still some names
she'll get to the freshman frolic yet.

found that out of one hundred students questioned, 77 were in favor
of the novel week. A typical remark
by a co-ed was: “My dates will have
to be satisfied with coffee — just
coffe. Honestly, I’m broke.” An
Engineer said it was “a honey of an

idea” so long as Arts, Science,
Commerce, Medicine, Law and Den
tistry were excluded.

Toronto was the first to inaugurate a “Sadie Hawkins Week.” Since
then the idea has spread to other
campuses throughout the Dominion,
although speediest action has come
from McGill. According to reports,
success at Varsity has paved the
way for what may be an annual
institution.

The Spinsters’ Spree will serve as
a climax to the seven days at McGill
in which Co-eds will reign supreme.

 

D xavertiaing Contest—
ee _ (Continued from page one)

he helpful, but it is not necessary,
to secure from the nearest Ford
dealer, literature listing the principal
_ features of the 1989 Ford V-8. For
obvious reasons, no advertisement
which mentions or directly disparReices any other car can be considered.
_ Drawings should be sized to scale
_ to 8x10 in. They may be made in
- line, wash, air-brush, or any other

kc technique suitable for black and

 

white reproduction on newspaper
stock. You may submit as many
advertisements as you wish, but each
should | be plainly labeled, on the back

Melba: “How about buying your
ticket to the Delta Gamma dance
from me?”

Dot. S.: “Pll buy it from you a
little later.” :

2 “listed in case of collaboration. Melba: “I’ve been selling a lot to

p your advertisement and mail|the boys.” — ,
itt Dot. S.: “Are the boys buying
N is i Ayer & Son of Canada, Ltd.,| tickets? I thought the girls were

» 80 Richmond Street, W.,
ey. Toronto, Ontario.
° a E (Attention of Ross W. Booth)
by or before January 1, 1939.

supposed to pay.”
Melba: “Well, the boys are buying them.”

Dot. S.: “I guess I’ll wait!”

   
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
   
 
  
   
   
   
  
   
   
    
   
   
  
  
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
  
   
   
  
   
   
   
  
  
   
    
  
      
   
      
 
   
  
  
  
  
     
  
   
   
  
   
    
   
   
  
   
   
   
   
  
   
 
   
    
  
  
   
    
  

sss aaa ET

DALHOUSIE. GAZETTE

B9746 or B9745

You guessed it!  They’re the
Shirreff Hall phone numbers and
we'll bet anybody that they’re the
busiest ‘phones on the Campus—at
least we answer ours, which is more
than can be said for Kings’.

Had a very restful weekend at the
Hall! With Corky gone we missed
Doug. an awful lot! Work? What
do you think we are anyhow?

We’re still talking about our Hall
Dance. Pretty good, we think. If
you haven’t heard ask some of the
privileged males who were present
to tell you about the good music,
sweet eats, which made their appearance. Why we even had a member
of the teaching staff of K.C.S. in the
crowd—not that that helped anyone
but the “backwood” girl.

Hi de ho! d’you hear what happened Sunday? Denny went over
to Dartmouth—just to look around
and get acquainted with the place!
We hope it doesn’t mean anything
BILLIARDS: serious, but one never knows, does

Hillers have not forgotten the re-| one?
mark of Lord Chesterfield, that “the| One of the “very” young freshability to play a good game of bil-| ettes created a sensation in Gym
liards is the mark of a gentleman”.| Store Monday morning by snapping
Cue artists continue to click the balls) off the light switch that conrtols
morning, noon, and night. This! the nickelodeon. Will, these freshyear’s winner of the golden billiard} ettes never learn?
trophy is still in dispute. I pick Art| Are we going to the Med Ball, did
Ervin . .. and don’t say I didn’t} you say? No, and very few of us
tell you. Matchmaker and manager|have even had bids. Are we losing
George A. MacLeod has thirty-two | our appeal or is it the cash problem?
competitors lined up, and the lads; We hope it’s the latter. Delta
are frantically practising shots from| Gamma dance coming up soon and
all angles. No Resident can afford | everybody is deciding who everybody
to let his studies interfere with this} else should ask. We’ve also heard
auspicious occasion so start cheering | Tumours about a Freshman dance in
when the players start “chalking-|the Gym. (We’re just telling you,
up”. Visitors welcome. in case you hadn’t heard!)

We didn’t do anything much
Friday. Some of the girls went to
the Phi Kappa Phi Delt Football
Game. Margie Drummie seemed
slightly disappointed and little
Audrey rather pleased when Phi
Kappa won. That’s one we haven’t
bothered to figure out yet.

Did you have fun at Acadia? So
did we! There were only thirteen
at dinner here Saturday night. My!
my! suppose somebody had been
superstitious after Acadia. Altho’
we did like the place, we think Dal’s
O.K.—Shirreff Hall has it all over
“Tully”. Did you see Sally Spry
there and Hattie? Oh, you haven’t
guessed yet? Pardon us! Did you
see Pat and Wil-mer at the game?
Oh Boy! and Marj. and Don?

And Parksy with an engineer?
Somefun! Even we were there and
that-is sumpin. We were told we
wouldn’t know that Marjorie and
Jean had some trouble getting into
the game because they lacked “the
root of all evil’. Kinda tough, I
betcha!

We also betcha that we know
when to shut up! More stuff about
the rest of the kids next time—if
the editor lets us have another next
time. We haven’t even started to
tell you about the “wing’s” (and
we don’t mean the ones the little
Graham girl wears on her coat).
Cheerio!

Pie. Hill Billets

SWING IT:

Apropos of the annual Residence
dance it appears that about fifty
percent of the Hillers will gather at
the Waegwoltic Club on Coburg
Road some time within a fortnight
to “swing it”. MacKean, Condon
and Matheson are determined that
she shall have music, and are sparing no efforts to whip up enthusiasm.
It is no idle speculation to suppose
that unofficial invitations have already been sent far and wide. It is
suggested that an invitation bureau
be established for new men, but
judging from such elaborate female
portraits such as you see in Charlie
Burke’s room, such an institution
for such men is not at all necessary
—some of the frosh, however, would
surely appreciate it. This promising
and colorful event, even more so if
Pete Nicholson wears his new hat,
should have the patronage of the
majority. Girls wishing to attend
please remember that MacKean’s
phone number is B-9586.

 

ee sss sss...

 

ONE MAN IN A TUB:

Midnight baptisms, more commonly known as “tubbing parties”
have become as rare as wings on a
cat. This institution of the tub
which is intended for all residents
who do not “conduct themselves in a
manner becoming those who live in
a Residence” consists of an immersion of such a one in a cold tub of
water at some inconvenient hour of
the night or early morning. The
fact that no one has been “tubbed”
since Crowe would verify the effectiveness of such procedure and may
account for the good deportment of
frosh and others studying the rebellious spirit of Milton.

WANTED:

Wants of Hillers are many and
diversified: for example, some would
like to have an official theme writer
whom they would be glad to pay
$1.00 per theme guaranteed to bring
a “B” . .. others want a greater
collection of old themes . . . some
want tables without legs ... no one
wants salad dressing ... . the rarities
want to study ... and nearly everybody would like to have the money
that Wally MacPherson spends in
ferry tickets to Dartmouth

 

 

IN THE LAW COURTS
(Continued from Page One)

to be beautiful, and no expert evi
dence was called. Lord Justice

Sutherland was pinch hitting for

Lord Justice Baggs, who was detain
ed in the hospital.

Thursday afternoon before the
long week-end, Lord Chief Justice
Regan heard an appeal from the
case of Rex v. King. In that case
a very fine technicality of the law
was closely argued by Mr. HH. A. K.
Forbes, K.C., who represented the
accused, Mr. King, and Mr. George
Collins, K.C., who, represented the
Crown. The fine point involved was
whether a policeman, having been
told the contents of a parcel by a
confessed thief, but not having actually opened the parcel, although he
had the parcel in his possession,
could be said to have possession of
the contents in the eyes of the law.
Mr. Collins, K.C., after much argument, and a quotation or two in
Latin and Greek, convinced the Lord
Chief Justice and Lady Justice
Drummie that the policeman did not
have possession at law. After expressing the utmost respect for the
previous opinions, Lord Justice Milner dissented on two grounds. The
Lord Chief Justice was substituting
for Lord Chief Justice Swetnam,
who was out of town for the weekend.

 

CAPITAL CLOSEUP—
(Continued from page one)
thesis is that purchasing power of
the nation must be raised to the
nation’s productive capacity to in
sure stability. It might prove as

great a rallying cry during an election as the Aberhart appeal back
in 19385,

However, Mr. Herridge remains a
mysterious figure. He avoids newspapermen who seek interviews with
him in the capital about the party
and has made several rather mysterious trips to the Maritimes and
the West recently.

But what political groundwork he
might be laying, it certainly is not
for the salvation of the Conservative party. No Tory will ever forget or forgive Mr. Herridge for
standing resolutely on the platform
of the national Conservative convention here last July and telling
the delegates bluntly that their resolutions were “a lot of junk”. Then
he told them about his purchasing
power-production theory, but they
didn’t listen. Perhaps the electorate
will be swamped in economic theory
at the next election.

 

 

Page Three —

 

Advice to the Lovelorn

Dear Miss Spry:

I am a constant reader of your
column, and believe you will be able
to give me the advice I need.

For three years I have been going steadily with a boy who is very
much in love with me. For a while
I thought I loved him also, but lately I am beginning to realize it was
mere infatuation. I am quite sure
I no longer love him. I know he will
be deeply hurt when I tell him, and
I am willing to do anything to spare
his feelings. However, I have grown
completely out of touch with everything and everybody, and I would be
at a total loss if I broke up with
him,

Miss Spry, the man in question is
an M.A. student, extremely intelligent, studious, and well-liked. He
never has much money, but he
spends most of what he has on me.
Going out with him has been very
enjoyable and rather convenient, but
I should hate to go on lying to him.
Just what would you advise me to
do?

Sincerely,
FAITHFUL.
Dear “Faithful”:

You really have quite a problem
on your hands, my dear, but a little
time and much effort should solve
it. Let me see now, you are in your
senior year stuck with a man you
don’t love, and undecided just which
way to turn. Away from him would
be just about the best direction, I
believe.

You say you are no longer in love
with him. By that I suppose you

VLASTOS—

(Continued from page one)

broadening of outlook and a deepening of understanding that has
been for them a most significant experience. The Maritime-New Engference promises to be just such an
adventure.

The gathering is to be a representative one, but small in numbers.
Dalhousie will be able to send four
or five delegates, who will share
personally in the expense entailed.
Anyone interested in going please
get in touch with Glynn Firth,

 

mean you can’t put up with him any
longer. I understand that perfectly.
A co-ed, I can safely say without
fear of contradiction, can put up
with a man in proportion to the time
and money he is willing to sacrifice
for her sake. Your rather studious
friend would fall down pretty badly
on both, wouldn’t he? Moreover,
there is something about an M.A,
student which terrifies me. They are
so frightfully intelligent. You would
do far better to go around with
someone more on your level.

Do not, however, make the mistake of giving him up yet. He still
has an important role to play in
your life. Keep him around while
you attempt to get back in circulation once again. Try to get a few
blind dates to begin with, ask some
other young man to “Open House”,
(rather convenient, that “Open
House”) and in general, go around
looking as if you are eligible once
again, instead of a woman possessed.

If it doesn’t work, go back to the old
reliable, rather than be left stranded
in your last year. If it does, don’t
worry about hurting his feelings
when you break him the awful
news. It is quite astonishing how
quickly men seem to recover from
broken hearts. You really will be
the one who will be hurt when you
see how little it bothers him. Never
forget that with men women are but
a sideline,—with women, men play a
somewhat more important role, don’t
they ?

Sincerely,
SALLY SPRY.

ADVANCE NOTICE:

Mr. A. L. Miller, Y.M.C.A. secretary from Jerusalem, will visit the
university at the end of November.
He will speak to a general meeting
on Tuesday noon and meet with a
smaller group at an evening discussion. Mr. Miller has had experience
in India and is qualified to discuss
the Arab-Jewish conflict in Palestine. He comes under the auspices
of the 8.C.M. Watch for further
notices.

 

president of the S.C.M., or with

the vice-president, Zilpha Linkletter.

 

 

 

BLIZZARD PROOF

 
  
  
  
    

A--Lining
B--Cork
C--Overcoating

Colwell
Brothers

INSULATED

With Cork

OVERCOATS

The New Idea—

Yes—you can believe your eyes!
These overcoats are actually insulated with genuine cork—an
interlining providing a hidden
shield against biting winds and
zero days! This scientific achievement makes warm clothes warmer

—as comfortable as coon
skins without weight or bulkiness!

Priced

$35.00

Other O’Coats from
$19.50

COLWELL
BROTHERS

Limited
The English O’Coat Shop
453-457 Barrington St.

and
higher

 

 

ar ly

 
  
  
 
 
 
 

   
 

    

ued f ftom page on: )

—

od readily even by a

ea ‘is beebeented. This is done by

. es a Posey of English translation

  

   

 
     
   
   

a 
     

fe
.

_ talkies.

 

' money that Freshman,

é % go before the Students’

to in most films as Sub
4

ey by presenting to them the

ideas, and view points of peoples of

be ai other nations.

_4.. To bring one or two Silent

aA, -_ Pictures which are considered to be

_ masterpieces of the art of Motion
Picture Production; such pictures as

. on “The Birth of a Nation” and the
— “Covered Wagon”.

The society
_ probably will not be able to show

any pictures of this type this be

_ However, the extent of our season’s
work will entirely depend upon the

eae __ student support given in the next

few days.
‘The fee is One Dollar, the number

of pictures is four, the place of

showing is the Dalhousie Gymnasium, and the pictures are all
The first picture probably
‘will be shown Thursday, Nov. 24th,
at 8.15 p.m.

 

. LV... F. PLANS—

(Continued from Page One)
also in every university in Canada,

with the exception of those in the
Maritime Provinces.

Its program includes regular
classes for expositional Bible study

and discussion, frequent meetings |

of who is entirely unacquainted |

D. G. A. C. Lacks Interest | Interest

Since our talk on D. G. A. C. a
couple of weeks ago people have
said that they don’t agree with us
and they think changing the constitution of D.G.A.C. would not help
girls’ sport: the fault lies, they say,
in the fact that there is no real interest in it on the campus. Perhaps
they are right; there are only two
girls sport in which D’s are awarded.
These two are tennis and basketball.
We think that badminton could and
should be added to these two. And
why not intercollegiate swimming
meets? There are many people who
are good swimmers who do not take
a real interest in other sports: many
of these swim all summer and would
like to keep it up during the winter.

As for badminton, more people
play this game than any other. This
gives lots of competition for places
on the team and it certainly would
not be an easy job to win a “D” if
badminton were a major sport. At

for pray, the study and presentation | the present time the team is made

of the yet unevangelized world, conferences and informal gatherings.
Weekly meetings will be held each

_ Tuesday night from 7.45 to 8.45.

The subject to be dealt with Tuesday next, November 22nd, will be
The Bible: A living book, for a living age. Leader: V. Cameron. Open
discussion will follow the address.
All are welcome.

Anyone wishing further information may call at the headquarters,
63 Spring Garden Road (next door
to the Haliburton Inn), or telephone
B-4872. —

Constitution Debated—

(Continued from Page One)

up of faculty and students and
matches are played both in the city
and outside towns. Just because
everyone plays badminton is no reason for the “Powers that Be” to
think it an easy game — they don’t
know how to-play scientific badminton.

 

BOYS TRIM GIRLS

Did you see the minor riot on the
field last Wednesday afternoon? The
girls played ground hockey against
the boys. We don’t know whether
it was real ground hockey or not but
it certainly looked like lots of fun.
The girls had an advantage over the

the more - voluble speakers at the boys by knowing most of the rules

outset. 
In a brief sudlthciac Dr. Bell pointed
A eh that “If you are to work as a
Te dncalty, you will need some unified
organization. If you wish to make

your college life as enjoyable as

possible, all classes should be united.
Do not expect the constitution to be
perfect and don’t try to tear it to
pieces. It can be improved as mistakes become evident”.

The reticence of the audience was
quickly dispelled after the constitution had been read by President
Doug MacKean. Ted Gordon, of the
engineers opened the discussion by
asking what was to be done with the
entering
engineering, paid. This proved to be
the theme of succeeding discussions.
It was explained by the president
that some system, whereby engineering and commerce would get a share
of the dues, has to be evolved. “It
is the funds”, said the President,
“which will unify Arts and Science.”

Opposition to the matter of classes

paying their funds to the Arts and! with the game.

but the boys made up for this by
swift attacks and bold interferences.
They say that if they play the girls
again they are going to borrow
equipment from football players—
who says ground hockey is a sissy
game? The final score of the tussle
was 2-0 in favour of the boys.

 

DEC. 1 BEGINS NEW TERM

The winter term in girls sports
starts the first week in December.
Instead of swinging tennis racquets,
golf clubs, and hockey sticks, the
girls will be learning new dances and
throwing basketballs. We are sure
some people are glad of this for it
must have been pretty cold on the
hockey field these last few days!

 

HANDBALL

“An exhibition game of handball
between the Soph. Enginners and
Frosh Engineers, resulted in a 12-5
win for the Sophomores. They
stacked up a lead in the first half
but the Frosh’s playing improved
It was only the

Science Society was raised by Alexwork of the efficient goalie and the

Hart, who suggested that a Studley
Society should be formed to include
all students not in Law and Medicine.
Unfortunately this point was lost in
a mass of childish argument between
Wallace Wright and Alex Hart—the
latter implying an ulterior motive
to Mr. Wright’s approval of passing
class funds into a common pool.

At this moment Professor Bennet
took the floor, stating that from the
registrar’s point of view there were
no classes. “Classes,” said he, “are

an artificial distinction of your own

invention”.

- George Hagen, also of engineers,
was in favour of the Arts and
Science Society, but objected to giving present class funds into the
society only to have them given back

_ again when they are apportioned to

the classes.

_ Just as the discussion was at its
height, when students showed that
they were ready to discuss representation of the society on the Students’
Council, a motion for approval of the

constitution was called for by the

_ President and two minutes later the
_ Chemistry Theatre was cleared.

The constitution, as accepted, will
Council,

after, it has been discussed at class

B. pectinas, pccomdttie to Douglas

greater experience of the Soph’s that
gave them the game.

Soph. Eng.—

Forwards—James, Mountain Sylvester; halves—Brownhill, Mitchell;
goal—Dowell.

Fosh Eng.—
Forwards—Hennigar, Swansburg,
Horne; halves — Harvey, Moore;

goal—Brown.

Referee—Henneberry.

Several teams of Freshman and
Sophmore have stared a league.
Any other teams representing older
students, societies or institutions
wishing to enter may do so. The
rules—simple. The game—fast. The
time of play—short. The skill—
great. This is a challenge. For information see Mr. Korning. Sophomores wishing to play see either G.
Henneberry or Irving Perlin or
Gordon Hennigar.

 

Interfaculty Football

Several of the fraternities have
arranged to play football against
one another as part of their activities. On the holiday Phi Kappa Pi
scored their first victory before a
very partisan group of spectators,
defeating Phi Delta Theta 8-3. For
their respective teams Fennel and
Hutchins were the outstanding
players.

 

 
 

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

November 18, 1938

 

    

Dal Tigers Smeared by Acadia

Acadia evened the score with Dal-| In the first half neither side scored.

housie last week at Wolfville beating | Acadia made the first score of the)

 
 
  
 
 
    
 
 
 
 
   
 

 

aN Acadia Seconds, 19; Cubs, 6
The Acadia second team had been

the Tigers 10-8, two trys and two) game when Cohen intercepted a pass| practicing regularly along with the
goals as against a penalty goal.|near the Dalhousie goal line and fy<¢¢ team so that they beat the
Both teams had previously been| went over before he was brought! Gybs more decisively than in their

eliminated from the running for the
championships; Acadia had not won
a game all year and were out to |

score their first victory as well as| | Acadia’s other try was made as the game.

 

SOCCER

 

King’s Lose To
Newfoundland Club

 

In a fast and hard fought game
on Thursday the Newfoundland Club
downed King’s by a score of 3—1.
King’s took the lead in the early part
of the game when McRitchie scored
in a penalty. The brilliant save of
Martin, King’s goalie, prevented
Nolan making the score even a few
minutes later; but Nolan soon made
a goal—almost from centre field.
Just before the half time whistle, the
Newfoundland Club took the lead
when French scored in a mixup before King’s goal. In the second

down by several Dalhousie tacklers. | | first meeting. Compared with Acadia | period King’s made a desperate efThe try was converted for goal by | the Cubs were disorganized and were | fort to even the score but their lack
Cameron from in front of the posts. | inferior in every department of the| of practise spoiled their play. Cron

The Acadia backfield, especi- | broke away and after a brilliant run

to avenge their defeat at Dalhousie | | result of a run by the backfield. The | ally Troke the sprinter, were much| scored the final goal for the Newearlier in the season. A large crowd | ball was carried over the line in the | to9 fast for the cubs and made five

of Dalhousians went to Wolfville for} corner but was brought round and ‘tries, two of which were converted |
the game along with the Dalhousie | downed right between the goal posts | ¢oy good.

For Dalhousie, Murray

band and gave the team enthusi-|so that the kick for goal was easily | and Burchell scored tries.

astic support. The Acadia team | made.
were much improved by practice and| was awarded a penalty kick on| quarters: B. Rankine, Whalley, Mac-|

on their play deserved to win.

The Dalhousie scrum outheeled |
Acadia but the backfield failed to
function, whereas the Acadia line,
when they did get the ball, made
beautiful runs for long gains. Acadia
kept the play in Dalhousie territory
for most of the first half but were
held off from scoring chiefly by the
kicking of Vic Haines at fullback.

@ COMMENT ON SPORTS @

 

 

Late in the game Dalhousie

Acadia’s twenty-five yard line, but!
near the touch line. From this difficult angle Phillips made the kick |
good.
Line-up:
quarters: Fiendel, Leith, Hutchins,
Pauker; halves: Burke, Eaton, Ross,
forwards: Storey, Kerr, Phillips,
Ballem, Mitchell,
Kimmie.

 

The football season for the Tigers
this year was a series of ups and

players were of better ability than
usual,

to overcome the Wanderers. The

team was unfortunate in suffering |

so many injuries, especially the loss
of Kent Irwin, their captain and best
player, after the first league game.

Three final games were played,
and the team was well supported by
the student body, so that, even
though Dalhousie did not win the
league, football has had a successful
season. Next year only Irwin and
Storey will be lost from the 1938
team, so Dalhousie can well look for
a championship. ;

 

Deserving of special mention is the
Dalhousie band who added much to
the enjoyment of football afternoons.
The band is rapidly coming back to
what it used to be years ago and is
a credit to Dalhousie.

 

Basketball
At Dalhousie sports are not taken
as seriously as at other colleges so
that there is always difficulty in

and when the team became |
organized they made a great effort |

 

_to come to practice.

i
SS

|

quires much practice; in order to|

have a good team there must be a | by falling on a loose ball over the |

downs, of victories and defeats The | highly developed

|In Charlie Steers we have a coach

system of play.

who can teach that system if the
players are willing to come out and
learn. So far the turnout has been
disappointing to the coach. No one
takes more interest or devotes more
time to coaching at Dalhousie than
he does and it is only fair to him
In two years
he has never once missed a practice
or a game. ‘To clear up the matter
of when practices are held, Manager
Butch Lawson announces that until’
further notice practices will be held
Tuesday—1 to 4 (with dinner).

Thursday—6 to 7.30 (with lunch in

the Store).
Saturday—1 to 2 (with dinner).

 

No one need miss any classes or
lose any time from studying to atend the noon-day practices. If any
one really feels he cannot give the
time to evening. practice, it is all
right with coach, provided that the
noon practices are attended. The
basketball talent in the college is
limited and if Dalhousie is to have a
good team she will need all there is,
but if any players are not willing to

getting the players out to practice! meet these terms they should not
regularly. Basketball especially re-| expect to play at all.

Insist on Getting

Donovan’s Beverages
15 - Different Flavors - 15

W. H. DONOVAN
45 GRANVILLE ST. _—&B-6821

 

 

    

     
 
   

THOMAS WALLACE
SONS and DAUGHTERS
SIGHT SPECIALISTS

Eyes Tested — Glasses Made
“Tf You Want to See Well See Wallace’’

Y.M.C. A. BLDG. HALIFAX

 

Fullback: Haines, three- |

MacDougall, Mac- | faculty

| Line-up: Fullback: Ball; three
| Whidden, Murphy; halves: Burchell,

| | McLeod, Armstrong; forwards: Mac- |
Gregor, Tupper, Sinclair, Anderson, |

| Vail, Murray, Hendry.

| - —

| Law, 3; Arts and Science, 0

Law eliminated Arts and Science |

 

from the running for the Inter-|

them 3-0.
sort of
playing
referee.
handed but had the better
play. Jeff Gillis made the only try |

The game was the usual
interfaculty. game, loose
and loose talking to the

line. In the second half O’Brien |

almost made a penalty goal

post.

championship by beating |

The Law team was short- |
of the |

and
Mullane made a good try for a field |
goal after a scrum on the twenty-|
five yard line, but it was wide of the |

 

foundland Club, making the score
3-1. On Tuesday at twelve o’clock
the Newfoundland Club -meets Arts
and Science in the semi-finals. The

winner will meet Pine Hill for the
Wilson Cup.

 

| A Good Place to Stop |
| for
Sports Supplies

J hi1ney,

456-460 Barrington St. | nc

 

     
   
  
 

 

  
  

fo eat —

ST TTT OTEOOTTA

Smooth, buttery totfee
in a teteeie milk

chocolate /

C. 3712

 

AH! THE SNOW -THE BEAUTIFUL SNOW!

There was a time when a man’s winter coat was called upon
merely to keep out the biting blasts, but that was B.T.T.—Before
Tip Top. Nowadays you can instantly spot a Tip Top overcoat
outlined against a background of lovely white snow. Why? It's
smarter, it has grace, ease, cut—whatever you want to call it.
We call it style! And, can we hand-cut them to your individual
measurements! Well, once you wear a Tip Top overcoat—you'll
really appreciate our so-called severe Canadian winters.

$2495

HAND-CUT AND TAILORED TO YOUR PERSONAL MEASUREMENTS

422 Barrington Street

 

 
