   

  
  
  

_ a fullaf ‘

     
 
 

_*
a

\@

=a

i

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  

 

Pies
Pigs Bet ee 
. se considered serious and he will not; —

__-‘teturn to the Cabinet, according to |

Capital ‘Close-up

By ROSS MUNRO
C.U.P. »Correspondent

 

     

Ottawa, Noy. 1. — A splurge of
‘appointments to the Senate and important government positions and
possibly a change in the Federal
Cabinet lineup before Parliament
meets is anticipated here.

Illness has incapacitated both
Finance Minister Dunning and Postmaster General Elliott, and while
there is a chance Mr. Dunning will
continue in the Cabinet, it is unlikely he will be able to handle the
heavy duties of the Finance department again. Revenue Minister IIsley has been looking after Mr. Dunning’s work since the latter’s collapse in the Commons last June and
appears to be doing a good job,
along with his regular work in his
own department. —

Mr. Ilsley continues to be mentioned as the likely successor to Mr.
Dunning, although there is a conflicting rumor that the Revenue
Minister would like to drop out of
politics and would be willing to accept an appointment to the Nova
Seotia Swpreme Court. The situation naturally depends on the extent of Mr. Dunning’s recovery within the next few months, but.the government
. full-time finance minister by the

 
 

AaATMLe th

  

  
 
   

¢,

Portfolio. Mr. Elliott’s illness is still

several well-informed sources here.
Mr. Mulock is a great friend of the
Prime Minister and has showed considerable ability in his parliamen
_ tary duties.

Other cabinet shake-up rumors
insist that Hon. C. G. Power, Minister of Pensions and National
Health, will accept a Senate appointment, and Dr. James McCann,
Liberal member for Renfrew South,
will succeed him.

Justice Minister Lapointe is reported to be desirous of appointment to the Senate, but the old

(Continued on page 4)

 

probably will want to have

Secretary

 

 

DR. C. B. STEWART

|
of the Medical Research Committee |
of the National Research Council, |
who graduated from Dal last spring. |

 

Crime Menaces Dal

One of the most astounding and
inexplicable crimes of the past few |
years has been recently committed
on the campus. The criminal, evi- |
dently a shrewd, calculating indivi- |
dual has completely evaded all’
authorities. )

With a growing feeling of concern |
we see that the notice posted in the |
Woman’s Common Room of the
Art’s Building has remained unanswered. Since it is a matter!

Ai eich should be .acted on by the

rth York, is the like-| Gur duty to convey to you the sube for the postmaster general ie ee

stance of that notice.

LOST!
_ (was it red?)
One boy friend, on Saturday, Oct.,
1938. Tall, dark, handsome, black
eyes curly hair. Finder please re
turn to owner. Signed,
Phone B-8221 INCONSOLABLE.

Do you realize what this means?
Since this particular criminal has
succeeded, what protection is there
left for any of us? A campaign
against crime, aimed at cleaning up
the campus social activities, should
be started to protect Inconsolable. In
fact it might even be broadened out |
to include any males who find themselves “inconsolable” also. I’m sure
Sally Spry would support us in this.

CAMPUS COMMENT

(By REARDON)

It is surprising that on a campus
the size of ours at Dalhousie there
is so little to comment upon. One
wonders if all the student societies
are dead. But no, that can’t be the
case, as one observes posters advertizing the meetings of various societies to be held in the near future.
Attending the meetings of these
societies, one cannot help but draw
the conclusion that a lot of the lack
of enthusiasm on the campus is due
to the fact that our different leaders
have not the courage of their convictions.

Students’ Council

One very good illustration of this
statement comes from the Council
meeting held Sunday afternoon. The
question arose concerning a Pep
Rally before Saturday’s big game
with Wanderers. After some discussion, a motion was passed to have
the Rally in the Gym on Saturday
at noon. Three members. voted
against the motion on the grounds
that they wouldn’t know what to do
when the Rally was called. Doug
MacKean then refused to act on the
committee, and demanded that the
motion be rescinded. The Council
rescinded the motion and let the

Matter drop. Here is a case where
ten members of the Council voted

- against their own motion, because
_ one councillor demanded it. Can it

e that one Council member is a
ergen ?

  

 

Editor Graham of the Gazette was
called upon earlier to account for a
few articles in last week’s rag.
There were only five registered complaints, but not one of the five complaintants was on hand to give his
views. The proper place to air your
views and complaints concerning the
Gazette is in a letter to the Gazette.
If this fails to bring results, then
go to the Council, but in all cases
stand behind your complaints and
be prepared to offer constructive
criticism.

 

 

e 8) *

Meeting

Another meeting deserving mention in this column was the Arts
and Science meeting, Tuesday noon.
There were about sixty students
present out of a faculty of about
four hundred students, and of these
sixty students not one who was
nominated (and there were many)
would act on a bye-law committee.
The matter of bye-laws, etc., was
passed back to the executive.

The question was then brought up
as to whether the Arts and Science
representatives on the Council should
be nominated by this society as a
unit, instead of by their respective
classes. The only argument brought
forth supporting this suggestion
was that the candidates would be

(Continued on page 4)

'This Mr, Tamaki insisted upon do
In the Law Courts

Lord Chief Justice Meagher, with
Gaudet and MacKay, L.J.J., heard
an appeal from the decision of Mr.
Justice Buncombe in the case of In
re Init, Truro Flying Club v. Init.
In that case the deceased, Thomas
Init, and his friend, John Q. Public,
were the occupants of an airplane
belonging to the Flying Club, which
crashed while Thomas was at the
controls. Evidence showed that the
deceased had been stunting, which
may have caused the accident.

George Tamaki, junior counsel for
the appellant, opened the case, con- |
gratulating the Bench on their recent and well merited appointment. |

 

ing, in spite of what the Gazette
might have to say about it.

Archie Mackenzie, K.C., for the
appellant, claimed there was insuf-|
ficient evidence to prove negligence |
at law, and argued fluently in that
vein. Carl Smith, K.C., for respon- |
dent, appeared to home somewhat
different views on the matter. Lord
Chief Justice Meagher delivered a
lengthy judgment.

During the course of the trial Ed
Cragg was charged with contempt
and fined three polar pies. Unable |
to pay, he appealed, and Lord Chief
Justice McLeod, on hearing the|
counsel for Mr. Cragg, promptly up- |
held the dignity of the Dalhousie
Moot Course by increasing the fine
to five polar pies, which the accused
was directed to pay the following
Thursday. The basis of the charge
was an allegation that Mr. Cragg
threw a stone on the Bench with intent to cause death, injury or discomfort of their Lordships.

Thursday afternoon the Court was
the scene of much merriment as

(Continued on Page Three)

 

 

Council Throws
Sample Dance

 

Saturday afternoon, after the
game with Wanderers, the Students’
Council is holding a dance in the
Upper Gymnasium, to celebrate our
win (we hope) and also to try out
the new Wurlitzer that the Council
is thinking of buying. The dance
will be free to students, but outsiders will be charged a nominal
fee,

Wurlitzers, for those that do not
know, are music machines that feed
on nickels, dimes and quarters. The
Council is thinking of buying one to
replace orchestras for Glee Club
dances, and on other suitable occasions. If students wish to hear
what might well be their lot in the
years to come, they are advised to
come to the Big Gym and dance to
the strains 6f the nickelodian.

ND SS eee

NOTICES
(Also See Page Four)
Newfoundland Club:

There will be a meeting of the
Newfoundland Club in the Science
Building on Sunday at 2.30.

BULLETIN

Murray Rankin, 51 Larch Street, |
Secretary-Treasurer of the Students’
Council, will receive applications |
from those interested in publishing |
the Dalhousie News Bulletin until
10 p.m., Saturday, Nov. 12. Financial arrangements will be discussed
with the Students’ Council. |

(Editor‘s Note: The Dalhousie |
Bulletin is a mimeographed sheet
which appears three times weekly, |
with announcements of coming |
events at Dalhousie. The publishers |
usually make some financial prone,

either through advertisements, or by |

 

Acadia Trip: |

Transportation to Acadia on Nov. |
12, is available in the team bus for |
a dozen students.
Red Payne. First come, first serveq!

_miles of ocean.

 

-_

HALIFAX, N. S., NOVEMBER 4, 1938

Letter From Paris

Canadian University Press Feature.
(Ed. note—This letter was written

by David R,. Fraser, McGill Univer
sity student, who last year won a

scholarship to study in Paris).
Paris, October 10th—

Just a short time ago Europe was
on the verge of what would un-)

questionably have been the most
disastrous war of all time, and a

war in which no one could have been |

victorious. During the crisis it was
interesting to watch the situation

<eTtTe

 

 

unravel itself from hour to hour, and |

reactions
They, of course,

to observe the
citizens of Paris.

of the |

did not look at the crisis in the same |

light as we Canadians did.
To them, war would not have been

in a distant land across some 2,000)

right at hand, and would have immediately imperilled all that they
had ever lived for. Men were not
going to the eastern frontier ready
to die gloriously that their homes
and country might be spared, for

warfare. It presented a
outlook for all!

In this city the bright lights were
a thing of the past. Even the street
lights were shaded by metal covers
so that only a small ray of light
could be seen. Day and night heavy

army transport trucks

ghastly

It would have been |

| their homes and families would also |
'be in the zone ravaged by modern

Chairman

|

 

|
:
|
i

 

DR. F. G. BANTING

of the Medical Research Committee,
who, with Dr, Stewart has just concluded a visit to Dalhousie.

(See page two)

Council Meets

When the Students’
last Sunday afternoon, all members
except Art Ormiston and

| Plummer were present.

lumbered |
along the “boulevards” in a dull)t> be used for the purchase of |

The following business was transacted:

(1) Bud Mackenzie and Don
Storey were appointed a committee
to investigate the field account.

(2) The D.A.A.C: was given $25

undertone. The sidewalk cafes were Soecer balls.

almost deserted,
home

as people were
awaiting news- broadcasts.

|

:
|

was passed.

(3) The. band budget for $195

It included an item of

Trenches were being dug in the. $20 for incidentals, which, it was exparks to be used as air-raid shelters, | plained, included “drinks of various
and sand was distributed around the! sorts.”

city to put out fires in case incen- |

diary bombs were used.

 

Country United.
The Louvre was closed and many

(4) It was decided by motion to
have the band committee take re
sponsibility for cheer leading.

(5) Objection was raised to the
Glee Club properties cluttering up

of its masterpieces were hurried) the stage. The Council passed the

away to some less vulnerable hiding place. Valuable books were
taken in truckloads from the libraries. Women and children
evacuated from the city in
numbers. It was not the
Paris at all!

Just then a grim determination
seemed to permeate all France, as
young and old alike were summoned
under the various mobilization orders.
consequences.

M. Daladier, who had previously
been finding it difficult to consolidate his position of Prime Minister,
suddenly found that the opposition
had rallied behind him. ‘They all
realized that if there was to be a

(Continued on page 4)

Connelley Shield

During the third week of November the Glee Club will present its

large
same

 

first series of one-act plays. These |

plays are entered each year in com- |
petition for the Connolley Shield.
Any recognized society or organization on the campus may produce
any suitable one-act play. All the
scripts and properties are provided
by the Glee Club which will also pay |
the royalties. If any society lacks
a director every effort will be made
to provide it with one.

Last year, unfortunately, the Con- |
nolley Shield efforts brought down |
much ridicule on the Glee Club. This
trouble can be traced back to the
societies themselves. Some promised |
plays and let them fall through;
others selected unsuitable plays and
did not put enough. effort into them. |

Everyone was aware of the)

were |

 

 

This year an effort is being made
to provide better plays. If any
society really wishes to assist in
making the Connolley Shield nights
a great success the Glee Club will
do everything in its power to aid it.
Here is a chance for some society

Cost—$1.00. See|to prove its superiority over the

others.

motion that the Glee Club be instructed to keep the gym stage clear
and not hamper D.A.A.C. activities
(i.e., gymnastics. )

(6) Motion to call for applications for publishing the News Bulletin was passed.

(7) It was decided to make arrangements for improving the servicing of the grounds at rugby
games.

The Council also discussed other
subjects, including the Gazette, a

Council met |

talph |

| running.

 

FREE
DANCE
AFTER
GAME

 

No.

STOP PRESS!

Wanderers Clubhouse
Destroyed

6

GAME TO BE PLAYED?

Early this morning Wanderers’
Clubhouse was gutted by fire. The

‘upper stories are a complete loss,

but the basement, containing the
lockers, was practically undamaged.
Since the football equipment was
not destroyed, it seems likely that
tomorrow’s game will be played, as
scheduled, although no decision had
been made at the time the Gazette
went to press.

With the rest of the sporting public of Halifax, the Dalhousie student
body feels this loss keenly. It is
to be hoped that this loss will not
too seriously interfere with their ac
| tivities, and that assistance will be

forthcoming quickly to enable them
to replace their extensive loss.

This game will have everything,
Dalhousie must win to stay in the
On the strength of Saturday’s performance, we have a
good chance. Never did Dal-Wanderers rivalry flare so high in the
last two years as it has these days.
It’s mounting even higher day by
day. ;

Last week the team played a
careful and painstaking game. If
they do it again tomorrow we stand
an excellent chance to win. But,
win or lose, we know that Dalhousie
will be behind them to a man.

H. L. C. Principal Is
Delta Gamma Speaker

Miss E. Florence Blackwood, principal of the Halifax Ladies College
and a graduate of Dalhousie University, was the speaker at the first
official Delta Gamma meeting of the
season. Taking as her subject
“Women in Life”, Miss Blackwood

(Continued on Page Three)

 

 

pep rally, and the cost of medical
care for athletic injuries. The meeting closed without any definite action
on these subjects.

 

ME AND SALLY

Arts and Science Meeting

O, Sally, why weren’t you at the |
Arts and Science Society meeting |
on Tuesday? You don’t know what |
you missed! All the campus per-|
sonalities were there! You’ve no|
idea how exciting it is to get acquainted with people at Arts and
Science meetings! Take Walter
Lawson, for example—you know the
one I mean—they call him “Butch”.
Now, would you believe it, Sally,
with all these good looks he’s a student! How could I tell? Well, he
refused to go on a committee because of “pressure of studies”. Yes,
Sally, those were his very words:
“pressure of studies’,

And Inez Smith—the exchange
student—couldn’t work because of |
“pressure of correspondence”. What
do you think she meant by that,
Sally? Anyway, nobody believed
her and she with Betty Pearson and
Bernard Graham—the editor no less
have to get speakers during the |
winter. What for do you suppose?
Don’t we get enough lectures?

Well, they didn’t all refuse offices..... Don MacKeigan is to be
manager of basketball—we must go
to the games! And what do you
think, Sally? Helen Rogers was
nominated to be manager! And

 

 

 

there was I—who plaved hasketball

one whole year—sitting right if

front row!, I told the gink next to
me that I knew all about basketball, but it was too late. That Doug
McKeen was telling everybody to
“vote sanely and without bias”, and
I had to get busy to get everybody
voting for the boys.....Oh yes, and
they have a hockey manager. I
couldn’t see him—he sat away at the
back, but his name is Harry Smith

_— probably THE Smith boy — so

we'll have to go to the hockey
games. .... Pain or Cane or something Munro is softball manager.
He’s got great courage, Sally—
kept his pipe in his mouth all the
time after the president had said
there was to be “No smoking!”
But do you know the dreadful
thing about the Arts and Science
Society, Sally ? It hasn’t any
money! No, not a red cent! Can’t
even buy a poster! I got up to say
that I’d sell apples or peanuts, but
everybody was leaving, and there
won’t be another meeting until the
executive presents the by-laws.....
What is the Arts and Socience Society, did you say, Sally? O,
gracious, I don’t know....I couldn’t
hear Doug McKeen with that girl
behind me telling all about the Phi
Kapp masquerade on Monday night.

 

 
  
 
  
 
  
   
 
  
   
    
  
  
 
    
         

Founded 1869. “The Oldest College Paper in America”

i ‘The views expressed in any column of The Gazette are those of the author; it cannot be
ee et assumed that they represent the opinion of the student body.

_ Printed by McCurdy Printing Co., Ltd., Argyle St.
: GAZETTE STAFF

“ae

Editor: BERNARD GRAHAM - - - - =~ B-5033
2 News Editor: WALTER MURPHY ih ah Ala
Sports Editor: DOUGLAS LYALL - - - -  B-2607
: Business Manager: SIDNEY A. GILLIES - -  B-5487

Associates: Barbara Murray, Marjorie MacLean, Jim Milner, Betty
_ Pearson, Lily Hirsh, Bob Swansburg, Henry Reardon, Don Robb, E. Morris.

GOSS YO g—@—e—ooeoao—>_>“~waw—w———
DR. BANTING

On Tuesday Sir F. G. Banting addressed the Medical
Society on “Research”. At the suggestion of a goodly number
_of students, representing both those who heard him and those
-who wish they had, we are replacing the regular editorial
column by a summary of this address—as far as possible in
Dr. Banting’s own words.

Dr. Banting pointed out how the
great advances of medicine in the
last century, which have alleviated
human suffering, increased efficiency
for work, and prolonged the expected length of human life, had been
bs yes due to research workers—men of
courage and insight with unusual
capacity for deep thought and hard
work. He continued:

“The student graduating today
with his knowledge of biochemistry,
physiology, chemistry and physics
has before him a field of opportunity such as never before existed.
He has methods of analysis, and
means of estimating the chemical
activities of body functions which
were unknown twenty years ago.
But do not make the mistake of
thinking that knowledge alone is
power. It is not. Thinking is
power. Some men think too little
and work too much.
~~ “The truth in science can be found
_ --—s only _~by trial or experimentation,

‘but before the trial is made there
“must be a reason for its execution.
This is to be found in an idea.

feel for the youthful enthusiast. . .
This makes research men. It stimulates the individuality and develops
personality.”

Dr. Banting then discussed the
necessary characteristics of a research man and pointed out that he
must have the ability to see and
grasp an opportunity, and the ability to work hard. As Pasteur used
to say to students, “Work perseveringly; work can be made into a
pleasure, and alone is profitable to
man.” It is necessary that the research man have persistence and
patience, and the honesty and unselfishness to co-operate with a
group working on the major problems of medicine,

“All scientific workers are not research men. Research men are born,
not made. The research man is fundamentally inquisitive, not about
‘what everyone knows, but about
things which nobody knows. Those
who have not an investigative mind
will never make research workers.
They may be useful and accurate in
routine work, but they seldom have
|a worth while idea. Research work| ers must have an investigative mind
and natural power of observation.
| The essential qualities to be looked

t after |for are honesty, common sense, balward the searcher with their| anced enthusiasm, self confidence,
| tenacity, system and method in
keeping notes and in planning and
carrying out experiments, and unreserved devotion to the problem in
hand.

“If a man is not honest he may
: deceive himself and be led to draw
They only come to the man who| conclusions from false results which
asks why and tries to answer his/ will not stand repétition by other
own question. They come to the| workers. If a man lacks common
man who thinks about the facts | sense he is liable to be easily sidethat he reads or observes, ‘|tracked, and is led to do foolish
“Like other organs, our thinking | things in the line of Research.
apparatus develops with us, and) “If a man does not possess enatrophies with disuse. Imagination| thusiasm, he very soon becomes lazy
is but a free thinking. The imagina-| and gambles away his time, but if
tive are blessed with a facility in|he is over-enthusiastic, he may beassociation of facts.” come carried away and arrive at
Dr. Banting went on to say that/ conclusions too hastily. If he lacks
in contrast to the science student self-confidence, he can never conwho is merely fulfilling conditions| yince himself or others of the value
_ for a degree the real research work-| of his work. The young worker
er “is the man with an idea. He| must not become discouraged even
has got an idea that has got him.|if the trend of experiment goes
He is willing to make any sacrifice| against theory. If he has not the
in order to carry out the work. He| tenacity to continue he will often
will work if given any kind of an| miss out and, because of incompleteopportunity, and if not given an| ness, his work will fail. The reopportunity he will make it. He is| search man who lacks method and
hot proceeding to a degree, nor| system is like a ship without a ruddoes he work for the sake of pre-| der. The young worker who has not
Senting a paper at a scientific meet-| an unreserved devotion for his work
ing He an honest searcher for truth.|is not likely to succeed. . .
Training in technique, in experi-| “The research man can be assistmental methods, will help a man|ed by training him in observation,
such as this. He has in his tem-|in the careful and accurate recordperament the vital element of re-|ing of his results, and a careful susearch —the inquiring mind. The|pervision of the methods in his
inspiration of his idea carries him| work. He should be encouraged to
along, and overcomes all obstacles. put down his ideas in a note-book
. +» To such a man only comes the| so that he can refer to them and
“joy” of discovery which “is the| think about them before trying ex. geeatest source of inspiration for| periments. The young worker should
_ further work...... be given as much latitude as _pos“The head of a research institu-| sible in his work, but he should feel
_ tion should be like an enzyme which that he can discuss his problem
facilitates a reaction but takes no with the professor at all times. He
_ part in it. He should be a coun-|should not be laughed at and _his
_ #ellor, advisor, constructive critic,|ideas should be treated seriously,
_ and guide rather than be a partici- | however foolish they may be, and
pant in research. He may have as far as possible, he should be
«ome through the experience of made to answer his own questions.
_ having some of his best ideas and, The young research worker will
_ work published by, and attributed | greatly be helped by discussing his
at & ai, to, some eminent authority under problem in perfect confidence with
Whom he has worked and he should some person in whom he has abso
ey

‘tae hal
.

 
 
 
 
  
      

   

   
    

  

oT et presence. They never come to the
-_ eareless nor to those who do not
~ ask why. They never come to the

_. Man who accepts everything he
_ hears without mental reservation.
_ They never come to the man who is
_ satisfied with Science as it is today.

*
es

      
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
   
   
  
  
    
  
   
   
   
    
    
     
   
   
   
   
    
  
  
   
    
   
    
 
   
  
   
  
  
    
    
   
    
   
  
   
   

ey a pe

 

—— ee ee
eee eae prereencegeeeg g en eaE T T

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

LETTER

Editor, Dalhousie Gazette:

Dear Sir,—Having heard vague
rumors to the effect that our honored Gazette had of late disclosed
a partisan tendency and a rather
radical tinge, I immediately decided
to investigate the matter. Student
opinion, or, more accurately, student lack of opinion, proved most
enlightening.

Only four, of the sixty-five with
whom I spoke, were at all capable
of expressing opinions. Yes, they
read the editorials and the articles
on international affairs, and, what’s
more, two went so far as to say
they liked them. The other two had
no time to read the daily newspaper and were extremely grateful
that a reading of the Gazette kept
them in touch with world affairs.
All four agreed that if the Gazette
wanted to be partisan it had every
right to be, and the more radical it
was the better they liked it.

Unfortunately none of the other
sixty-one read the articles on international affairs, and so were unable
to offer any criticism. They expressed rather startling opinions
when asked whether or not they
thought such articles should be included in the Gazette. Some were
so harsh as to remark that if they
were given only half the space at
present devoted to such articles, no
one would feel very badly. Others
were more lenient. They believed
columns on world affairs were perfectly harmless because no one read
them anyway. Some felt that if
words like Chamberlain and Democracy and Communism were scattered throughout the Gazette it sorta
gave it class, don’t you know.

Just what would you like to see
in the Gazette, I asked these people.
But the likes and dislikes of the

 

sixty-five were so varied as to be
almost useless. One wanted a good
scandal column. Someone else wanted college chatter. Another wanted
a weekly collection of gossip. And
then there was the one who wanted
the Gazette to include a nice clean
dirt column. After getting such a
variety of opinions, I simply don’t
know what the Gazette can do to
satisfy them all.

All agreed on one thing. They
never broke their necks in a mad
seramble for the Gazette on Friday
noon. In fact, if it happened to be
delayed until Saturday, a surprisingly small number would be aware
of the fact. Oh sure, they like the
Gazette alright, but, after all, there
are so many other daily newspapers
lying about the house,

I remain,
OBSERVING STUDENT.

 

lute trust. The mere telling about
it often clarifies the idea itself.”

Dr. Banting emphasized the desirability of having an active group
of medical research workers in every medical school. “... the student of a university where research |
is carried on may receive the inspiration which will develop him into a research man

“The question may arise in the
mind of someone, ‘What may I do?’
Do not enter upon research unless
you cannot help it. Ask yourself
the why of every statement that is
made and think out your own answer. If through your thoughtful
work you get a worth while idea it
will get you. The force of the conviction will compel you to forsake
all and seek the relief of your mind
in research work. You can prepare
yourself for work. . . Your training
here is but a preliminary step in
preparation for your life work. . .
If you are a true student you will
be made dissatisfied with yourself
when you graduate than you are
now. It is not within the power of
the properly constructed human
mind to be satisfied. Progress would
cease if this were the case. The
greatest joy in life is to accomplish.
It is the getting, not the having.
It is the giving, not the keeping.

“IT am a firm believer in the theory that you can do or be anything
that you wish in this world, within
reason, if you are prepared to make

the sacrifice, think and work hard |

enough and long enough.”

November 4, 1938

DALHOUSIE DIGEST

MARCO POLO:

Marco Polo, who more than eight
hundred years ago went travelling
in the far East, was the first European to enter China. He told a
strange story of travel that his contemporaries did not believe. But
now reading the book you find that
what Marco Polo says he saw, he
actually did see, and what he tells of
his own knowledge is true.

Among many things, Marco Polo
told about seeing an oil well spouting, but he was not believed. This
is what he narrated:

“On the confines towards Georgiania there is a fountain from which
oil springs in great abundance, insomuch that a hundred shiploads
might be taken from it at one time. |
This oil is not good to use with food, |
but ‘tis good to burn, and is also
used to annoint camels that have the
mange. People come from vast dis- |
tances to fetch it, for in all the
countries round about they have no
other oil.” The very oil region is
now one of the great sources of Russian wealth and independence.

Little did Marco Polo think that
that oil would be good for many
things besides “anointing camels
that have the mange.” He knew
nothing of the power it would give
to automobiles crossing the desert
in which even camels could not live, |
and enable men to fly through the
air over the highest mountains.

Interesting and well described are
the ladies of the ‘Province of
Bashan” ... “The great ladies are
arrayed in stuff, and I will tell you
the style of their dress. They all
wear drawers made of cotton cloth,
and into the making of these some
will put sixty, eighty, or even one
hundred ells of stuff. This they do
to make themselves look large in the
hips, for the men of those parts
think that to be a great beauty in
women.”

Great would be the surprise of the
the styles of today. The Venetian
men of Bashan and Marco Polo at
ladies and gentlemen of that time
admired wide hips, and bodies of like
proportions to match the hips.

Read “Marco Polo’s Travels” when
you can. It is one of the books that
everyone is “supposed” to read but
which few actually do. You’ll enjoy it.
SLANG:

All young men who are to be our
lawyers and have not yet acquired
legal slang may like to learn a few
standard expressions:

A “Crim-Con” is an action by a
husband for damages for the seduction of his wife .. . “Lightweight”
is a judge who knows no law...
“To ring the bell” is to get verdict
for the full amount sued for...
“On the nose” is a case exactly in
point ... “Smear” is a case having
no merits ... and as we all know,
a “Shyster” is the other fellow’s
lawyer.
PLUTARCH:

The learned Theodorus Gaza, a
great restorer of Greek was asked
which one he would choose if he had
the choice of preserving one author, |
if “learning must suffer a general
shipwreck.” By preserving Plutarch
he would preserve our knowledge of
many great authors and other great
men.

The “Lives”, which did so much to
inspire ambition in Abraham Lincoln,
includes the short life of Themistocles, whose mother was one of the
Thracians, referred to by the proud
Greeks as “barbarians”. She was
proud of the achievements of her son
and had inscribed on her tombstone
these words:

“T am not of the noble Grecian race,

I’m poor Abrotonon, and born in

Thrace;

Let the Greek women scorn me, if

they please,

I was the mother of Themistocles.”

Themistocles saved the Greeks
from the Persians by persuading
them to trust themselves “To their
wooden walls”, meaning their ships.
And when he needed money to carry
on the war he discovered that the
wealthy Athenians were hoarding
their wealth. He announced that
“the shield with the head of Medusa,
the frightful person with snakes instead of hair, was missing, and on
pretext of searching for it ransacked
all places and found considerable
sums of money concealed, which he
applied to the public use.”

“So many candles are embarrassing.”’
“You wouldn't mind if they were Sweet Caps.’

,

SWEET CAPORAL CIGARETTES

“The purest form in which tobacco can be smoked.”

 

Christmas ?

Yes it is time for Christmas Cards, particularly
Fraternities, which group
members’ orders, to obtain
the quantity price.

It’s a Pleasure

You’ll find this a pleasant place to dine, lunch
or quench your thirst,

and the prices are reasonable.

 

It is one of Birks many
services.

The

Green Lantern
407-409 Barrington St.

HENRY BIRKS AND
SONS LIMITED

Diamond Merchants
Halifax, N. S.

 

 

THOMAS WALLACE
SONS and DAUGHTERS
SIGHT SPECIALISTS

Eyes Tested — Glasses Made
“Tf You Want to See Well See Wallace’’

Y.M.C. A. BLDG. HALIFAX

      
          
 
 

Alastair MacKinnon, R. O.
Modern Glasses
Studies are easier when your eyes
see right and feel right.
Eyes Examined.
426 Barrington Street

       
        

   

 

   
    
      
     
    

Your Future Is

IMPORTANT

There is room in the insurance profession for intelligent, well-educated men, to sell “Security” to
Canadians for their families and themselves. If
considering such humanitarian work as a career

you would do well to choose The Mutual Life of
Canada.

 

Our nearest Branch Manager or the Head Office |
will be glad to give you particulars regarding the

Company, its history and policies.
LUTU. CANADA LIFE |
Waterloo, Ont. |

Home Office E'stablished 1869
Insurance in Force Over $540,000,000

  

 

 

gs

 

 

 

 

 

EATON'S

Features A Wide Range
YOUNG MEN’S

 

‘ arc!
45.00

you find just what you want among EATON’S
‘ wide selections of new winter overcoats! Featured
In a variety of styles, patterns, colours and fabrics. Of
all wool materials, smartly tailored, well lined and
beautifully finished. Get ready now for the cold weather

ahead — choose your winter coat at EATON’S. Size
range 35 to 44.

EATON’S—Main Floor.

&T.

 

EATON CO

MARITIMES LIMITED

 
  
   
  
 
   
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
   
  
  
     
   
  
    
 
   
 

y yes lay. ” “Bat yesterday
was Sund ay” I explained carefully,
} - ‘to heaven that it was. “Oh,
] the Sabbath on Saturday”
ie reply. —
elt quite bitter about Seventh
Adventists for quite a while
| mee You have no idea how
ient a week is when you begin
th Pe day instead of Saturday.
2 x a Seventh Day Adventist,
‘t . is just one of Sunshine’s
talents.

© She keeps the kitchen clock half
hour fast so that she can fool herf and get us up at five each morn; y ng instead of half-past. I’ve never
fea been able to find out what she does,
a é ee being an ordinary human
gs righ having no nine o’clock

as a new Neridcasor because she tied
"the em on with string after that, and
each: time she put a plate on the
table the glasses took a swan dive

‘ Be ance her nose, You can imagine
et the suspense of waiting for them to
fall in the soup or the corned beef
- hash. She has re-established calm
(om _-once more though, because, on her
_ way to church last Saturday night
_ she went into the Five and Ten and

a bought herself a new pair.
i ie ef We call her Snushine because not

crt only does her disposition deserve it,
| but also she’s a rarity in Halifax.

_ Pine! Hill Billets

h a

    
   
   
   
  

 

At
= ae. 4
aee rs :

3 a

= eh i

dé.

 Hillers | now feel the influence
Bretoners and NewfoundAt least +

atives s of the ancient colony;

 
 
   
  
   
 
    
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
    
   
 
  
  
    
  
   
  
    
   
 
    
   
    
 
    
     
     
    

se “furtiners”. The appointment
P i oe a Cape Bretoner as principal of
- the Hall will, it is feared, add to an
oF ee dient superiority complex
of those fortunate enough to have
- sprung from the “fair isle.”

f *

* *

a Reed:
'  —Ss Last year Wallie strummed and

-_-yodeled; but this year we no longer
have the singing cowboy. Instead,
Sellars leads a motley army of pro_ digies of the wood-wind, namely the
clarinet blowers. During any “quiethour” you may hear the vibrating

: 4 reeds and hollow tones of the “gobsticks” in the hands and mouths of
_ these pale carbons of Benny Goodman, and they have become about
as welcome as a coffin at a wooden
_ wedding.

$- et

be _ Things we can do without:

(a) Freshmen
 (b) Condon’s. “Now, at Mt. A.
he Week. 7
“et (3) Allan Barrett’s ‘“Eddy-fying”
‘ baritone.
_(d) Sinelair’s guffaw.
(e) “Seedy” Matheson’s “by
Jove”.
(f)

Tapioca pudding and beets.

a Emergency Exit

a

 

We wonder why one of the front
* windows of the Art’s Building was
es sia open last Saturday afterre noon ? 7 22 Could it be possible that
one of the Freshettes found herself
Paiva in and after a cautious look
_ to make sure no one was coming
_ jumped through the window, as she
is thought, unobserved ?
_ Neyer mind, Ruth, it was quite a
Loft jump but we trust you won’t use it
S a means of exit in future as you
: “are a “big girl” now—or maybe you
were only following the example of
1e Students’ Council; but then, they
‘use the back windows.

m

  
  

sway Le 7 ;
rcent were, ‘to “tlio  ancinn of

remaining one percent were| routine of Oct. 31.

Personally

By Suzy

Suzy—the cynic.

I dropped down to the store the
other morning and dangled my legs
over the end of a stool. (Bye the
bye, have you ever noticed how people struggle with their feet when
they sit on those stools. Unless you
have legs as long as goal-posts you
lose all your poise struggling to
keep your balance).

The usual gang was there, Classskippers, the Chocolate-milk set, the
What’s-wrong-with-Dalhousie group,
and one or two students who had
come to buy books.

_ The Class-skippers were holding
forth on the advantages and disadvantages of Bennie. One said hopefully that someone had told him that
you. can only get what he’s driving
at by a process of osmosis. He added that like all natural phenomena
it was a little difficult to understand.

The Chocolate-milk set were frantically discussing the disadvantages
of Arranging a Murder and the
What’s-wrong-with-Dalhousie group
had turned their attention to the
weighty problem (for them) of this |
year’s Gazette. Above the hub-bub
could be heard the weak voices of
the Book-buyers. Such phrases as
these were gently wafted to my
ears. “Hey Harry, where’s that
(censored) Plant Biology”, or ‘Oh
Roy, why the (censored) don’t you
keep more Latin Grammars”.

As I leaned over the counter and
screamed over the turmoil for a Coc
I meditated to myself on what a
democratic college we are ,and how
much we have to say about everything and anything. “Yea verily,”
I continued “What a wonderful thing
Youth is, just like our dear little
hot-water heater — always leaking
steam.”

OUR HATTIE

By PATTER

 

 

 

“Hallowe’en comes but once a year,
All ghosts, and pumpkins, spooks
- and beer,

i Ringing door-bells, devil’s queer,
Broomsticks, cats and witches leer

And jelly-beans galore, my dear!”

Sings Hattie.

Our Hattie, in hee accustomed
frenzy, went through her annual
She sent her
usual greetings to all her pals and
asked them to a party. They rolled
up to the door to be welcomed by
the proverbial spirit of evil (Hattie
in pop’s dressing-gown). They
shrieked stupidly and generally entered into the swing of the moment.
They hopped for the odd pumpkin
and hunted for eggs, all under Hattie’s supervision.

Hattie, looking quite the femme
fatale at the Law Ball, more than
bowled us over when she appeared
with the “Answer to the Madien’s
Prayer” who consulted Miss Spry
last week. The goop, evidently, was
acting on the advice of S.S.,—Smoked like an incinerator, got thoroughly
boiled, ete. We were not amused,
but Hattie was. She says we all
have to grow up some time.

Hattie missed the ’bus and did
not come to the rehearsal for the
Freshman show on Sunday. She
thus was deprived of her role (fairy,
you know) and was delegated to
perking coffee for the Glee Club
members,

 

DELTA GAMMA—

(Continued from Page 1)

based her address on her visit to
Krakow, Poland, where women university graduates from all over the
world gathered for a convention in
1937.

After the address Zilpha Linkletter, President of Delta Gamma,
conducted the business meeting.
Elected to the Delta Gamma executive were Marjorie Wood, ’39; Marjorie McIntosh, ’38; Ruth MacQuarrie, 41; June Parks, ’42. Maureen
Allen, Debating Chairman, announced that trials for the Intercollegiate
Debating team, will be held at the
next Delta Gamma meeting. The
annual dance sponsored by the girls
society in aid of the Comunity Chest
is to be an informal at Shirreff Hall;
the date will be announced by the
executive, which is making the

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

WHAT GOES ON?

By coy

 

Time marches on and so does
Hitler ... By the way the major
part of that £10,000,000 British loan
to Czechoslovakia is to be used for

the building of a strategic road from |

Pilsen in Bohemia, to Ruthenia at
the tail to the state.

provide easier transportation for
German troops, etc., on their way
to the Black Sea and Rumanian oil
Meanwhile Dr. Funk, Reich Economie Ambassador, is touring the
capitals of south-eastern Europe,

drawing into the German orbit these |

little states who as yet have not
shown that they can govern themselves. Turkey has been granted a

:

Obiter

By MILNER

(Author’s Note: If this column rep
resents student body opinion generally, T’ll take vanilla.)

A friend of mine who reads this
stuff (which alone proves him to be
a friend) asked me why, since I

_have knocked every other organiza
It will unite | tion on the campus, I never critiwhat remains of Czechoslovakia, and | cized the Gazette.

You can easily
see the delicate position in which I
find myself. It is rather like bit
-|ing the hand that feeds you, or

looking a figt horse in the mouth,
or something. I dare say, if I had
sufficient courage, I could find considerable fault with the Gazette.
Even with our esteemed editor. But
do I? Would you? Well, I won’t

press for an answer, because ob
large loan to balance recent British | viously you would.

investments. Mustapha Kemel, the
rejuvenator of Turkey, probably will

 

One friend (7?) tells me he finds
the Gazette dull, another went so

be on the side of the strongest bat-| far as to say that he wouldn’t stoop

talions, or may remain neutral if! to criticize it.

Tsk-tsk. It is too

Italy does not enter the next con-| bad some fellow had to get in so

flict.

early with the one about not hav
The war of 1914 was definitely not | ing to be a hen to tell a rotten egg,

in the plans of German industrialists. Germany was reaching her
|place in the sun without it.

|

At-| why didn’t he take the

because I could have come right
back with a cutting remark about
thing

tempts were made by British and) over himself. Ah well, I guess we
German manufacturers to stop the| will have to console ourselves with

impending conflict. Today the same |
group oppose war,
know it would bring their system
crashing into ruins. But if the German industrialists cannot gain their
objectives by peace they may be
forced into war. Already they have
been checkmated in South America
by the United States and a change
in Latin American feeling toward

trade with Germany.—Rearmament |

in Britain and Germany should continue as long as British capital pays
or it. England and the Reich remind one of Athens and Sparta; but
which is Athens? I wonder if there
will be another Phillip of Macedon.

 

Canadian nickel and American
munitions still flow to Germany and
Japan. Nickel mined in Ontario and
transported perhaps by the Canadian
National Railway, becomes a Japanese bullet.

 

General Syrovy’s complete capitulation to Hitler was sudden. That old
war-dog, veteran of the Czech march
across Siberia, has been forced into
it by circumstances. There are
groups in the Czechoslovakian state
who will be glad to see the suppression of Jews, of Freemasonry, and
the Left. Anti-semetism especially
will provide something upon which
to vent their anger. Under a Rightist Government, labor laws can be
discarded in a short-sighted attempt
to give greater profits to industrialists. These are some of the reasons why the capitulation was so

complete. There are probably many
others.

 

Government of Poland by the
army and re-actionary intellectuals
will continue for how long? Seventyfive percent of the population (the
peasants) have no voice. Witos,
leader of the Peasant Party has been
in exile for many years. The problem is complicated by these other
facts. Half of Polish territory is
occupied by White Russians and
Ukrainains, totalling a little over
4,800,000. Naturally they do not
want to return to Russia, after the
treatment which the Ukraine received at the hands of Moscow. The
Polish Corridor, formerly German in
population, is now mostly Polish.
The army of Poland is poorly pre-pared and industry is not ready for
war. These and other factors resulted in a dictatorship attempting
to straddle the fence between Russia and Germany. It is quite possible that the policies of the present
government will lead to another
series of Polish partitions. Close
friendship with Germany is definitely a mistake. The Poles will have
to work harder for their independence or they will lose it.

 

What goes on in the minds of
Europeans beneath the smoke screen
created by governments and interests? The Magyar peasant, who has
just rejoined his homeland soon perhaps to come under foreign rule
again; a man in the toyshops of
Nuremburg drafted to make toys of
war; that peasant woman of France,
mother of a son likely to die in the

|

because they | perhaps.

 

 

“names sei laa eeentaaastc tea ieee
LS
on

the thought that it could be worse,
I’m sorry I haven’t the
courage necessary. But some constructive criticism would come in
handy.

* *

“It’s NOT FOR KNOWLEDGE”

It is rumored about the campus
that a professor ejected some twenty members from his class because
they hadn’t read an assigned poem.
Obviously they must have been
freshmen. Does the estimable and
honourable professor imagine that
we come to college to work? Can it
be that he is trying to force people
to work? (High school stuff, bad).

After all, if the university authorities expect the student to work,
they might give notice in some
form or other. Actual notice, I
mean. This sudden explosion is
most disturbing. Revolutionary ideas
of course must be tolerated, even in
the faculty members, if we are to
expect the same toleration in return, but this is more than mere
silence, this is action.

It is too bad they repealed section 98. I never quite understood
why it was passed in the first place,
but it does provide a check on this
sort of thing. Expecting students
to work is communistic, isn’t it?
Like most people who use the word,
(including the legislators of section
98 of the Criminal Code), I have
only the vaguest notion of what the
word implies. Certainly it is difficult to understand what the section
in question meant. But still, the
outlook is alarming, so near Christmas, too,

Of course it is just rumor, and
what I have written is idle speculation, and be it understood that all
the characters in this article are
entirely fictitious, and any resemblance to any person, however, remote, living or dead, is quite unintentional. (This, incidentally, resembles the well known “No Trespassing” sign, which, as everyone
knows, is a wooden falsehood. As
I remember, intention has but little

to do with the law of libel and
slander. )

*

* * *

THE VOICE OF EXPERIENCE

While I think of it, the President
described certain periodicals as trash
a short while ago. It is possible
that he included the Gazette in the
list, either as a full fledged member,
or as one of the notable exceptions.
If the former is the case, then he
is not alone in his glory, is he?

J. B. MILNER.

A Geometry Problem

Given: I love you.

To prove: That you love me,

Proof:

I love you.

Therefore I am a lover.

All the world loves a lover.

You are all the world to me.

Therefore you love me.
’—McGill Daily.

a PS

next conflict; the unemployed ironworker of northern England, beside
a heap of slag, like himself the
refuse of modern industrialism. If
they had a voice, what would they
say? ... 1 wonder.

LS i
SL
se

— a ee Oe Ee Soa GUN
¥

i OOO A AGO AP rr OI EO act

Page Three

   

  

Dear Miss Spry:

The residence at which I stay is
about to hold their big formal, a
really exclusive, ultra-ultra affair.
Being a freshette, I am uncertain
about how to make the most of the
opportunity.

My boy friend is extremely devoted and takes me _ everywhere
within his means. I realize that this
is an excellent opportunity to repay
him for all that he has done for me,
but, Miss Spry, I do wonder if I
could get away with asking someone
else.

There are two others I would
simply love to ask. One, at present
a student at Mount Allison University, is a boy with whom I have
gone for years. Why, you could almost say we grew up together! I
know he would adore coming down
for the dance, even if it would mean
cutting a few classes.

The other—who is just about the
slickest thing you ever laid eyes on
—is right here in our little college
by .the sea, I sit next to him in
several classes (easily arranged by
the simple device of misspelling my
name), and every time he looks at
me I go all queer and breathless inside and start getting poetic, like:
“Goes there the girl with soul so

dead
Who never to herself hath said
’My honour for a man like that!!’”
He has never dated me, but I am
sure it’s because he thinks I have a
steady and am uninterested in other
men—although heavens knows I
tried hard enough to make him think
otherwise.

Miss Spry, which of the three do
you think I should ask? Much as I
should like to take my Mount A.
friend or that six-foot-four of
gorgeous manhood, I simply cannot |
afford to get in Dutch with the old
standby.

Hoping you can help me,
I remain,
Yours truly,
“Between Three Men.”

LAW COURTS—

(Continued from page 1)
Lord Chief Justice Ash (C. Sc.)
heard Jack MacDonald, K.C., and
Harvey A. (Tiger) Veniot, N. C.,
argue an appeal from a negligence
case decided last year in the Ontario
Appeal Court, one for which the
Lord Chief Justice (Ash, B.Sc.) has
a well known dislike. The Court
opened the case before an almost
empty room, but ten minutes later
a large audience of about thirty
filed into the room, singly, after
carefully banging the door, much to
the annoyance of His Lordship, but
to the amusement of the thirty
spectators.

During the interval before Mr.
(Tiger) Veniot, K.C., opened his
case, Mr. Gordon K. Daley was
given a hearing in the matter of a
petition sought by certain members
of the third class for an injunction
restraining Mr. Daley from cutting,
shedding, or otherwise diminishing
the hirsute adornment of his cranium. Mr. Daley was unable to show
cause why the restraining order
should not be granted, so it was.

Mr. Daley in the course of his argument said the day would come,
and was not far distant, when every
one would be shaving his cranium.

 

Advice to the Lovelorn

|

 

ss Sh

Dear “Between Three Men”:

In the days when I went to college it was practically an unheard
of thing to waste such an excellent
After all,
if you have a man where you want

invitation on one’s steady.

him, asking him to your residence
dance will get you nowheres fast.
I can see no point whatsoever to

your asking a man from Mount

Allison to your dance. Practically

speaking, just where would it get
you? A man several hundreds of
miles away is absolutely useless to
you no matter how much he thinks
he loves you. Do remember that, as
far as men are concerned, a bird in
the hand is worth two in the bush.

If, however, you are desirous of
impressing the man from Mount Allison, nothing is simpler. Send him
an invitation so that it arrives on
the day of your dance and date it
three days earlier. Or write and tell
him how sorry you are that he is so
far away, and will be unable to attend your dance — anything to let
him know you are thinking of him.

As for that nice devoted steady of
yours, we can make short work of
him. Have a convenient little quar
rel immediately, and invite that
handsome heart-breaker you raved
about; then, of course, kiss and

make up with the old reliable—after
the dance.

I believe, in this way you will
make the most of the excellent possibilities offered you by your dance.
For you girls opportunity knocks but
once a year. It is downright wasteful to let the occasion pass by without making at least one new
conquest.

Sincerely,

Sally Spry.

 

Editor’s Note: Sally Spry is here to
solve your problems. Send them to
Sally Spry c/o the Gazette office.

 

Their Lordships were not much influenced by this argument.
Following this important interruption, their Lordships continued
with the hearing of Mr. H. A.
(Tiger) Veniot, K.C., but counsel
had no sooner started when the
court room was vacated as if by
some prearranged plan, which of
course is impossible to even contemplate. Later the public drifted back,
this time in a long line, resembling
a funeral procession. After this Mr.
Veniot was given a quiet hearing,
although a notice bearing the words,
“IT am from the west and when I
speak, let no dogs bark,” was ees
on his back,

It would appear that Lord Chief
Justice Ash, B.Se., was unable to
keep order in the court. In the
melee two of the five polar pies,
paid by Mr. Cragg to the court,
were removed from the Bench and
have not been heard of since. The
other three were eaten by their
Lordships in the course of the hearing. The Lord Chief Justice was
ably assisted in the case by Lord
Justices Swetnam and Petrie. The
real show was between the Lord
Chief Justice and counsel for respondent: “Tiger” A. C. emerged

victor from the legal barrage.

 

Overcoats

Be sure to look over our large assortment of

winter coats before buying elsewhere.

We

have a lovely range of the new fleece coats
in single breasted style in smart shades of
oxford, heather
Priced from $19.50,

blue, brown and _ green.

SHANE’S MEN’S SHOP

30 SPRING GARDEN ROAD

 

DISCOUNT OF 10% TO DAL STUDENTS

 

 
  

 
 

 

 

 

- warrior of the Liberal party play:

such an important role in the Com
~ ‘mons as Mr. Mackenzie King’s right

| ~~ ‘hand man that most political ex, -_-perts here do not believe he coulc

“will be filled shortly, along with the
‘numerous diplomatic vacancies. New

a ee

 

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

   

‘apital Closeup-(Continued from Page One)

“

be spared from the House.
‘Six Senate seats are open and

ministers are to be appointed to the
Canadian legations at Tokyo and
Paris, and the new legation at Brussels will need a minister.

Little excitement is being caused
here by the four by-elections sched
 

Girls’ Sport

 

November 4, 1938

 

 

Dalhousie Defeats ;\ Wanderers ;

 

 

to Eaton for the second try of the
game. Just before the half ended

Dal, 11; Wanderers, 9

 

 

LETTER FROM PARIS—

(Continued from Page One)

Men Turn Out

For Swimming !

The swimming team of Dalhousie
has never been able to boast any
phenomenal performances, but that
is no reason why this season should
not be the exception. We have se
cured the use of the Y.M.C.A. pool

for two periods every week, Tuesday
8.45-10.00 p.m., and Friday, 8-9 p.m.
Tuesday evenings will be reserved
for the use of the team and Friday
there will be a general swim for any
wishing to come.

 

uled for Nov. 14 in London, Waterloo South, Montreal-Cartier, and
Brandon. Conservative Leader Manion will be returned in London, as

D. G. A. C.
The D.G.A.C., under the leader
The Dalhousie Tigers played their
best football of the year to defeat
the Wanderers on their own grounds,
11 to 9—a goal and three ties

the Wanderers scored a try to halve| war with Germany it was no time

 

| It is the desire of the committee
_to arrange at least one meet before
| Christmas that will be so placed as

Dalhousie’s lead.
Refreshed by the rest at half time
the Tigers continued to carry the

to squabble among themselves.

 

Population Hilarious.

the Liberals decided not to oppose
him after the Prime Minister made
a specific request in this regard.
The Montreal seat will return a
Liberal, as it has ever since the riding was formed in 1925. Waterloo
South and Brandon have been predominantly Conservative, and there
is strong possibility they will continue to be represented by Conservative members in the Commons.
With the Canada-United States

 

ship of Joan Anderson, is off to a
busy start. This organization, which
is for girls what the D.A.A.C. is for
boys, has always been important,
but since girls’ sport at Dal is definitely on the up and up, the club
is getting even more important.
One thing which is, perhaps, hindering it is the fact that it is under
the control of Delta Gamma, and is
not officially recognized in the Students’ Council. Since D.G.A.C. has

against three ties for the Wanderers. The shifting of Fiendel to outside three-quarters proved a wise
move. This is unquestionably his
proper position, as he proved by his
play last week. This move, with
Pauker on the other wing, gave Dalhousie a more balanced line, both
offensively and defensively.

The Wanderers’ attack was halted
by the following up and tackling
of the Dalhousie team. The Tigers

play to the Wanderers and made
their last seore of the game. Syd
Pauker, running close to the ground
and at full speed, twice shook off
high tackles and carried the ball |
for thirty years to the five-yard |
line, where he again passed to
Eaton, who fought his way over the
goal line. The two points for goal)
after the try were made sure by!
Bus Phillips and later proved to be |

 

Pro - English feeling became
stronger, and for a time all eyes
were focused on Downing Street.
It is astounding how fraternally the
French people looked to the initiative of the British Prime Minister.
They knew that his diplomatic
struggle was theirs and that the
destinies of both countries would
be painted with the same brush.

Chamberlain was the man of the
hour!

not to come too near exams. A
large turnout is essential, however,
and we especially encourage any
| who have previously taken part in
competitive swimming and diving.
|Possibly there are some who would
like elementary instruction on learn| ing to swim? Friday evenings there
| will be an instructor present who will
| gladly oblige in this respect.

To be admitted to the pool it will
be necessary to obtain tickets from

_ quiry in any way is quite cautious
- not to pre-judge the case, but the
impression grows that it might have
- far-reaching repercussions in the

control of all girls’ sports, for it to
receive its grant from the Council,
it must be directly responsible to
that body. This, we think, would
give it more strength and better
control of increasing activities.

Last year the D.G. A.C. decided
that if the basketball manager played on the team there should be an
assistant manager who did not. In
this way the assistant manager
would be able to keep score, etc., at
the intercollegiate games. Also, the
assistant manager of one year automatically becomes manager the
next. At the meeting on Tuesday
Florence Armstrong, present manager, nominated Marjorie MacIntosh
as her helper and the meeting approved her choice.

Another thing discussed at the
meeting was the new basketball uniforms. And here we got something
original. It was proposed that they
should be, of all things, rompers!
We were rather flabbergasted at
this suggestion, but those, who profess to know, said they were excellent. It seems that the darn things
are not very comfortable but very
flattering to one’s figure. There also
was the grand argument that the
rompers are inexpensive. That, of
course, appealed to the D.G.A.C.
So, be prepared when you go to see
the first league game!

* * *
BASKETBALL
Gone are the good old days when
basketball was a matter of fun and
frolic. Now any casual observer can

 

treaty unsigned, there is no particularly new issue for the by-elections and dull campaigns likely will
result.

Ottawa remains in the political
doldrums, but down in a stuffy,
little courtroom of the Transport
Commissioners in the Union Station
here, the Bren gun inquiry is making news every day of the week.
The probe will wind up within a
month, and Mr. Justice H. H. Davis
of the Supreme Court of Canada,
the one-man royal commissioner,
will hand his report to the government,

So far, in the opinion of most
writers covering the probe, Colonel
George Drew’s attack of the Bren
gun contract between the national
defence department and the John
Inglis Company of Toronto for
7,000 Bren guns was generally justified, although several of his specific charges cannot be proved.

Everyone connected with the in
 

national defence department personnel. Col. Drew’s prestige seems to
have gone up several points and the
success he has attained at the investigation will probably assist him in
becoming the new Ontario Conservative leader, succeeding Hon. Earl
Rowe.

With some of Canada’s most important legal talent assisting with
the case, the amount of bickering

were on their men as soon as they
received the ball and took them
completely out of the play in contrast to their ineffectual efforts at
tackling in other games.

Bauld and Black on the Wanderers’ wings were never able to break
through, but were brought down by
Fiendel and Pauker or by Haines at
full-back. From a scrum near midfield Dalhousie scored her first try.
The ball went along the line to
Fiendel, who ran around the opposing players to score in the corner.
In rounding the Wanderers’ line
Fiendel must have run forty yards
to carry the ball thirty yards to the
goal line.

A few minutes later Pauker drove
through the Wanderers and passed

@ COMMENT

FOOTBALL

Dalhousie’s victory over Wanderers last week has changed the aspect of the football situation. The
Tigers, after being soundly beaten
twice, were not thought to have a
chance of beating Wanderers, but
they outplayed Wanderers for a
lead, and then held on until the end
of the game. Their position now is
this, that they have to win their

 

two remaining scheduled games to| Just how this result has been arriv
tie with the Wanderers. One game
is with Wanderers at Studley this
Saturday and the other at Acadia |
next week.

the winning margin. | When pictures of him ap
After this the Dalhousie team be- | Peared in news reels, we could algan to tire rapidly and were thrown most describe as sentimental the
on the defensive by the Wanderers’ | W@Y the theatre audiences in Paris |
attack.’ They played with care and | cheered, clapped, and shrieked their
determination and managed to pre-|#PProval. That seemed to be the
vent the Wanderers from overcom- | 9" bright thing in a French metro- | INTERFACULTY RESULTS
ing their lead, though two more polis that had so recently lost its
| tries were scored against the Tigers. | $!amour and gaiety. aa me

In this stand full-back Vic Haines| AS days wore on, the tension in-| Sine Same Genes er pe tal
was brilliant. He has not had the |,creased , until the news of the Bex pneu bane Ree a oe oy
protection he ought to have had all Munich Four-Power Agreement hit pe re ee pone seers gi
year, but Saturday he showed his| Paris like a bombshell! People ce ‘ re ground of the two tries
lability as a sure catcher, tackler, | Crowded the streets laughing and | “ey scored,
and long kicker. 'shouting hilariously. Bright lights)

| Professor Korning. These are furn
ished free of charge. Here is a
service that is for your own benefit,
come and take advantage of it.

 

Medicine 6; Arts & Science 0

 

' s : : : y Ley > > 2. " a
v : 'were again seen on the “boule-| “tts & Science 3; Freshmen 0
Line-up: Full back, Haines; three- lay x Ie
quarters, Fiendel, Leith Hutchins vards. The whole atmosphere of Arts and Science were outnumj arters > 5 ’ S
a , a ’| “gay Paree” seemed gayer than ever,| bered by the Freshmen, but beat
| Pauker; halves, Armstrong, Eaton, 7

: . ;
| Ross; forwards, Kerr, Storey, Phil
| lips, Matchell, Ballem, MacKimmie,
| Macdougall.

ON SPORTS

football game. The Tigers will go
‘into Saturday’s game knowing that
they have beaten the Wanderers,
and if they play: the same, way they
can do it again.

after three weeks of nerve-wracking | them by a single try, scored by
tension. |'Harry Grant.

FOR V

 

 

ee

 

  

ea ee Sel. Woke! Pe

     

INTERFACULTY FOOTBALL

A playoff game between Medicine
and Law for the Interfaculty Football championship has been announced for 12 noon on Saturday.

ed at is not quite clear as the games
played so far would give this standing which seems somewhat incomplete.

and personal animosity shown in the
court is a rather amazing feature
of the probe. It annoys Justice
Davis considerably and he persistently raps counsel for wasting time
and bringing up non-essential matters.

see that it means good hard work
and strenuous practices. On Tuesday night and Saturday noon you
can see our squad training under
the excellent direction of Phil. Wray
and Florence Armstrong. Practically all last year’s team have turned

 

 
    
  

 

out, and also Inez Smith, who played on the Queen’s team (boys’
rules!) Since they have started

practices early, we have high hopes
better known about the campus gen-| 4¢ them bringing the title to Dal

erally, if nominated by the Arts and} 4,;, year.
Science Society. One danger in this #
system lies in the fact that upperclassmen may be nominated each
year, thus doing away with the
present system of allowing new students to gain their experience on
the Council gradually.

The Arts and Science Society
should first draw up their constitution. Then they should make a drive
for popular support by instituting
a program worthy of support. Finally, when the organization is as
strong as any one class, then let
them seek control of representation.
I suggest that the Society interview
the Medical Society Executive as
to their system of organization.

Campus Comment-
(Continued from Page One)

at

We have heard that negotiations
are under way to hold the swimming
meet for the Halifax Ladies’ Championship before Christmas. This
will probably be held the first week
in December, before exams. There
is lots of good material here and|
Dal ought to go over with a bang
at that meet.

aie 6

GROUND HOCKEY

There will be a practice from 12
to 1 on Tuesday. The D.A.A.C.
has given the field so that the girls
may practice for the game with
Edgehill, which is on Wedn ;
Dal Cubs Beaten : ec
By Wanderers Seconds P. T.:

The Cubs took their fourth beat-| Freshman gym classes are having
ing of the year—their third from|rather odd results. It seems that
the Wanderers—last Saturday. The|in these classes the girls learn
Cubs were not in the same class at| dances of different sorts, and the
all with the strong Wanderers’ side| latest of these is the “Lambeth
and were outplayed the whole game.| Walk”. This proved so popular that

There are many players in the| now they are doing it in the Fresh
college who could strengthen the| man show.
Cubs’ team if they would come out; Another interesting thing we
and play. Experience on the Cubs’| learned was that the boys want to
team should develop players for| learn the Rye Waltz. Miss Wray
the senior team, but very few men| told us (very confidentially) that
go up to the senior team from the| if there were enough wanting it she
Cubs. If more don’t turn out Coach| would be absolutely delighted to
Pooh DeWolfe threatens to resort| tackle them. Don’t all speak at
to conscription to fill out a team. once, boys!

 

SWIMMING

As Wanderers are the team they Won Lost
have to beat, the game this Satur- DAW cc bce cba Dis evan Alte 0 DELICIOUS
day is the most important game of £17.75 RO a eee ree De a sas tek ends 0 FLAVORS
the year. No one at last week’s BSS oh cat's bok dee paces 1
game was disappointed; those ae PRON oa ae he Moore Oy eat Meret 0 LEMON
stayed away missed the fun of a real Freshmen...... Oivacwabie ees 2 ORANGE
NOTICE STRAWBERRY
The positions of manager of gym- Insist on Getting VANILLA

nastics, manager of badminton are
still open and applications will be
accepted by .W. R. Lawson, Secretary of D.A.A.C., until midnight on
Saturday, Nov. 5th, 19388.

 

 

 
 
     

Donovan’s Beverages
15 - Different Flavors - 15

BORDEAUX

C.3710

W. H. DONOVAN
45 GRANVILLE ST. _B-6821

They Whistle While They Work

Neither rain nor sleet, nor snow keeps our skilled tailors from
checking in every morning to go to work on your Tip Top suit or
coat—and yours—and yours. They love their work—because it's
so individual . . . every garment tailored to the exact blue-prints
of the man who ordered it. Just you wear a Tip Top suit—there’s
quite a story behind the seams. Craftsmanship—is its title,

$2 G95

HAND-CUT AND TAILORED TO YOUR PERSONAL MEASUREMENTS

422 Barrington Street

TTUF338

ee

 
