  

ppg

  

* see etre ©

Ls
a

*

 

a ——— ee > : aan
‘ay ; ae . a
<2 oe = neers
— <a J 7 "_he = Vin ad 1
‘ — 4 a — : a é
= . a
: : ' '

VOL. LXXI

 

 

Gym Committee Fines Students Capital Close-up

Refused Right
To Appear

 

‘Fined for violating the smoking
regulations in the Gymnasium, two
students at Studley were denied permission by the President on Friday
to appear before the Senate Gymnasium Committee, the body which
fined them, and to defend themselves
against the charge. This refusal
was received after the students had
finally managed to secure permission to appear before the Committee
itself, to have their protest considered. Both students refuse to say
anything for publication, but it has
been learned that their original fines
have been doubled, due to further
accusations that they have again
‘violated the smoking regulations.

- It has always been the custom of
the Senate Gymnasium Committee

‘to impose fines on students after

‘investigation, but not to ask for
‘statements from the accused. It is
understeod that it is this attitude
that: the students protest, as much’
‘as the accusation made against themselves.

Film Society
Presents Satire

Bes

‘On January 20th, the Dalhousie
Film Society will present the French
motion picture, “Dr. Knock,” based
on the famous French novel of the
game name. It is a subtle satire on

 

the medical profession, telling the].
story of an unscrupulous doctor who.

establishes a practice in a small
French town and proceeds to make
money by telling the healthy burghers and peasants that they have all
manner of non-existent se ae and

. diseases.

The Film Society regrets very
much the unfortunate break in ,the
film which occured during the show
(Continued on page four)

 

NOTICE

On Sunday night at 8.30, Lieut.Commdr. B. R. Spencer of the
Canadian Navy will address the Dalhousie Group of the icin api
Fellowship.

His subject will be “LIFE WITH
A CAPITOL ‘L’”,

All students are invited to attend
this open meeting to be held in the
board room of the Council House,
163 Young Avenue, (corner Inglis).

 

HOCKEY
There will be hockey practices
Sunday, 12 to 1, and Monday,

Wednesday, and Friday 6-7.

 

BADMINTON TOURNAMENT

Entries close for Men’s, Women’s |

and Mixed Doubles, Friday, January 7th, at 5 p. m.

Finals to be played Saturday,
seats Lath.

 

v4 OPEN HOUSE
Delta Gamma “Open House” will
be resumed Saturday, January 14th.
All members of Delta Gamma and
oe escorts are eligible to attend.

 

:

ares _ MIDLOTHIAN

‘There - will be a meeting of the
Midlothian Society, Monday, January 9th, at 4.30 in the girls’ Common
Room, Shirreff Hall. Jackie Cahan
will read a paper on Siegfried
Sassoon.

 

DramaCompetition

To Start t Soon

The .long-heralded drama derby
for the Connolley Shield is about to
commence, the starting line set for
Wednesday night, January 25.

The initial contenders, Newman
Club and Player’s Guild, began the
warming-up process this week by
selecting one-acters by two popular
dramatists, Coward and Shaw.

If you have been at Dalhousie long
enough to recall that classic production, Noel Coward’s “Hay Fever”
you may thrill with anticipation at
the prospect of Coward’s “Hands
Across the Sea”. This play, which
is one of the “Tonight at 8.30”
series and has just had its premiere
in the United States, will be pro
| duced for the first time to a Halifax

audience by the Newman’ Club,
Casting has not been completed but
it is expected that Sally Smith,
Walter Lawson and Adine Oland of
Freshman Show fame, will take
leading roles.
Player’s Guild, last year’s. dark
horse in the race, have decided on
Shaw’s _ Overruled”. If you like
Shaw you’ll enjoy this. If you don’t
come and appreciate the fine acting
that Dr. Taylor, of the Medical
Faculty, can produce. . Casting for |
the one-act farce is being done today
by Dr. Taylor.
Professor C. L. Bennet, who an
nually puts on the finest one-act |

drama, single handed, has again
consented to be adjudicator and will
do his part on the final night of the
Shield. competition. when the winner

Sodales Plans
Busy Term

 

 

“Mt. Allison and St. F. X. Universities will play hosts to Dalhousie
debating teams in the near future,
according to the schedule recently
worked out by the Maritime Intercollegiate Debating League. Dalhousie will also compete with a team
from the University of New Brunswick in a home debate,” said John

‘Dickey, Sodales head, in a recent

interview. Dal will also take part in
radio debates, send delegates to the
Conference of Martime University
Students at St. F. X, this winter, and
conduct a series of inter-class debates for the Bennett Shield.
Started a few years ago, the
Maritime Intercollegiate Debating
League now includes King’s, Acadia,
Mount Allison, University of New
Brunswick, St. F. X., and Dalhousie.
Dalhousie and King’s will be hosts
to the executive of the league, which
will meet this March in Halifax.
Arrangements for the radio debates have not yet been completed,
but Dalhousie will take part. in at
least three debates. N egotiations
have also been started with the
Canadian Broadcasting Corporation
for a series of debates over ae

‘Maritime network.

The Conference of Maritiine’ ein.
dents to be held-at St.’F. X. will take
the place of the Model League Assembly, which has been held in
recent years.

Inter-class debates in competition
for the Bennett Shield will be arranged shortly. 5

HALIFAX, N.S8., JANUARY 7, 1939

 

By ROSS MUNRO
C.U.P. Correspondent

 

OTTAWA — The wheat problem
ranks with the railway and national
defence as major issues for the next
Parliament, starting Jan. 12. The
Canadian farmer and urban dweller
are both vitally concerned with the
growing of wheat. Everyone in the
Dominion is in the wheat business
whether they like it or not. While
the prairie farmer harvested a good
crop this year and is being paid 80
cents a bushel for No. 1 Northern
at Fort William, the Government is
losing more than 20 cents a bushel
because of this guaranteed price
and the. fact world wheat prices are
flirting with the 50-cent-a-bushel
mark.

‘It is generally conceded that the
fixed price saved the West this year,
but in the saving process the rest
of the Dominion paid for it through
the Dominion treasury to the tune
of about $45,000,000.

Agricultural authorities here clear
(Continued on page four)

 

Maritimers.

Meet Yankees.

During the Christmas holidays
(Dec. 27-Jan. 1) a joint conference
of the Student. Christian Movements
of the Maritime Provinces and the
New England States was held at
Intervale, New Hampshire.

The main leader was Dr. Gregory
Vlastos, professor of philosophy at
Queen’s University, who gave a
series of talks, followed by discussions, on “The Dynamic and Imperative of the Christian Religion.”
His clear analysis of essential religion and what it means for us, who
are so dependent on society that
loss of social background and a
sense of community often results in
loss of sanity itself, was a challenge
to all who heard him to work in the
most effective way possible towards
a society in which every person is
treated as a person: an end in himself and not merely a means for
running a factory and making a
profit.

(Continued on page four)

 

 

Choral Society
Practice Wed.

Harry Dean, Director of the Maritime Academy of Music, the Halifax
Philharmonic Society, and the choir
of Fort Massey Church, will again
take the baton for the Dalhousie
Choral Society when rehearsals commence next Wednesday evening at
7.30 in the main entrance of the
Gymnasium. At the piano will be
George Little, Class ’41, and senior
student at the Maritime Academy of
Music.

Contraltos, tenors, and basses are
needed to swell the ranks and make
full use of the adequate number of
selections which have been provided
by the Glee Club and to surpass the
high standard set by last year’s
Choral Society. There is room for
fifty more singers. So, if you are
a soprano join your voice with the
lyric notes of Ethel MacKenzie and
Co., if an alto help to increase the
mellow tones of Marjorie Wood et
al, if a tenor blend your voice with
the golden sounds of Lloyd Dalton,
if a bass try to rock in the cradle
of the deep with Norman McRitchie,
Bob Armstrong, etc.

 

  

 

 

 

    
 

—
No. 11

 

l etter from Paris Australians DefeatDalhousie

 

By DAVID R. FRASER
(CUP Feature)

 

Paris on Ice.

It would undoubtedly sound
strange to many Canadians if they
were told to come to this part of
the world to find a super-skating
rink. However, the French have
taken up this winter pastime in a
unique and deliberate manner.

One rink in Paris is by far the
smartest and most elaborate which I
have.even seen. The wall are covered with illuminated Alpine scenery, consisting of snow-covered
mountains, log cabins, skiers, etc.

At the far end of the rink there
is a log chalet covered with artificial snow. Inside it is a typical
“Parisian cafe,’ where skaters can
get a “pick-me-up” after a few falls
on the ice.

Along one side is a glassed-in
gallery which resembles a country
club dining room. Here one can
sit and watch figure-skating performances while partaking of light

refreshments.

Even the” attendants in the comfortably furnished dressing-rooms
are smartly attired in skiing outfits,
all of which adds colour to the
make-up of the place.

 

Social Consciousness.

At this ice palace there are two
distinct classes ‘of society, those who
wear fancy-skates and the “lowbrows” who wear tube skates.
However, all that one has to do, in
order to become one of the elite, is
to appear in a beret, a pair of curved blades, and then attempt to
waltz on the ice surface. If you are
new at the game, there are two
professional instructors to teach you
some of the finer points of figureskating, this also helping you to
raise your social standing!

The ice is usually crowded with
enthusiasts, many of whom are obviously beginners. For their. benefit, attendants on the rink act as
traffic cops to slow down any speed
demon who dares to skate faster
than the rest of the meandering
herd. On the other hand, there are
some very smooth figure-skaters
here who would certainly draw a
round of applause at any carnival
in Canada,

This ice surface, in such a setting,
provides a real novelty, and is tending to make skating a fashionable
social sport in the heart of Paris.

Arts Society

“TO BE OR NOT TO BE”

The fate of the Arts and Science
Society still hands in the balance,
while being weighed by the committee of three appointed at the
last pre-Christmas meeting of the
Students’ Council. This committee,
composed of Zilpha Linkletter, Geo.
Hagen and Peter Nicholson, is to
study the proposed Constitution of
the Arts and Science Society before
it is voted on by the Students’
Council.

In the meantime the Arts and
Science Society activities are at a
standstill. An energetic executive
is vainly trying to promote and
sustain interest that was aroused at
the last meeting. With this in mind
they have fallen back on the usual
method—a dance. Where and.when
is as yet indefinite, according to
President Douglas McKean, but

“we'll soon know,” says he.

 

 

Glee Club Expects
Big Season

 

Faced with a heavy schedule of
at least five shows to be run off in
the space of ten-weeks, Glee Club
has already been two months in rehearsal, they say, and most of the
work on at least two of the other
shows (the Connolley Shield nights)
is done by the organizations competing for the Shield, given for the
best performance of a one-act play
by a college society.

Two of the five nights are devoted
to the Connolley Shield’ one-acters

 

(the first of which will be Wednes- |
day, January 25; one is given over to |

the Freshman musical “Ali Baba”,
scheduled for Wednesday, Feb.
a night in February will be taken up
with a three-act play, as yet unchosen; and finally, the Glee Club
will close its strenuous season with
the Munro Day Show,
March 14. If many more entries are
received for the Connolley Shield
competition, it may be necessary to

add yet another night to the present |
difficult to designate a‘ single sub
schdule, bringing the total number

_of post-Xmas presentations up to
‘SIX.

Rehearsals have already recom
menced -for the Freshman Show,
which was postponed last November,

because of the nearness of its production date to the examinations.

We Resolve’

 

About this time, most people turn |...

to the old practice of making New
Years’ resolutions. It’s no disgrace,
everybody does it. I-guess it’s an
example of mob psychology. Anyway, it’s certainly great making
resolutions, even though they are
never kept. So, in keeping with the
spirit of the times, your inquiring
reporter has attempted to outline a
few of the outstanding resolutions
on the campus.

Here we go:—

Inez Smith:

Some new records for. the nickelodian, to aid in the penny digging.
Better eats at the. Boilermakers’
than they had at the Law Ball.

Don Williams:
Agree with half my professors.
Absolutely refuse to act in any more

 

 

S. C. M. Sponsors
Tuesday Addresses

LECTURE SERIES TO START

Student Christian Movement activities for the term will be featured by a Tuesday noon lecture
series on _ religious beliefs, with
various city clergymen as speakers.
Further details will .be announced
later.

Among the visitors who will be
brought to the campus by the S. C.
M. are Phil Beattie, National Secretary of the Movement, who has just
returned from the Madras Conference and will arrive in February;
and also Miss Lydia Gruchey, of
the United Church of Canada.

It is expected that Grant Lathe,
a member of the student delegation
to China, who is. coming to: Dalhousie under the auspices of the
Canadian Student Assembly, will
give an address sponsored by the

 

'S.C.M,.

Tuesday, |

|inantly personel to the writer,
1; |

 

Rhetoric vs Logic

 

With the arrival of the Australian
debating team, Messrs Hugh Robson
and Fred Thonemann, Sodales went
down under. Mr. Finlay and Mr.
Petrie of Dalhousie can, however,
at least reflect that they have merely joined the host of oratorical opponents laid low in the course of
the Australians’ triumphant sweep
across Canada. And despite the contest’s occurrence in that dim B, C.
—Before Christmas—period, the interest displayed by the gratifyingly
large audience encourages some
comment on the debate even at this
late hour. It may be noted that the
following criticisms are not predombut
have been gleaned largely from the
observations of various members of
the audience.

It can first of all, I think, be said
that the visitors’ victory depended
on a pleasant presentation, an. easy
fluency of ‘expression, rather than
on argument. Indeed, conducting a
mental post mortem. over the speeches-of the Australians, it would be

stantial bulwark of fact or- logic
But that is not the point. The gentlemen from Down Under have, like
the English, apparently grasped the

,essential truth that persuasiveness

thirty.

—even momentary persuasiveness—
with its elements of diction, vocabulary, striking metaphor, wit and
gentle or biting satire, is a far more
effective debating weapon than the
most imposing array of facts and
(Continued on page four)

 

Vea Book

In Preparation

 

If you have not already ordered
your copy of the 1939 Pharos there
is no time like the present. Unless
sales show more promise by the end
of the month, there. will be. only
three hundred copies for general distribution, and your chance of ‘obtaining one gets poorer every day.
A deposit of one dollar is necessary
to secure a copy, the balance of one
dollar to be paid on Munro Day,
when the books will be delivered.

The following students will take
orders for any number of copies:
Mary Hayman, Joan Blackwood,
Inez Smith and Walter Murphy in
the Arts and Science faculty; Fran
Martell (Education); Anne Hirsch
(Law); and Jim Rankin, Jo Gallant
and Clary Gosse (Editor) in the
Medical School. Roy Atwood at the
Studley Store, will also take orders
from anyone who is unable to make
arrangements with any of these
students,

At present only half of the Arts
and Science pictures have been
taken, although the professional
faculties have completed their photography. The dead line for pictures
is Friday, January 13. Dalhousie
students may have sittings at the
studios of Gauvin and Gentzel any
afternoon next week after twoIf for any reason you do not
have you work done by Mr. Gauvin
do not fail to secure a glossy print
of the proper size.

Students who have been asked to
write up the various societies are
advised that the material must be in
the hands of Editor or some member of his staff by the fifteenth at
the very latest.

 
 

 

sie M Gacette

The views expressed in any column of The Gazette are those of the author; it cannot be
assumed that they represent the opinion of the student body.

GAZETTE STAFF —

Editor: BERNARD GRAHAM - - - - -_ B-5033
News Editor: WALTER MURPHY o “3. 3 Ole
Asst. News Editor: BARBARA MURRAY - - H-5152
Sports Editor: DOUGLAS LYALL - - - - B-2607
Business Manager: SIDNEY A. GILLIES - - _ B-5487

 

 

NATIONAL SCHOLARSHIPS

In some parts of the world university students have a
historic reputation for taking part in movements of consequence. They are renowned for their demonstrations supporting national causes, for their harbouring of new, progressive,
and often revolutionary ideas; to some extent they are even
famous for their persistence and effectiveness in obtaining
their demands. They took an active, and often dangerous,
part in the liberal movement in the last century and in the
rioting and revolutions which accompanied it. In China during
this century they have played a lively part in the national
awakening. :

Among the most ancient of student problems is that of
economic support. Though the solutions to this problem may
have been numerous and may have varied from age to age,
each generation has had to meet it for itself. For tradition to
have turned an efficient costume for beggars into a highly respected and admired academic gown (the pockets in the
sleeves originally served to carry the contributions received
by students who maintained themselves by begging in bygone
centuries; today these pockets are largest in gowns of doctors
of philosophy, which are worn so frequently by university
presidents, deans, and department heads; perhaps because they
have to “beg” for others as well as for themselves ;) does not
support needy students in 1939. Like their now respected,
even revered, predecessors of the Middle Ages, many now must
have economic support if they are to pursue higher studies.

But today such “door to door’ begging is not an adequate
er aeceptable method of support. Nevertheless, the student
still deserves such assistance, for his work and training are
as valuable to the community as ever and are now of greater
political, commercial, industrial, and social importance than at
any previous time. That this fact has received continuously
increasing recognition is attested by the ever growing, but
always inadequate, university endowments and grants. ‘These,
however, do not feed and: clothe students who have no means
with which te feed and clothe themselves. “et

During recent years national student groups have considered the problem of providing such needed support. It has
seemed: that scholarships adequate for the purpose could be
provided by the federal. government, and the following resolution, introduced: in- the House’ of Commons on February 24th,
1987, by Paul Martin (Liberal—Essex East) brought up the
subject:

“WHEREAS, the important industrial nations of the world
are spending largé sums annually on scholarship systems, to
insuré that the most brilliant: of their boys and girls may not
be prevented because of a: lack of financial resources, from_se
at adequate academic training to take their proper place.

as thoroughly trained leaders in the industrial, profession, and
public life of their respective’ countries ;

AND WHEREAS, in this age of scientifie advance in all
walks of life; Canada cannot afford to longer ignore and lose
the tremendous asset which it possesses in the latent ability
for trained leadership in the brightest of her young people;

THEREFORE: BE IT RESOLVED: That in the opinion’

of this house, following the practice already established in

Great Britain and other industrial countries, the Government
should investigate the desirability of a system of National

Scholarships to be made available to outstanding students who

are financially unable to continue their education, to’ enable

them to secure under-graduate and (or) post-graduate training
in our Universities, University Colleges, and technical schools.”

Although it is no easy matter to obtain effective action of
this type, the Canadian Student Assembly has been working

assiduously to have the government discern the necessity and

wisdom of establishing such a system of scholarships. A brief
was presented to the Rowell Commission. All summer work
was carried out on plans and organization. Since last autumn
publicity has been given to the movement; especially in central
and western Canada, and considerable support has been secured. At their convention in July, 1938, the Conservative
Party adopted a resolution endorsing a system of national
scholarships. Approval has been given to the schemé by educational bodies, including the Senate of McGill University.

Just at present efforts are being made to secure wide
public and student support for the following petition which
Canadian students will take to Ottawa this February:

“WHEREAS, lack of financial means prevents many young
Canadians of ability from securing a University education;

AND WHEREAS, in Canada at present, there are fewer
than a dozen scholarships at the under-graduate level, of sufficient value to permit an otherwise unaided student to secure
a University education;

AND WHEREAS, the experience of some of the great

nations of the world has demonstrated the value of such ‘scholarships in contributing to the national life;

AND WHEREAS, a precedent for’ the proposed grant exists in the Technical Education Act of 1919;

We theréfore petition the Government of Canada:

1: To adopt the résolution introduced by Paul Martin
(M.P. Lib., Essex East), in the House of Commions, on Febriary 24th, 1937. ;

2. To introduce a bill to provide a thousand’ Federal
Scholarships for Canadian University’ Students; such scholarships to be of sufficient amount to be the determining factor
in the attendance of the student at University.

3. To grant a sufficient sum annually to the provinces to
carry out such legislation, such grants to be conditional upon
the provinces sétting up a suitable organization to administer
the provisions of such 'an act, the fund 'to be distributed among

the provinces’ proportionately to their populations.”

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

ALHOUSIE
IGEST

Here we are all back again in our
College by the sea fringed with ice,
in a place where winter is winter and
the air is as cold as an Eskimo’s
nose. This fur-lined article is being
written with mittens, on a _ typewriter off which the frost has to be
scraped every quarter of an hour.
Two keys have been broken in the
past few minutes by heavy chunks
of your correspondent’s breath fall
ing upon them.

People who go South for the
winter and hence never catch a
glimpse of their own breath, miss an

experience that is interesting and

illuminating. Our breath turns out
to be a deep purple with alternating
stripes of orange and green.

As we sit here, on this cold winter
night and on this hot water bottle,
all the good old friendly winter
sounds are wafted up to our ears,
which were frozen a few days ago
and are therefore not as good
waftees as they might be.

From the street corner comes the
merry clanking of automobile chains
and the screams of occupants as they
skid around the corner on the ice.

Is that the merry jingle of sleigh
bells? No, it is the water-pipes,
which have burst again. Goody,
then we shall have skating in the
parlor this evening, and perhaps’ skiing on the front stairs.

Where are the new shirts and ties
we got for Christmas? Stuffing
cracks to keep out the cold. What
kind of cold? Intense cold. Do the
shirts: and neckties keep out the intense’ cold? They do not.

What is that sound that makes our
frost-bitten' éars prick up? Sounds
like Hitler or Mussolini.

tonsils’ of the Student Body.

 

And speaking of people with
colds, we have noticed several types
on the campus so far this year.

First there is the unbearable who
does not ask for sympathy but goes
about in his own manner to obtain
this quality in bountiful supplies.
He sheds tears after a round of
coughing and sneezing—soft, warm
tears that poorly suggest the fire he
is sustaining in his breast. He will
sigh sadly, gaze steadily before himself, then snatch hurriedly for his
handkerchief and settle into an attack on your sympathy. He endures
mustard baths, nasty medicines or
favorite prescriptiéns of his friends
but will be careful, when no one is
looking not to rid himself too quickly
of this, his only means of attracting
attention and sympathy, and no
doubt with the passing of his cold
the sorrow of such a student will
know no bounds.

Secondly there is the type of student who can ‘be depended on to have
two or three colds a year on specific
dates. He will reminisce and compare the degreés of agony and
temperature through which he has
struggled on previous occasions,
much in the manner of those who
discuss operations. Included in this
class is the Sneezer, the Sniffer, and
the Handkerchief Forgetter.

The classical’ example of the
Sneezer is to be found in the immortal “Sneezy” by Mr. Disney. He
is the person who disturbs the whole
classroom with an audible inhalation
of air and explode with an ‘“Ah-ch0000”. Horrible sound. Then this
type has his counterpart in the
Sneezer who inhales heavily to “let
one go” and after several grunts and
Sharp wheezings just “peters out”
—and lets you down.

_ Sniffer is the most meek of all
cold sufferers. His very demeanour
is apologetic and wistful. He sits in
the back of the lecture-room, and
mournfully, as well as audibly,
draws what oxygen he can up into
channels raw and irritated. The result is a rattling sound’ quite antagonistic to sensitive ears.

Into ‘this class the Handkerchief
Forgetter autoriatically falls. Of all
types he ‘is the’ most répugnant un
Obiter

guished predecessors in office.
that in 1939 we have peace with
No} it is T .
the patter 6f grippeé germs as’ they Gather ye rosebuds while ye may,
march by the sextillidii orto the Old time is still a-flying;

 

At this time of year we can either
look forward or backward. If we
look forward it is only to make campaign promises to ourselves, which
we have no lasting intention to keep,
so that the future need not bother
us for the present. If we look back,
we can ruminate on the significant
events of the past year, and maybe
we can profit from our experiences
and mistakese (if any).

Last year saw Hitler don his seven
(or was it nein? No, it was ja)
league boots and walk over the centre of Europe. This is not so terrible as it might seem, as everyone
in Austria today approves of Hitler.
True, there may have been some last
spring who disapproved, but do you
ever hear anything from them now?
No you don’t. Can you? No you
can’t. Hitler made headlines again
some months later when he crept
into Czec—Bohemia. That was important because it gave Prime Minister Chamberlain an opportunity to
misquote some one of his distin
So it

out honor (if Chamberlain can’ misquote, why can’t I?) and for our
time. Sometimes one is’ inclined to
think that Chamberlain doesn’t expect to live long.

Now, let me think, no, trere were
no abdications last year. But there
was the morning I awoke at six
o’clock, turned over in bed, brought
my hand out from under the covers
and found a dead mouse in it. Gosh,
was that ever a crisis. I think I can
truly say that it was ore of the few
times in my life that I was out of
bed so early. From a news story
about a month ago we learn that
“swing” has gone out, and we now
tave “Sweet swing”. These things
don’t last very long.

And that sweet swing’ that’s here
today
Tomorrow may be dying:
(With apologies).
ee i 3
The Sins of Omission.

In two Canadian provinces democracy haS been carried to one of its
various logical conclusions. In Quebee they still have the Padlock Law,
and out west they still have Social
Gredit. If the people want it, it is
only demo¢ratic to give it to them.
Srangely, democracy as practiced in
A'berta doesn’t meet with such complete approval in Ottawa as does
democracy as practiced in Quebec.
It can’t be that Ottawa’s thinking is
influenced by elections, surely? Still,
sixty-five is to eighteen as government is to opposition. Maybe the
reason is legal. That would explain
everything. Finally, marking’a step
toward a new world, but one that
was not taken, examinations were
not abolished at Dalhousie. The
outlook, far an near, seems pretty
good, if we overlook the rather weak
spots on the canvass. What we need
is faith that England is not so dumb
as she appears to be; and I am
tempted to add that she couldn’t be.

—J. B. M.

 

He:
She:
He:
She:
He:

“Do you drink?”

“No, I don’t drink.”

“Do you smoke ?”

“No, I don’t smoke.”

“Do you neck?”

She: “No, I don’t neck.”

He: “Well, what do you do?”
She: “I tell lies.”

—The Sheaf.

Sing a song of’ sixpence,

A pocket full of rye—

The bottle must have busted!
—McGill Daily.

 

bearable. He is usually the guy who
gave you your last cold. He is the
sort of fellow for whom Kleenex was
made... but we’ll always have him
with us.

There you have the types we’ve
seen on Studley so far this year.
Could it be that fear of these social
lepers was what miade the classes’ so
small Wednesday; or was it fear of
going absolutely insane if asked once
moré: “How’dje do in your exams” ?

 

   
    

January 7, 1939

 

“Are you looking for a Red Cap?”

“No, for a Sweet Cap.”

SWEET CAPORAL CIGARETTES

“The purest form in which tobacco can be smoked.”

He:
wrong with this engine.”

She: “Don’t be foolish. Wait until we get off this main road.’—The

“Something seems to be

Gateway.

Farmers’

 

“Say Jean, can I come over tonight?”

“Sure Jack, come on over.”

“But this isn’t Jack.”

“Well, this isn’t Jean, either.”—
The Gateway.

Ice Crea m

| IS OF OUTSTANDING QUALITY

“Taste the difference”

FARMERS’ LIMITED

18 SPRING GARDEN ROAD

Special Rates to Students — 24 Hour Finishing Service

 

  

Phone B 6992

 

 

The Nova Scotia Technical College |
Offers Engineering Courses |

in }

CIVIL, ELECTRICAL, MECHANICAL, and MINING |
To Dalhousie Students with Engineering Diplomas. |

Modern Equipment, Instructing Staff with Individual Experience.
Twenty Free Scholarships of $75.00 each for Nova Scotian Students.

Write or call for Calender or advice to

F. H. SEXTON, President.

 

 

) THE BEST CHOCOLATE

C.377

 

 
    
     

1
fa
ie

 

Disperine
Gallery

AFTERMATH (17)

 

weaeTe we dre...
1000 sleepy people... ”

Back again, only it seems as
though the holidays had never been,
and as someone remarked he was
going back to college to get a rest—
aren’t we all? Naturally to start
the New Year right we have the
Xmas exams flung at us from every
angle. The chief trouble seems to
be the bad handwriting: on the part
of the students rather than what
they wrote. As one professor said
“if members of his class wrote three
books in two hours of illegible handwriting, how much would they write
in three?” Seems to him not to be
80 much a problem in mathematics
as a problem in the survival of the
fittest of the species termed Professor. But, set a prof down in the
with the fans going full blast,

the anatomy students “dotting” hell
for leather—you would think they
passed on the number of dots per
square inch of exam paper alone
rather than knowledge—and only
two hours in which to save his soul,
and see what kind of writing he
would produce? The answer would
probably be that given to the Eng
lish 1 syrvivors, “Why don’t you take |,

up typewriting ? .
We are very glad to know that at
least one professor is interested
enough this term in the welfare of
the students to make a comprehensive survey of the mechanical side of
examination writing. Some of the
questions asked are: Do you like the
type of paper used, or would you
prefer single sheets? would you like
the professors to sit at the front of
the room, walk up ‘atid down, or stay
at the back in the corners? It goes |’
without asking’ that nobody appreci- |
ates the whispering. gallery of the
professors which at times becomes
the wailing wall of Jerusalem! Do
you find it difficult to write because
of lack of elbow room? Do you find
your thoughts: are hindered by the

‘of the fan? Any other com:
ints of this kirid will be gladly
ernie at the Gazette office and
thenée forwarded to the professors’
concerned, This is not an idle suggestion, but we mean it, since the
professors themsélves are unable to
judge correctly the conditions under
which we write.

By row all the Xmas presents
from DEAR Aunt Matilda and
Great-uncle Sebastian have been
delegated. to the attic — why in
Heaven’s name must they send
pyjamas that would rouse even
Ferdinand on sight and socks that
would make a zebra cross-eyed?
Here’s to a class for adult education
of distant relatives in the art of
choosing bigger and better ‘“remembrances”—cash payment thankfully
received. We see that Santa has
been very good to some members on
the campus since three bold spirits
are sporting bowlers, and saddle
shoes are now a thing of the past.
We hope that by now all the New
Year’s cards have been sent off to
those well-meaning souls who sent
you Xmas cards, but whom you
somehow overlooked in those “five
more shopping days”. I got four
Xmas cards yesterday and I can’t
make up my mind whether it’s pity,
or the senders didn’t have enough
money to invest in the usual New
Year’s greeting — why not wait a
while until Easter rolls around?

Life on the campus seems to be
full of excitement. Two dances on
the coming Fridays and can you believe it, there is a Glee Club show
scheduled for the twenty-fifth. Not
the Freshman Show, alas — surely
the heavy rehearsing done for that
collossal extravaganza before Xmas
cannot be responsible for the number of Freshmen that dropped by the
roadside in the last examinations.
Maybe Our Hattie can enlighten us
on this point. But in any case, two
Bare, are being produced, “Over
by Shaw,
coeae Guild, and Coward's
ands Across the Sea,” by

Newman Club. Perhaps the Glee!

‘lub is a Phoenix after all. Rumors

 

presented by

Lee

Here and There

Sponsor Lectures on Journalism

Montreal, P.Q. (CUP)—“‘I’m a
Professional Snooper”, an address
delivered by Austin F. Cross to a
group of McGill students, is the first
in a series of talks on journalism
sponsored by the “McGill Daily”.
Other talks will be: “Public Relations versus Propaganda”; “What
Every Man Should Know—About
Libel and Plagiarism”; “‘Radio—the
20th Century News Medium”; “How
to be an Author—In One Lesson”;
“Gathering and Editing the World’s
News”; “Advertising—the Bread and
Butter of Journalism”; “The Publisher Looks at News”; “The Mind
of the Critic Laid Bare”; and ‘Pictorial Journalism’’.

Silhouette Cover to be Sold

Hamilton, Ont. (CUP)—A white
manila folder, with the single word
“Silhouette” thereon will soon be
sold at ten cents a piece on the
campus of McMaster University. The
folder is designed as a cover for a
year’s issues of “The Silhouette,”
official student newspaper. Proceeds
of the sale will go to the Gym Fund.

 

Archery is being: enthusiastically
received at the University of Alberta, especially by the co-eds. Cupid
will have to go on relief!

of Ag +e

The University of Alberta Golden

Bear Hockey team recently played

the University of Southern California team. While in California they
visited Twentieth Ceritury Fox Studios, and even had their pictures
taken with sonie movie stars. Maybe a trip like this would’ encourage
the Dal hockey team?

a * *

The University of Saskatchewan
‘s offering a Junior Prom Trophy,
'n order to encourage more students
-o attend more formal social func
3

tions.

A “date bureau” will operate at’)
the University of Saskatchewan this’),
It will be similar to those}
in several United States colleges; its |
nurpose will be to bring lonely |

winter.

hearts together. Since it will not
have the official approval of the
faculty, it will be run by a medical
student from his boarding’ house.

* * *

The McGill version of Santa Claus’
is a shagging, trucking, jovial St.
Nick, who was the central attraction
at the Arts Christmas Informal. If
the traditional Santa Claus follows
this model its going to be a hard
year on chimneys.

 

A young lady was on a sight-seeing
tour in Detroit recently. Going out
Jefferson Avenue on a sight-seeing
bus, the driver was calling out places
of interest.

Driver: “On the right we have the
Dodge home.”

Lady: “John Dodge.”

Driver: “No, Horace Dodge.”

Driver: “On the — we have the
Ford home.”

Lady: “Henry Ford?”

Driver: “No, Edsel Ford.”

Still further out Jefferson.

Driver: “On the right we have the
Christ Church.”

At this point an interested passenger tapped the lady on the
shoulder, saying: “Go ahead, lady,
you can’t be wrong all the time.”

—The Manitoban.
around the campus say there is go
ing to be a wild party in the county
jail this week-end, and that the numbers are being very carefully checked
—we must be exclusive you know!
Ah well, boys will be boys! By the
way, what happened to the Med results? We know one second year
who came back two days too soon,
in order to get them, but then we
aren’t all as anxious as that, or are
we? Like the poor, they are ever
with us.

Oné mustn’t forget this is a new
year and east things are promised | *
in the fu I may be pessimistic
but I still ‘think all those things that
were toasted so warmly—not wisely
but too well, as Mr. Norman would

Say, — are still just around the

: corner like prosperity. But then

what’s the use of having the New
Year's spirit if it’s not inside you?

 

= 1? eee

The last of the Hillers, with the
exception of those who couldn’t say
goodbye, have by now left the cozy
fireside and two weeks of ease to
dust off their books once more and
start down the second and last lap
of this term’s grind.

Some of the lads returned with
cigars, some with yellow and purple
ties, and more than a few with visions of lists of names in the Herald
in which theirs is not included. The
very unpleasant little word “pluck”
seems to have lost its humor for several unfortunates, nor can they appreciate the fiendish glee experienced
by some of the Studley profs on
mere mention of the word. Truly
they have experienced the ‘“‘ruthlessness of the hangman”, to quote a
well known Doctor of Studley.

& * * *

In passing, we might say that Pete
Nick is still looking for something to
cat, in spite of the fact that the past
two weeks have been for him one
grand festival. To quote Pete: “A
turkey is too much for one, not.
enough for two; but I always like it
cold.”

“The Crowe” is at present working
on the phenomenal act of his sidekick “Riggy” Riggs, who surprised
the entire Hill by coming back with
five first divs. Detailed results of
“The Crowe’s” investigation will appear in the “Pine Hill Pepper Box”,
of which he is the editor, within the
coming month. We shall be glad to
bring you from the Pepper Box in
due time, this advice on how to make
first divs. along with many little
known facts about well known Hil
lers.
ie ey at

Many of us would like to know

why Stan MacQueen lost his identity
when returning from, his vacation

spent in his native island. Maybe

he too joins in the song of a swain

from Orangedale:

‘Me heart’s in Cape Breton,
Me Heart is not here,
Me heart’s in Cape Breton
A-chiasin’ the ‘deer’.”

* * * *

Christmas gifts are in evidence in
every room,’ ranging’ all the way
from pyjamas to portraits, Several
prospective graduates of Dal have
adorned the Residence with their
likenesses already, but Hillers are
not the only ones who have made
faces serve as gifts; witness, for example, the feminine features from
Dartmouth and elsewhere in Wally
MacPherson’s room and those of
other Don Juans.

* °K aK *~

It is evident that Pine Hill Gymnasium will experience its busiest
year in 1939. New gym equipment
has stimulated more interest. The
new billiard equipment has also filled a much needed requirement in
the Residence, which boasts several
masters of the cue. A tournament
for this year is now in order
billiard manager George MacLeod
says it will take place in a few
weeks, so that means there is still
some time to learn the finer points
of the game and stand a chance of
winning the Golden Trophy for this
year.

Student who failed in English 2:
“OQ Professor Bennet, I feel ashamed
that I failed in English—my own
language!!”

Professor Bennet: “Is it?”

Her: “I think dancing makes a
girl’s feet too big, don’t you?”

Him: “Yeah.”

Pause.

Her: “I think swimming gives a
girl awfully big shoulders, don’t
you?”

Him:

Pause.

Him: “You must ride quite a lot,

o.”—The Sheaf.

“Veah.”

Joe: “Have you got a picture of
yourself?”

Roommate: “Yeah.”

Joe: “Then let me use ‘that, mirror, I want to shave.”—The Maniitoban.

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Pine Hill Billets Book of Bunk |

    
 

 

CHAPTER I

This, the Fifth Book of Bunk in
the annals of the Lande of Dal, is
a chronicle of the activities of the
students and their societies with a
sprinkling of comment from the pen
of one who endeavours to reflect
campus opinion as a whole. Any
opinions expressed, however, are the
responsibility of the writer alone.

The last and Fourth Book of Bunk
ran in the Gazette during the year
of 1984-35.

1, And so it has come to pass
that once again the Studes have
returned to the Lande of Dal and
the camps of Studley and Forrest
ring from dawn to dusk with the
wails of the Many, for the slotter
of King Karl and his Profs was
great. And the Frosh again took
a might-y beat-ing and the males
laid it down to the Beaut-y of the
year-ling Shes and many are the
Rezolushuns of the Youth to Play
less and La-bour more,

2. And storees are told of the
past Vakashun and of the many
bowls of Cham-pane together with
other sweet wines of her Father’s
Cellar which were sipped on the Eve
of the New Year ahd of the Swelled
Heads which the greeted the Sun of
the First Morn of the Year, and of
the Great Oaths never again to let
the Sweet Nectar pass their lips;
but it has come to the ears of the
Kronicler that the journeys to the
Lande of Dal were of-ten made full
of glee by the Studes be-ing full of
the liquids of Bacc-hus.

3. And wear-y of the tales of
rev-elry the Studes re-tell happeneegns of the Au-tumn passed.
Of the rise and de-cline of the
Rug-by Fif-teen. Of the battle with
the Garnet-Blue warriors of. the lit
tle but might-y Camp at the ‘Town.

of the Wolf ard many are the
rea-sons given for dé-feat. But the
Most’ re-late that it is the fault of
King Kai for He rules there shall
be no pro-fesh-on-al coach’ throughout His Lande.

4. And many were the cries of
anger as a Stude from the Camp of
Forrest spoke of the Lit-tle Salesman, now

Po-li-teeks in-duced the Migh-tee
Council to part with one hundred
and eighty-five sheék-els
Common Treasury in ex-change for
@ mus-ic box called Whurl-itzer.
For the studes are dis-gusted with
their re-pre-sen-ta-tives for  replacing Glee Club or-ches-tras with
the boom-ing tones of the me-chani-cal Whurl-it-zer. But the Kronicler has noth-ing but en-vy for the
sil-ver tongued or-a-tory of the
Lit-tle Salesman which, it is said,
so stroked the Great Minds of the
Migh-tee Council that they fell into

. |&@ Drow-si-ness from which they have

never since recovered.

5. And one fair She from the
Hall of Shee-reff held forth on the
hand-some Invaders from the Lande
of Aus-tral-ia who so rough-ly used
the Shes of the Lande of Dal and,
verily, the tongues of the males from
Down Under wagged much and long
and much Heat issued in re-turn
from the Lips of the Shes of the
Lande of Dal.

6. And Lo! Much dangerous
ground was touched by the Studes
as they re-lated these tales of the
Past, for they spoke of the Great
Dane, who faces re-bell-ion daily in
the ranks of the Frosh, but it is the
wish of King Karl that the bodies
of the Frosh be trained and in the
Lande of Dal the King has but to
wish—and, be-hold, it is done.

7. And the stor-ee is told far and
wide by the studes of one who

tra-vell-ed many leagues across a

great Do-min-ion to the Lande of
Dal only to fall in-sen-si-ble at the
table of the Highest.

And here endeth the first chapter
of the fifth book.

 

History Prof.:
rand?”

Student: “A fan dancer and cut
the baby talk.”—The Gateway.

“Who was Taley
| day.

so-journ-ing™ in the
Faceul-tee of Arts; who by using”
the lanes and by-ways of Campus

of the

 

 

PERSONALLY
by Sally

 

Ah! Sweet Mystery of Life or
Love Conquers all.

Everybody has been commenting
on the fact that Pollyanna “isn’t
quite herself lately”. She used to be
such a likeable young thing with her
ups and downs like the rest of us,
and quite a presentable temper when
roused. Sadly now, I recall the days
we used to joke with her about her
name because now she has developed
an almost inhuman capacity to live
up to that very name.

During exam time (remember?)
she had the annoying habit of floating into a room and spreading
happiness and good cheer quite unselfishly. Then there was the day
she walked trustingly into Math
class and stayed the whole hour
because nobody thought of telling
her it wasn’t the French class she’d
meant to attend. When commenting
on it afterwards she admitted that
the professor looked a little different
but she didn’t think it was worth
worrying about.

Sometimes she eats lunch down at
the store. It’s a wonder and a joy
forever to watch the utter disregard
with which she attacks her smothered beef. It might as well be ambrosis as far as she’s concerned.
Sometimes she goes off in a complete
trance. Then it is that she gazes
kindly on the blaring nickelodian or
sighs good-naturedly when somebody
interrupts her to grab the salt.
Sometimes she laughs softly to herself, and excuses herself, giving us a
rather pitying look.

It’s. probably because we don’t
understand but it has practically become a point of honour with us
recently to try to get a rise out of
Pollyanna. She’s so hopelessly complacent that, in our opinion, she asks
for it. I thought I’d bait her on. the
subject of Christmas exams the other

ject sufficiently painful to bring on
a worried expression at least—but

| do you know what kind of an answer

I got? It was quite simple. All
shé said was, “they're not the most
important things in the world—let’s
talk about’ something more interesting,”

And ‘what’s been worrying me ever
since is the thought that after all—
wasn’t she right?

There’s Many a Slip.

We went out to Blank’s Department Store to shop one day and
when lunch time rolled around we
decided to stay because we hadn’t
nearly finished. Since both of us
had that thirty-inch feeling around
the waist we firmly decided to go to
the soda-fountain and have a really
light lunch.

We gaily asked the Synthetic
Blonde behind the counter what she
had, and I made the mistake of adding that we were planning to have
our lunch. The Synthetic Blonde
wearily leaned against the counter
and hopefully said, “There’s a tearoom upstairs.” We refused to take
the hint, however, and ordered some
sandwiches and coffee. At that point
our old pal, Maizie, rolled up. We
must have had a hungry look, because the first thing she said was,
“You must come back with me and
have lunch at my home.” I took one
look at the Synthetic Blonde and saw
that the light of battle was shining
in her eye, for she had already poured the coffee. But what could I do,
beeause already my better half was
accepting the invitation and soon |]
was being dragged away from the
counter. As I left I muttered something about cancelling the order, but
I could see without looking that it
was going to fall on unsympathetic
ears.

And that is why, my dear children,
I no longer frequent Blank’s De-.
partment Store.
picture of the Synthetic Blonde

hanging hopefully by the door, a :
carving knife in her hand, in hopes |||,
that her customer soon will be there. |

 

MODERN LANGUAGE
“Do you play golf with knickers ?”
“No, vit white pipples. .
—U. W. 0. Gazette.

 

It ought’ to have been @ sub-|.

I have a mental |

    

2 anal

Page Three

Gazette D’s

Below are the points towards gold
D’s that have been awarded for contributions to the Gazette before
Xmas 1938. Please report any
errors or omissions.

 

Ma BIO! ake aia cis: ae acd evans 2%
SUP IRE iba why} ois as uel tba Ge 1%
EHC WOOE. oe Sie ecceves 4%
Wee Bs ws ob ce ncwaes %
A | er 5
WHE Barend. occ cde Gwe 4
Pe ORO P eli Gu-ak eos sin ke 1%
Pia MEME Sie as die sa cee be ee’ 5/6
Mu RE Ce De xie'h ais dina 2%
Wis GERM ie cic W ack wiklaecas 55%
ey RIPPING Hd p52 oes b:0'9 4.0 2
ee CMC sls oaks ceive d's 11/7
Pp bets Vis Sew Say reads 6
Be CamnOenl! 5 she ice veces 5
Cy TOME i Gs Kb as blk cle es My
re oer Aes 's Oe ee ee %
We. Dalrymanle ....5 02.5005 ty
Oey Pea hs eae eke a Can 51/6
Cee EAA oe saves eat iy 1/8
an Os Sk ra’ oie ated 3
PEPER oo i a spe de oes «sas %
MEINE lo dean es cela water c 1%
Os THONGS Foie ek ee lea de 25%
LN isk Seles wcdbowed 13
Die EERRONE a's tw ew ate ewee atid 3%
Be eR. ek carpal a0 dre bares %
Diet MTNA oid cg ki lens eee oc te
By) WOR als Aiken adelet ims 3%
PILAR, Gh phis cintie ode biedes 4%
Ce Bate chev hie phils «gu 'esed 1%
ies Rak I Se cos weds 1/5
PO, GERM sk sided oye ys %
B. BEOUBR oss obese scdues 1
Be PAVIAGR Vache 0 oe e054) 1 2/3
Rae ENE, <5 5 oh vats « wine abn 7
SO a 11/8
at eT 5X S che. do's oat 3%
S. Bipkpattliek ....5ccsecees %
OO) AMIN 1 die oles apie SRS ade « ty
i EOREDE lao 9's wisi oisiscenah a aia 1/3
Pie BN sorcsaweh duccieaitansd 12
J, MacGuigan wm ie la een easter 1/3
PR scale: socierewbees’ 2/8
W. Mackenzie 5 georate a pieieibie ety 5
C, Mackenzie si dicihaipmeiens dats 8
EB. Mackenzie es ala ey as 2
W. Mackenzie ....... eSiehia 5
M. MACLEAN: fo.cis:s'sasin tos cn eah
ir Moret ic ies op sass 24
ADS a eran ae 32%
his. Wes DIREDES y:a.6 pare sehees 23
5, IRBRDOT: « pisdoy ns caneoints 25
a: POS 5 a. sixties 0x 90.048 © 1%
a MMT, no iris sre 1 Bleak ty as 8
TAL SIME, Sa si'g shied gsebiy ava'eh a 14
Fe MOR oe ices seers 16%
Pe, DEORE | 2 cp sage os eh Pes 1
Sy SOMEONES | iy LS ore ce chee ounces %
Pe MTOR iaiece nn seus ble %
Be ROO es cs wis aia ok tated 11
COSY ECE 2 ER Ce %
eG, SATAEL on os dude wate va'e boty 3
Bi EEO on spe aleecadsiet ny 1%
A a et eee 1
Tx Wi; EGOEBON. 5. ox p50 aed ass 18%
ee MOOI a gd back Vibe 2 Ld 2
Pin ME hein a tte Saja acute’ 1%
Fe EOE a u's 5 Wala o Had alaceis 56
BE ARO 5 el rocdin'b vie Say ia 6%
Cri ROO PCBON » icc cu t's ovine eu 1/3
Rey TIPE § ol dlc y 6 Dative tn 21%
i SGIOGE 2A aS danke oes 654
E,  WRGbS “She eee dd oeedan 3
PES G88 i eee seca es viene 1%
Re PEGE Ae dal cited ate ode at 1G
RM, SWavisbur¥ 0665.00 oi ess Vy
Ba! CMS 8 i Ue ce de ie 1
a WOO eM eS de a are 1%
ek: ee Ve
Eee NEE SO Ooh oe Eo ee dele 1
Ti WCRI L8G eee ek 1
WN ee ee ee ea, 34

 

College Rings

Before that Christmas
money disappears, may
we suggest a college or |/)
fraternity ring. Available
in gold or silver, with or
without stones. Ask to see
samples.

HENRY BIRKS AND
SONS LIMITED
Diamond Merchants
Halifax, N. S.

 
  

 

‘Dal VS.

House of David

 

 

 

DEBATE—
(Continued from page 1)

syllogisms. In this, perhaps, is
found the most outstanding differentiation between the platform and
the written page, considered as
spheres of discussion.

And it is a differentiation which
Canadian university debaters do not
seem as yet to have fully compre
hended, which may explain the Australians’ consistent success in up
holding the very difficult Negative
of the resolution: “Nationalism is
the enemy of civilization”. The decision of the judges, awarding the
palm to the visitors,—which decis
ion will be disputed by none,—was
almost certainly based on bright, attractive, clever presentation rather
than on argument.

Considering the Australian team
individually, Mr. Thonemann, the
leader for the Dalhousie debate, will
be conceded superiority over his colleague, at least in this instance. A
light, breezy versatility is, I believe, his forte, that of his companion being rather the realm of
cold reason, which fact naturally,
due to the topic of the discussion,
placed Mr. Robson at a comparative
disadvantage.

Cold reason, at least as displayed
in the debate, was arrayed on the
side of Dalhousie. “Both Mr. Finlay
and Mr: Petrie were, from a strictly
rationalist standpoint, triumphant
over their opponents. However, as
has been remarked, continuity or
strength ‘of argument is not the
only, nor even the most important,
factor in debating. And in regard
to style, Mr. Petrie was hampered
throughout by continual references
to his notes and a relative hesitation in delivery which detracted
from the effectiveness of his address.

Mr. Finlay, on the other hand,
made the fatal mistake of rarely
raising his voice above a conversational tone, an error which rendered
the greater part of his speech hearable only with the greatest strain
by those beyond the first few rows
of seats and his rebuttal practically
inaudible. It was an error which
one would think could have been
avoided by a debater with some
experience of the Gym’s acoustics.

FILM SOCIETY—

(Continued from page one)

ing of “Pearls of the Crown” in
November, but the film was received
in a poor condition and the breakage
was unavoidable. Moreover, the executive of the Society realizes that
the accoustics in the gymnasium are
far from perfect and furthermore,
that the projection equipment, although of R.C.A. Victor high fidelity
make, was not designed for use in a
large building.

Nevertheless, although the Society
has only made a very small beginning this year, the idea will grow
‘and the Society may eventually be
given a grant to purchase equipment
of its own. Until that day arrives,
‘in spite of the technical handicaps
facing the Film Society, it will endeavor to present the best pictures

obtainable, with all possible correc* tion of accoustical defects.
'.. The Society now has a membership

of two hundred, and several others
| have expressed their intention of
_ joining the Society this month. A

"good s start should be made this year |,

| ~go-that- the idea~may grow and expand into a very valuable contribution to the cultural side of a student’s life.

Tigers Meet Bearcats

The Dalhousie Tigers, finalists in
the Nova Scotia Hockey League last
year, open their home schedule on
Monday, at the Arena (Shirley
Street,) against the Truro Bearcats.

This year the Dal team is without doubt the best hockey team to
play under the gold and black in
the last half decade.

In addition to members of last

year’s squad, those out trying for}

the team include Bill Thomas, Norbert Grant, Bob Blois, Harry Smith,
John Dickey, Ian MacGregor, Jack
Kerr, Pat Patton, Eugene Dowell,
Art Mercer, and Oscar Sandos. Of
these, Smith, Dickey, Patton, and
MacGregor have played hockey for
Dal previous to last year. Of the
new prospects Thomas, Grant, and
Blois seem slated for berths before

the season has progressed very far.

MARITIMERS—

(Continued from page one)

Having just returned from a year
of study at Oxford and a summer
spent in countries at the heart of
the European conflict, Dr. Vlastos
was able to supply first hand information for the evening discussions
of the nature of the present social

and economic world and what action |.

students should take with regard:
to it.

Other discussion group leaders
were: Neil Morrison, graduate student at McGill who was co-chairman |
of last year’s National Conference,
Winifred Wygal of the New York
Y.W.C.A., Margaret Kinney, associate general secretary of the Canadian §.C.M., Edith Lerigo, New
England. S. C. M. secretary, and
Katherine Hockin, Maritime S.C.M.
secretary. Besides the group discussions there were numerous individual discussions which lasted far
into the night, and though they
didn’t often come to satisfactory
conclusions they usually managed
to keep from degenerating into
arguments.

Skating, skiing and tobogganing
in the afternoons served to keep our
minds fresh and alert.

Being a small conference—there
were 19 Canadian and 16 American
students present—everybody became
acquainted with everybody else and
came to appreciate to some extent
the viewpoint of those from across
the border. All who attended the
conference at least gained a broader
outlook, a clearer idea of the ends
towards which the Student Christian
Movement is working, and the encouragement which is brought by a
sense of community with other
students who are working towards
these same ends.

 

WE RESOLVE—

(Continued from page one)

Glee Club shows. Stay at home at
least one night a week. To attend
more classes.

Joan Blackwood:

More 2.15 leaves for the Hall girls.
Jack Woodbury:

See what I can do about keeping
Netherwood open until March.

Jack Noonan:

To laugh very heartily at Professor Jewitt’s reminiscences hereafter,
for reasons made obvious by the late
exams. To report all the bull in the
Bulletin. To make lots of friends at
the Relief Bureau before next summer (Department of Highways
Branch).

Gordon Tiavidlon' :

To talk up the Film Society as
much as possible. To pray more
that the same will get a grant. To

 

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

NEW GLASGOW DEFEATS DAL |

Last night New Glasgow defeated last period all resulted from com
Dal’s skating Tigers by a score of
7 goals to 1. The Halifax boys
played very well, but the wet, sloppy ice added to their difficulties.

The only goal of the first period
was secured without assistance by
MacGibbon of New Glasgow.

In the. second period Dickson,
MacDonald, and MacGibbon, assisted by Cox and C. Potts raised New
Glasgow’s score to four. Before the
period ended John Dickey, on an
assist from MacDonald, made Dal’s
lone tally.

New Glasgow’s three goals in the

bination plays.

Though defeated, the Tigers put
up an excellent game with Baine
Munro outstanding, and. there is
every promise that they will outscore Truro in Halifax on Monday
evening,

 

Elmer Campbell.

Dal line-up:

Goal: B. Munro; defense: MacGregor, MacDonald; forwards: DeWolfe, Buckley, Corston, Smith,

Dickey, Graham, Collins, Mullane.

 

Bearded Players
Coming to Dal

 

On next Thursday evening at 8.15
p.m. the 1988 edition of the Dal
housie Tigers basketball team take |

the lid off the varsity hoop season
at the Dal Gym. In the opening
game the Tigers tackle one of the
major basketball clubs of the continent. The famed, bearded, House
of David squad which is on an exhibition tour in eastern Canada,. has
been booked by the management.
This team is. without a doubt the

greatest team ever to visit Halifax,

and coach Steers will send a squad
of Dalhousians, which is felt to be,

the. most promising threat our ‘col
lege by, the sea has placed on the
court in some years, in there. to give.
the bearded giants a great battle.

These bewhiskered babies from below the border have the reputation
of being the most colorful squad
playing this game, which, has so
rapidly risen to popularity in the
last decade. Besides being great
players these boys. are wonderful
showmen. The trick shots, plays,
and general antics in the play, along
with .their singular appearance
makes the attendance gf every Dal
student a treat to himself or herself.

Due to the fact that this team

hails from Lakehurst, New Jersey,

it is not without considerable expense that this very exceptional card
has been arranged. Thus, there will
be the slight charge of ten cents per
head for students with their council
tickets. The public will pay the
price of 35 cents for admission.

This promises to be a big year
for Dal in basketball, as we will
have very good teams in senior,
intermediate, and _ inter-collegiate
competition. Let’s all get out and
take the lid off the season with the
best basketball that will be seen in
Halifax for some time to come.

Directory Changes

 

Students are requested to make
the following changes in their Students’ Directories:

Barratt, Ernest, Pine Hill.

Dunn, Stuart, 150 Spring Garden Rd.
Marshall, Herbert, H5532.

Murray, Graham, H5152.

Smith, Harry, B2842.

Turner, Alan, 216 North St A L8512
Little, Marion, L2251.

Smith, Kay, B9601.

Payne “Red”, B2614.

 

Some people strike oil and get
rich; but Jimmy Milner struck oil on
the floor of the Canadian National
Railway station, and got a bill for
drycleaning two suits at Cousin’s
(Commercial). Unfortunately, the
oil was enclosed in a bottle and a

attempt to prove to everyone that| suitcase, and Jimmy’s room smells
Vancouver is God’s gift to Canada. | like a Newfoundlanad fishing village.

‘Badminton
Tournament

So few students were using the
main floor of the gymnasium last
term that Red Payne is said to have
‘erected a rather boistercus intrud¢r
one afternoon with, “Hush, for
heaven’s sake, will you, or you'll
scare the other fellow away!”

 

As a professor it is indeed gratifying to find students’ so occupieid

and immersed in their studies that:

they cannot afford time off for a
game of badminton in the gymnasium. As the D. A. A. C. badminton
adviser on the other hand it-is dis‘ressing to find that the. tournament
lists posted in the gymnasium early
in December ‘have attracted so little
attention.

The entries for the - Women’s
Doubles Championship (Aluninae
Cup); the ‘Mixed Doubles Ghampionship (Alumni Cup),. and the: Men’s
Doubies Championship (Birks Cup)
have been peeoe until Saturday,
January 7.

Please show the donors of these
badminton trophies that you appreciate their’ interest in the ‘game ‘and
enter your names on the lists in the
gymnasium, Shirreff -Hall, King’s,
etc., etc.

C. H. MERCER.

CO-ED’S PRAYER

Respirates there a man
Around about

This university

Of sufficient
Restraint and coolness
To limit his demands—
Not just requests,

But demands—

And say, “Good time,
“Good-bye!”

Just holding hands—
Who has the gentility
To wait

Until at least a
Second date.

To reach a warm
Romantic state,

And give a girl

Some preparation
Before expecting
Osculation—

At least an hour in
Length and duration?
If such there be,

Go mark him well,
I'll date the guy

And make him tell

Me what the hell

He had for dinner
That makes him so sick.

—McGill Daily.

Her: “Wait. -here for me, Bill,
while I go powder my nose,”

Her: (Three dances later):
waiting long?”

Him:

“Been

“No, I’ve been looking all

over for you to give you your com
pact.”

| basketball.
The game .was ably refereed by |

 

 
 
 
   

Girls’ Sports

| Basketball

Perhaps the most important sport} ¢,a4

activity for us girls this term is
There will be three practices a week; one on Tuesday at
7.30 p.m., one on Wednesday at 4.30
p.m., and the other on Saturday
morning at 12 o’clock. Everybody,
especially those who. have played
basketball before, is urged to turn
out. Not only is basketball good
exercise but the basketball team is
the one girls’ team which represents
Dalhousie at other universities. The
best players cannot. be picked if
some people hide their light under
a bushel and won’t come out for
practises. Do come out — you will
never know how good.you are until
you’ve tried!

Gym

Gym classes will continue as usual.
The freshettes are urged to look on
the notice board in the locker-room
of the gym for their athletic timetable. The gym .classes. for: the
upper-classmen will be held at the
same times as last term. , Miss. Wray
is looking forward to saying “hello”
to you all.

Badminton
Badminton classes -have- been arranged for the Freshettes..who are
beginners. Other beginners are invited to: join these classes:—Again
see the gym notice board for times.
If you are not a beginner make a
‘New. Year’s resolution that you’re
going to improve your badminton

 

|

|

January 7, 1939

    
  

Hockey Game
on
Monday

Dal vs. Truro

    

 

es ae.

CAPITAL CLOSE-UP—

(Continued. from. page one)

ly see that this situation cannot
continue and some express the hope

the establishment of a minimum international price for wheat.

This would provide a stable price
and render the export farmer independent of the political uncertainties of public support and the price
fluctuations in the world market.

Failing this there is an opinion
in some informed circles here, that
the only alternative is a radical revision of Canadian agricultural policy in the West. They feel that the
wheat question cannot continue
much longer in the critical stage in
which it has existed for the past
eight years.

While government officials here
said they were unconcerned about
the recent sale of 20,000,000 bushels
of United States wheat to Britain,
some members are looking into the
transaction to determine if the loss
of the six-cent-a-bushel wheat preference had anything to do with the
matter,

It is believed that the U. S.
wheat was sold at a much lower
price than that offered by Canadian
exporters, but questions likely “will
be asked early in the session about
this deal and Agricultural Minister
Gardiner will be requested to inform the House why Canada did not
get the business.

ee *

With such grave issues of public
importance, Parliament will scarcely be’ able to prorogue before the

this term.. There have been some | King and Queen arrive May 20. Ad
tips for badminton players posted on
several. notice boards. Read them

and see if they don’t help you. Why for another stretch.

not. sign up for one of the tournaments ?

Fencing

Anyone interested
should report to Professor Korning.
At present fencing is being held at
8.30 on Tuesday evenings.

 

Dancing Class

Miss Wray has formed a dancing
class for freshettes and will be very
glad to form another for upperclassmen if anyone is interested.
Just go and see Miss Wray about it
at her office.

N.B.—There is a bulletin board in
the girls’ locker-room in the gym.
Watch it for ‘all sport notices.

 

Drunk: “Shay, doesh the: dean
live here?”
Feminine voice from _ upstairs:

“Yes, bring him right in the front
door, please.”.—The Gateway.

    

THOMAS WALLACE
SONS and DAUGHTERS
SIGHT SPECIALISTS

Eyes Tested — Glasses Made
“Tf You Want to See Well Sce Wallace’

Y. M.C, A. BLDG. HALIFAX

   
 
  
  
    

in fencing

| journment will be taken and the

Members will return late in June
The impression has been growing that a general election will be held next fall,
but the rumors are being discounted

in some quarters.

Robert Finn, Liberal Member,

who has represented Halifax in the
Commons for 25 years and is close
to the Cabinet, told this writer the
other day that he did not think
there would be a general election
until 1940.

 

Get a Pair of
Skates

While the Season Lasts

We have them at all prices

Wallace Bros.
Limited
“Specialists in Fitting”

415 BARRINGTON STREET

 

  

WHEN YOU NEED:
DRUGS

MACLEOD, BALCOM, LIMITED
DRUGGGISTS

Halifax, Sheet Harbour and Kentville, N. S.

MEDICINES

    
   

PRESCRIPTIONS

YOU GET BETTER oo AND VALUE

Kinley’s ite Stores

 

 

a solution might be’ found in |

|
)
)
