 

VOL. LXXI

 

 

Dal Spirits Frozen
At Student Forum

Dalhousie “spirit” reached a new low on Tuesday when a
quorum of 100 could not be obtained at the first Student Forum
of the year, duly called by the Council to consider amendments
to the constitution and other matters.

When the meeting was cal
Bud MacKenzie, sixty-three had

led to order by the chairman,
gathered in the Chem Theatre.

Twenty minutes later twenty-six more had been corralled, but
to get the necessary eleven appeared to be an impossibility.

Little Interest Shown

Among those present there was a
decided lack of interest, noted particularly when the report of Don

: Storey regarding the investigation of supplementary exams was
brought in. According to Don, who
had discussed the question with the
university office authorities, the
high price is set not a money-making procedure, but to discourage
failures and thus maintain a higher
standard.

Shirley Kirkpatrick and Walter |
Lawson questioned this. Said Shirley: “The standard of Dalhousie is
so high it doesn’t require a high
supplementary fee to maintain it,”
and the Engineering student’s comment was, “I don’t see how raising
prices keeps up the standard.” To
Shirley Kirkpatrick’s motion that
the matter be further investigated,
Doug MacKeen objected with “Are
we really vitally interested in the

. matter?”

ii Freda Cahan said, “If you don’t
get through the exams, then pay the
fee.” Bernard Graham commented,
“The danger of a deficit at Dalhousie is increasing. Every opportunity
must be seized to improve the financial situation,’ and the motion was
ousted.

Preliminary Vote Taken

Tt the suggestion of Irene Pentz,
Vice-President of the Arts and Science Society, a preliminary vote
was taken to determine the opinion
of the meeting concerning the following changes in the constitution
to Article 6, Section 6:

Clause (a) One member shall be
elected by the voters of the Arts
and Science Society at the Council
General Election from two nominees
from the Freshman Class who shall
represent that class in its Sophomore year.

Clause (b) The remaining four
Council members: shall be elected
from two groups, each group consisting of at least three and not

_ more than four nominees selected
by the Arts and Science Society, one
group to consist of girls and one to
consist of boys. These shall be voted
on in separate groups at the Council General Elections. Two representatives are to be elected from
each group.

Opinions Presented.

This gave the promoters of the
Arts and Science Society an opportunity to present their side of the
question. According to Doug MacKeen, as the constitution now stands
the whole Arts and Science Faculty
has to vote for class representatives
whom they don’t know. “So that in
future there will be no blind shooting in the dark, I heartily endorse
the present change.”

“If powers such as these are
granted it will help weld the Arts
and Science Society together,” was
Bud MacKenzie’s comment.

On the preliminary vote seventysix approved of the changes, the-remaining thirteen declining to vote.
There followed a harangue of some

_ All Out to

length on the interpretation of the
Students’ Council Constitution, settled only after legal advice from
Forrest was sought.

Review of Progress.

Now, nearly two months since the
Arts and Science constitution has
been drafted, progress towards attaining the main objective of the
executive has been negligible. As
pointed out in last week’s Gazette,
only one class—Class ’40—has voted
its funs to the Society. Class of ’41
has voted $25.00, the Freshman
Class has not come to a decision,
and the Seniors will have their first
meeting of the year next week.

The next step of the Arts and
Science Society executive has not
been announced. Tuesday’s fiasco
was obviously due to the fact that
Forrest gave almost no support in
attendance, and Studley interest was
lukewarm. The only evident interest among the general student body

is the repeated question, ‘“When’s
the Arts and Science Society
dance ?”

Strong Opinion
Against Using
W urlitzer

The Glee Club activities of the
post-Christmas season will commence next Wednesday, when the
Glee Club will present two Connolley Shield plays. As usual, there
will be dancing immediately following the presentation. Unless present plans are suddenly changed, the
music for the dancing will be provided by the Wurlitzer.

Of late, much comment has been
voiced on the campus as to the desirability of the Wurlitzer for dancing after Glee Club shows. Accordingly, the Gazette determined to establish the average student opinion
concerning this point. Following
the maxim that numbers express
facts more vividly than any other
method, this paper has conducted a
poll among students. The following
questions were asked: “Are yon in
favor of the Wurlitzer being used
for dancing at Glee Club shows? If
not, would you be willing to pay a
small admission fee in order to defray the costs of hiring an orchestra?” These questions were asked
277 students. Of these, 261 were
NOT in favor of the Wurlitzer, and
the remaining 16 were in favor. Of
the 261 not in favor of using the
Wurlitzer, 253 were agreeable to
the proposal of paying a small admission fee. These numbers seem
staggering at first glance, but they
are the actual figures of the poll
conducted, and as such, express the
average opinion of the student body,
as represented by this cross section.
In conjunction with this poll, the
Gazette reporter has interviewed a

 

 
 
 

 

see Gy F

 

us 
wy.

Sea er ay
Er ea TS via Ae a
: ee igh
Ashe ee

“THE COLLEGE qf


Sere

  
 

 
  

HALIFAX, N. S., JANUARY 20, 1939

Shaw and Coward Contend | Twelfth Night

Play Wednesday

Adine Oland (above) who will take
the part of Piggy in “Hands Across
the Sea” at the Glee Club Show on
Wednesday.

Freda Cahan (below) who plays Mrs.
Lunn in Shaw’s “Overruled”.

few students on the same questions
as those used in the poll. Here are
their opinions:

BILL HARVEY:

“No, I don’t want the Wurlitzer
at Glee Club shows! The music
doesn’t carry, but echoes throughout the Gym. Why can’t everyone
on the campus pay, say 14 or 15
cents admission towards the cost of
an orchestra at each Glee Club
show. One can’t enjoy dancing to
‘canned music’; an orchestra, no
matter how poor it may be, is an in
centive to enjoyment. Lastly, the
Students’ Council is supposed to
represent student opinion on _ the

campus, and the purchase of the
Wurlitzer was certainly not an expression of student opinion, as it is
quite obvious*that the students do
not like the Wurlitzer.”

TICK FENNEL:

“The Wurlitzer is all right in the
store, but it’s no good for Glee Club
shows. We should have an orchestra. The dance after the show is the
thing that draws the crowd.”
BUTCH LAWSON:

“The Wurlitzer is good enough
for the store, but it costs too much
to play. Roy Atwood should sell
slugs, 3 for 5 cents. We might be
potential millionaires, but we aren’t
potential.”

JOAN BLACKWOOD:

“The Wurlitzer shouldn’t be used
at Glee Club shows. It has to be
turned up very loud to be heard at
the back of the Gymn, and when
this is so you can’t go within twenty feet of it.”

 

 

| the Sea” concerns the doings of one
| Piggy (Adine Oland), who is scat
 

In One-Act Competition

“OVERRULED” AND “HANDS ACROSS THE SEA”
TO BE PRESENTED WEDNESDAY NIGHT
Confusion will reign in the Gymnasium Wednesday night
as Shaw and Coward scramble situations to the delight of the

many.

Plays by the two authors will have their Halifax pre
mieres, as Newman Club and Players’ Guild each presents a

one-acter in competition for the Connolley Shield.
Club will present “Hands Across the Sea’ by Noel Coward, and |

Newman

Players’ Guild will do “Overruled” by George Bernard Shaw.

Dal Debut

Many of Wednesday night’s players appear for the first time before
a Dalhousie audience. Among these
are Adine Oland, Sally Smith, Clare
Penny and Bob Merchant, all of
Newman Club and at the University
for their first year.

“Hands Across the Sea”

Newman Club’s “Hands Across

terbrained, and who mistakes some
of her visitors for two other people.
Such is the confusion of the household over which she presides that
the visit of the two unfortunates is
over before she realizes her mistake. |
The two visitors are Mr. and Mrs.
Wadhurst, played by Clare Penny
and Frank Fennel. Other members
of the cast adding to the amusing
atmosphere are Sally Smith, Bob
Merchant, Carly Sullivan,

 

Prown

|Crosby, Frank Corcoran and Jack

Noonan. Director of “Hands Across
the Sea” is Jack Lynch, a member
of the St. Genesius Dramatic Socity.

“Overruled”

Shaw’s “Overruled” is the offering of the Players’ Guild, last year’s
winners. Shaw catches up four ordinary people in an extraordinary
matrimonial mix-up, where each
falls in love with the mate of the
other. In love with Mrs. Juno

 

(Margaret MacAskill) is Mr. Lunn
(Bud MacDougall), and in love with
Mrs. Lunn (Freda Cahan) is Mr.
Juno (Walter Murphy). How a solution to their problem is reached
is the theme of the play, replete
a ee AO

R. B. Bennett To Sail
From Halifax

Canada’s former Prime Minister
and one of Dalhousie’s Greatest
Benefactors, R. B. Bennett will spend
some time in Halifax next week and.
as plans are now tentatively suggested Dalhousie students will give
him a reception next Friday evening
prior to his sailing for England,
where he recently purchased an
estate.

The Prime Minister’s last visit was
in the fall of 1987 when at a large
dinner at the Nova Scotian the
President of the Student’s Council,
Tag Day, presented him with a gold
D. in recognition of his generosity
and interest in‘his Alma Mater.

While a student at Dalhousie in
the Law School in the 1890’s, R. B.
Bennett was active in all college
affairs. A keen debater, he was also
a member of the Gazette staff and
his picture adorns the walls of the
Editorial rooms as Managing Editor.
Later when he left for the west to
practice law, he continued his interest and through his’ efforts secured
many endowments for Dalhousie.
One of his most valuable gifts was
the complete: set of Everyman’s
Library which he has placed in
Shirreff Hall,

 

 

 

For Many

with Shavian witticism and dénouement. Dr. Claude Taylor, Assistant
Pathology Professor at the Med
School, and last year’s director, will
direct the Guild show.
Connolley Shield

One-acters compete every year
for the Connelley Shield. Other societies who are expected to compete
this year are Delta Gamma, Pine
Hill, Pi Beta Phi Fraternity, Educa
tion Class, English 9, Freshman

Class, Sigma Chi, Dental Society.

Officials of these societies are asked
to contact the Glee Club Executive
immediately, since February 15 is

the date set for the next night of.

Connolley Shield plays. Adjudicator
will be professor C. L. Bennet, who

has held this position ever since the

competition has begun.

Girls’ Debating

Team Chosen

 

Rowena Benson of Bridgetown,

?

Caroline Young of Halifax, and Lily
Hirsch of Sydney were chosen as
members of the Dalhousie Girls De
bating team to debate Acadia Uni-|

versity in the annual intercollegiate
debate.

They were chosen by judges, John
Dickie, president of Sodales and Jim
Milner, active member of the Effective Speaking Club after giving trial
Exhibitions of debating at Shirreff
Hall last evening.

Most important decision reached
at the Delta Gamma meeting was the
motion that a Delta Gamma Effective Speaking Club be formed for
the purpose of teaching its members
to speak extemporaneously. The
meetings, which will be held every
two weeks, will be under the direction of a suitable teacher, who will
be procured by the Debating Chairman, Maureen Allen.

Lily Hirsch and Edna Schwartz,
championing the cause that modern
literature shows a decline of public
morals were declared to be the
winners as against Mary Doull,
Jacquie Cahan and Dorothy MacKenzie.

In the second debate of the evening, “Resolved that all university
courses should be completely elective”, Marion Gaynor, Rowena Benson and Mardi Prowse convinced the
judges that they Should, winning
over, Caroline Young, Rita Aronoff
and Irene Mader.

Walkout Fizzles

Edmonton, Alta. — A proposed
walkout of resident students from
Athabaska dining hall, University of
Alberta, failed to materialize. It
was rumoured that the students
would refuse to sit down to the
evening meal, in protest to alleged
poor food served in the residence
dining room, after 30 men had left
the hall at noon. The head of the
House Committee settled the whole
affair quietly with the dietitian.

 

Hockey Game Monday -- Dalhousie vs. New Glasgow

 

 

No. 18

Try-Out Sunday

Casting for Shakespeare’s “Twelfth

Night” will begin Sunday afternoon
at 2.30 in the Munro Room, Forrest
| Building, under the supervision of
'C. L. Bennet. The Executive of the
Glee Club stated last night that a
| large turn-out is desired, since there
| are speaking parts for at least
‘twenty people.
None of the parts have been cast
_yet, since the Executive has thought
‘it fairer to let each person interested try out for those parts which he
_thinks best suited to himself, and
to let the final decision rest with
Mr. Bennet.

‘Rev. Gardiner’s Credo

| On Thursday morning in Room 2
| the S.C.M. began a series of five
|lectures on Religious belief. Mr.
| Ledrew Gardiner of St. James Angliean Church, Armdale, the speaker
for this week, opened by stating that
'he was going to speak of his own
| personal beliefs, and not those of
| the church to which he belonged.

The statement of his beliefs was
/very simple and sincere. He believed that God is “self-existent,

(Continued on page 3)

 

 

 

 

 

 

NOTICES

| Class 39 meeting Tuesday, January 24th, at 12.00 n. in Room 38, Arts
Building.

 

Film Society will present “Dr.

Knock” tonight at 8.00 p.m.

 

Boxing workout at 2.30 p.m.

 

Girls’ Basketball practice at 12.00.

 

Glee Club showing in Gymnasium,
Wednesday, Jan. 25, 8.15 pm. Ne
students will be admitted after the
beginning of a play. Late-comers
will have to wait until the second
play.

Students’ Council will meet Sunday afternoon at 2.30 in the Men’s
Common Room, Arts Building.

 

Freshman Debating trials for Bennet Shield team in Room 8, Arts
Building, Saturday afternoon at
2.30. Subject: “Resolved that capital punishment should be abolished.”
Candidates may choose either affirmative or negative side, and: will
talk three minutes.

 

 

: SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA

All who are. interested in the
symphony orchestra, and all who are
|now members, are asked to meet
with Johnny Morrison in the gym at
7.30 p.m. on Monday, Jan. 23.

 

 

NEWFOUNDLAND CLUB
There will be a meeting of the
Newfoundland Club, Sunday at 2.30
p.m. in the Arts Building.

DEBATE TRIALS
On Thursday, Jan. 26, at noon,
trials will be held in Room 4 of the
Arts Building, for the debate against t
Mt. A. Subject: “Resolved that this
house believes in ghosts.” Speakers
may support either side.

 

GYM COMMITTEE
The Dalhousie Student Gym Committee will meet on Saturday
afternoon to continue discussion of
important matters of business begun
at a two-hour session held last
evening.

 
      
 

“ay we ’

 

   

assumed that they represent the opinion of

—#

 

The views expressed in any column of T erie are those of the author; it cannot be

dent body. on

ae sy
on

GAZETTE STAFF :
Editor: BERNARD GRAHAM - - - - -_ B-5033
Satan Editor: WALTER MURPHY Scrat te Lae:
Asst. News Editor: BARBARA MURRAY - -_ H-5152
Sports Editor: DOUGLAS LYALL - - - -  B-2607
Business Manager: SIDNEY A. GILLIES - - rie

Exchange Editor: JOAN BLACKWOOD 
HOLLYWOOD AND WHAT IT REPRESENTS
(Contributed)

N e have all dutifully answered our “Movie Quiz’
and died es picture I liked best”, it is interesting to look
at the whole question of the motion picture and find what : 2
that makes us drop our work and spend the greater par of
two nights of the week in conference with Sam Goldwyn an

Company.

“What really prompted
paragraph from an article by
issue of “Stage”. He says:

‘Hollywood is in trouble at the box office. And the reason why Hollywood is in trouble with the box office is precisely
that its pictures lack the fourth dimension of life. And the
reason its pictures lack the fourth dimension of life is precisely that they do not know their own time, do not present
their own time, do not belong to their own time and therefore,
quite naturally, have lost the interest of their own time.

All of which, we quite agree, is indeed a mouthful, but a
mouthful to be taken seriously, for Mr. MacLeish is a poet of
considerable standing who has made some interesting ventures
into drama, particularly that of radio drama. In fact he may
be taken as an authority on his subject. What he says, in
essence, is that motion pictures, instead of dealing with reality,
are burrowing deeper and deeper into an abyss of trite and
nonsensical banality. Drama is, or should be, primarily, interested in mirroring life. The legitimate theatre in large
part is doing that. The movies are not.

The reasons for this are not particularly obvious. They
are various, but the chief ones may be listed in order of their
importance as follows: (1) The general public is not intelligent
enough to view anything worth while. (2) The producers of
Hollywood are not intelligent enough to produce anything
worth while, and (3) Any decent, self-supporting, conscientious
theatre-man will avoid Hollywood as much as possible. The
third may be considered as having its foundation in two.

That the general public is not intelligent enough to view
anything which in the least bit varies from the “boy meets
girl theory” has been apparent for many generations. That it
is true of ours is not hard to believe. For example, a recent
Gallup poll of the United States showed that next to the Bible
most of our American cousins found “Gone With the Wind”’
the most interesting book they had ever read. That seems
hard to believe, but figures in most cases do not lie.

A more noteworthy indication of the public’s ignorance is
the annual listing of the ten biggest box office figures of the
movies. Shirley Temple invariably leads, with Clark Gable
and Robert Taylor not far behind. Although we have nothing
personal against the three in question, it strikes us that as
examples of histrionic ability they run close seconds to a baby
Panda.

The most distressing thing about the movie public is that
they are not interested in the drama. That seems peculiar
when you realize how frequent their attendance is at the
cinema house. They are interested solely in “names’’, and
what is worse they have no talent in deciding the merits of
good actors or actresses. That “great epic star’, Tyrone
Power—the sweetheart of the backstairs—will draw a full
house even in such evanescent stinkers as “Suez”.

Again, to site an interesting example, we already have
noticed advertisements for Robert Sherwood’s “Idiot’s Delight’, starring Clark Gable with Burgess Meredith. That was
how the M.G.M. lot arranged that billing, “starring Gable’ and
“with Meredith”. The fact that Gable doesn‘t know how to
act, never did, and never will, and also that Meredith has been
perennially listed as America’s most important young actor,
is of no consequence to the “art-seeking’’ producers. Gable
can draw the money and Meredith is just a young fellow who

this epistle was the following
Archibald MacLeish in a current

- happens to play the lead in three Maxwell Anderson plays in

New York in as many years.

The cry of most people that the reason they don’t go to
“good” movies because they want to laugh is a perfect display
of unintelligence. These poor chaps say they have enough
worries without worrying in a theatre, but the truth of the
matter is that their idea of emotion is two young lovers’
hearts beating in three-quarter time or some such thing, and
the result is they don’t understand the expression of any other
emotion.

One of them told us he didn’t like ‘Winterset’? because
“it was all about gangsters”, but neglected to say, because he
didn’t understand, that behind the gangsters was the picture
of aborted justice. For exactly the same reason “The Informer” was a failure at the box office. People didn’t understand it and it wasn’t pretty because boy didn’t get girl.

On the ignorance of the movie producers there has been
a tremendous amount written. It pains us to realize that in
the hands of these gold-clutching impresarios rests almost entirely the cultural development of this generation. But it is
true. The college student is removed from the theatre, he has
interesting in painting, occasionally reads a popular fictional
work, but ah! the movies. He has never heard of the Irish
drama, let alone the Abbey Theatre, but he can name in as
many seconds the last five Sam Goldwyn productions.

A glance at the movies running in Halifax now will illustrate the point. Sam’s production of “Dead End” has almost
completely destroyed the original spirit of the work. “Brother
Rat’, a picture of the amorous escapades of a group of military
students, shows that it is much more fun to learn to march
than to study medicine; and “Nothing Sacred”, with that beautifully tonsilled wench, Carole Lombard, shows that New York
will take a dying woman to its heart.

i, 5 Sab a ae va sa li igi

 

EE —e_—V—

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Obiter

These days when we are all
national scholarship conscious, we
are getting a first class opportunity
to see the mysteries of democracy
revealed. As I have been told so
frequently, we live in a democratic
country and so it is that scholarships
are necessary. You may not have
thought of it before, but education
is necessary too. I mean the opportunity for education. You don’t
get any to speak of in our high
schools, at least you didn’t five years
ago. I am willing to bet quite a
substantial sum that less than half
of my contemporaries who graduated
with me had ever read Gray’s Elegy.
Why? Because we didn’t “do” Book
the Third of Palgrave. Some of us,
of course, have been fortunate
enough to escape from that vicious
syStem as we wallow in the mellowing influence of a university. Therefore the need of scholarships for
those who can’t get here otherwise.

But perhaps I am unfair to our
high schools. A friend of mine when
applying to a school last summer
was told that the salary was (I'll
write it out, so as to lessen the
shock) one hundred and _ seventy
dollars. Per year, not per month.
How can you expect anyone to teach
on that salary? Let alone be honest.
But after passing through that
stage, some of the hardier souls
have just enough intelligence left
to get them into college, where lies
hope for a pardon and an opportun
 

 

ity to start on a clean sheet, mentally |

speaking.

One of the biggest dangers we
have to face in getting this “Scholarship Bill” made law is that both of
the better known opposition parties
are in complete harmony with the
idea. The C.C.F.’s have had it in
mind for over ten years I suppose.
Of course they haven’t done much
about it yet, but you can’t blame
them. Then that other opposition
party, the dear old Conservatives,
have likewise admitted, in an unguarded moment, quite a measure of
approval. Our only hope is that the
Government, in its infinite wisdom,
will rise above the call of the wild
and do this little act of kindness.
(Author’s Note: If I have said anything against the little red school
houses where you were “educated”
I apologize, they are all this and
heaven too.)

 

 

Little Prof, What Now?

All this talk about higher education brings to mind those fascinating
radio programs where the layman
allows himself to be made a fool of |
by some college professor. Lately,
however, the tables have been turned
and now we find the layman making
a fool of his professors. I suspect
that college graduates ask the ques- |
tions we hear put to the poor professors (and sports writers and
columnists.) I have a question I
thought up myself which I should
like to try on “Information Please”,
but no one thinks it is very good.

 

| bigamy

LETTER

A CHALLENGE
Editor, Dalhousie Gazette:
I wish to address a few words to
the student body.

Students of Dalhousie, whence
has come this destable spirit of selfcomplacency, this passive attitude
towards your responsibilities? Apparently you have conveniently discarded any concern in student activities. Can you not see your folly
in ignoring something which is definitely in your own interests, even
before it has gained a foothold?
You must know to what I am referring—the Arts and Science Society,
which, whether you favor it or not,
is at least worthy of your attention.
In your own unconcern you threaten
to destroy something which would
have a vital relation to the student
body of this university.

What happens when you do turn
up at meeting? You quibble over
trivialities and seldom arrive at any
definite conclusion. You must be
led around by the hand, and treated
with kid gloves. You harp on petty
finances, you insult your University, which, incidentally, has infinitely greater financial worries,
and yet you show no gesture of cooperation or even of appreciation.

You place all problems in the
hands of committees, never facing
any yourselves; and then take the
credit for the success of these committees—but never the blame.

Would that you, the students,
could claim that credit! Would that
you could take pride in your elections, in your committees. Would
that you could recognize good men
when the appear! For these men,
elected leaders, might be blessed
with the true support of the students and thus have the burden of
their positions slightly alleviated.

Can you realize the influence
which your attitude has on the
Freshman Class which receives its
initiation at your hands?

Now it is about time to take some
decisive action. Either stand together behind the Arts and Science
Society or show that you are definitely against it. In doing this you
will at least display a little interest,
and interest is-all that is needed
to foster unity of action. You ¢annot remain in this condition of a
passive acceptance of your responsibilities forever.

GORDON KINLEY.

 

Idealist—‘I’m going to marry an
engineer and a gentleman.”

Realist—“You can’t do that: it’s
"The Gateway.
SS
late. Are you ready? By describing what character did Shakespeare
describe a young lawyer? The answer does not come from The Merchant of Venice. “Yond Cassius .. .”
The same passage a few lines down
is more or less flattering, but if you
selected that one you don’t know
young lawyers. (Forgive me if I

do a little advertising for the pro- |

fession now and then, you know we

January 20, 1939

 

“So many candles are embarrassing.”
“You wouldn't mind if they were Sweet Caps.”

SWEET CAPORAL CIGARETTES

“The purest form in which tobacco can be smoked.”

  

THOMAS WALLACE
SONS and DAUGHTERS
SIGHT SPECIALISTS

Eyes Tested — Glasses Made
“If You Want to See Well Sce Wallace”

Y.M.C. A. BLDG. HALIFAX

 

| HE place where you

should feel at home,
because you are truly
welcome to take your

time, chat and rest.
Try us out.

BLAKELEY’S

43 SPRING GARDEN ROAD
C. P. BLAKELEY, Prop.

 

 

 
  

 

 

 

 

 

Dance Favors

Seek for the unusual
as usual—at Birks.
You will find it at a

satisfactory price too.

HENRY BIRKS AND
SONS LIMITED

Diamond Merchants
Halifax, N. S.

 

 

HOME
TEAM

BY
DRINKING
OLD

TIME
COFFEE

Old Time Coffee

Co., Limited
Coffee Importers
Roasters and Grinders
We Deliver
25-27 DUKE ST. Tel. B-6947

SUPPORT
THE

 

 

 

EATON’S

 

 

Get a Pair of
Skates

While the Season Lasts

We have them at all prices

Wallace Bros.
Limited

“Specialists in Fitting”

415 BARRINGTON STREET

 

    

In fact no one thinks it is good. In
fact no one thinks .. . but I have
gone far enough. I'll try it on you,
you can’t complain until it is too!

are tied down in that respect. It

could be a lot worse, but then ye

editor would charge me by the inch.)
J.B. M.

What drama is inherent in those three is completely beyond us. “Dead End” was drama; when on the stage it was
a bitter appeal for better housing, but Sam was too much interested in boy getting girl to bother about any social theme.
“Nothing Sacred” was interesting in that the screen play was
written by Ben Hecht, who is fundamentally a brilliant chap,
but who sold his soul to Goldwyn. When he left Broadway to
go to Hollywood he said in “Variety”: “I’ve always had the
notion that the theatre could hit harder than the screen... .
After an hour and a half look at Mr. Goldwyn’s “Dead End”
I entered his office with head hung and ready to join the true
faith.” On the same page is the announcement that he signed
a contract at $260,000 a year. Hecht’s decadence has been
noticeable ever since. “Nothing Sacred” is a rehash of what
he and Charles MacArthur have been doing for years. It contains nothing new; it is funny at times, but mostly suffers
from stiffness.

“Brother Rat’ wasn’t interesting.

When producers bother with such things they needn’t
expect critical plaudits, which at times they do seek. When
they can attract drama into their studios they may produce
something great. They came very close to it in “The Informer”.

It will be doubtful if we will see that day for Hollywood
is not introspective. It is not capable of self-criticism. Its pictures are collossal now, and how can they be improved? When
Carl Laemmle, Adolf Zukor, Sam Goldwyn and their ilk are
through it might»be possible to see great drama filmed. But
not now. : m1

Announces the

Lowest Price in Years
on Made-to-Measure
One Trouser Suits

$2250

(extra trousers 4.00 pair)

   
 
 

 

       

@ With the same quality standards of fabric, style, fit <
cratane te that have won for EATON WA Br
JLOTHES the reputation of Canada’s Greatest Made.to.
Mcusure’ Gate Via ada’s Greatest Made-to
    
        
    
       
 

it . . . - now

   

with a ;
spring styles. . group of approved new

    

EATON’S—Main Floor.

“T.EATON. CO

LIMITED

   

   
  
 

 
Ma Pee

  
  
  
 
 
   
   
  
  
 
   
  
  
 
   
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
  
   
 
   
  
   
  
  
  
   
  
   
   
   
  
 
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
  
  
   
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
  
  
 
   
  
 
  
  
 
 
   
  
   
  

o. Oh, Hi there! How you’ve
‘we? Oh, in the usual frenzied rush. Let me see, must be all
' two aay since I saw you last.
What e I been doing? Well,
arse, there was the Boiler
s last Friday. You should

y there? Not so many as last
but then that means there’s all
more room to dance. And the
ic was perfect. And, my dear,
had a floor show too. The little
that did the Mae West Act to
cet-a-Tasket’ was too cute for
is. Think I’ll have to try some
that fanny fluttering in Miss
ay’s next gym class. You don’t
« she would appreciate it? Well,
you never can tell, anything goes
when one’s figure’s concerned.
What did you say? Oh, who was
4 here? Now, let me see. Oh, yes!
One Fraternity had a big table and
f 800 did King’s and the rest were
_ just small groups. The Meds and
BS wawyers were conspicuous by their
; _ absence. Guess it was pressure of
studies since the law results came
¥ out. last week. It’s strange though,
we've been back less than two weeks
_ and everyone is piling on the work.
Guess the professors made some
, | New Year’s resolutions as well!
‘Did you know there’s a new
system of going to a dance now?
- That's to go to a Formal stag, and
i‘ in tails too. It’s bad enough to ask
the girls at the last minute—of
_ course, no true gentleman ever does
- that. Oh, no, no, no... but this is
_ going a bit too far. Who? Oh,
_ some “boid!” He may have had an
_ excuse though since the one and only
"has left town.
Congratulate me; I actually manec to get to class on time on
_ Saturday morning before Dixie locka ed the door. (Editor’s note: Dr.
_ Pelluet did not lock the door last
eas turday) I went down to the store
_ afterwards to recuperate over a cup
3 “coffee and got talking about the
as of Twelfth Night. Don’t you
think Bill Stevens would make a
zood Sir Toby and Prof. Mercer a
per fect. Malvolio and of course Red

‘ .

 

_ The Dalhousie Gazette,
_ My Dear Mr. Editor,
i We feel that some attention and
space should be given by your
illustrious paper to the Cash and
Carry organization which has just
t B, antl emerged on the Campus.
ue The day of the Rubber Pilferer
seems to be over. Now the system
Shot petty-thievery going on in our
: locker rooms has reached its lowest
form. The purse is distained, but
al available money is snitched from
Bei the lowly nickel to the all-powerful
~ five smacker-piece. Since the Co-eds
; have been the principal victims, we
is) should like to point out that his re gretable state of affairs seriously
_ endangers any possibility of a Sadie
Beewkins Week. We hope the Dominant Sex will see their path clear to
- remedy their plight.

Indignant Tax-payer.

| Editor, The Gazette,
Dear Sir: |
Although it is customary to write
in this column destructive criticism
of persons and things may I be
“perm tted to express on behalf of a
» number of ‘students, I am sure,
4 eciation of last week’s issue’ of | m
1 Gazette.
ey _ Gon pesy mystery, ' pathos, love,
hate satire—all the things in fact
nh make life entertaining—were

vidence on every page. It would

ting the formula and the neces
ae I hope we may

equally ' delicious eeneeetars

future.

le itis ho yStiiene of mire it

would | “see mthat the reception of
ast week’s paper justifies the criti
‘By ei

al be the Jester. They must have |

 

 

  

chosen this play since we’ve got a

set of doubles on the campus this

Did you know that Freda is going
to be a siren in the Players Guild
one-acter? And Bud’s going to get
a perm. so he can put more soul
into his part. Walter has doubled
his diet since he says that like a
true artist he has to grow into his
role. Can you believe it they’ve
actually got some new records for
the Wurtlizer at long last. I don’t
wonder you’re surprised.

What did I do Saturday night?
Naturally I went to the Open House
at Shirreff Hall after the’ show.
There were quite a few there and I
wish you could have seen the
trucking. Astaire and Rogers have
nothing on the jitterbugs at Dal. I
still think Inez and Walter should
try one of those Marathon Endurance Tests.

Then Sunday there was a tea in
the afternoon. You know boys are
much worse talkers than girls.
Several of the Dominant (?) Sex
got together and insisted that girls
go to college to get married, said
they agreed with the Australians,
but I note that none of them have the
courage to publish their convictions.
As Charlie McCarthy suggested:

Roses are red, violets are blue

The Australians, pu, pu, pu!

A girl never has a brain. Oh no.
I wonder then why so many more
Freshettes go through their exams
than Freshmen. Surely they couldn’t
have spared a few days from manchasing to study!

Say something? What’s the use
they never will listen to logic on
that point so its just a waste of
breath. Anyway, my dear, you must
remember they do pay the bills.
Not that I’m being cynical.

By the way do you know what
the Poles are doing in Russia? No’.
Why, holding up the telegraph wires
of course. You can laugh now since
it’s English humour. My heavens,
look at the time. I have to be in
class in ten minutes. Sorry, I
haven’t had time to tell you anything. Call me tonight and I’ll finish
and you must tell me what you’ve
been doing too. G’bye.

@ FILTER @

—

The Boilermakers’ Ball is over for
another year and everyone seems to
have been there except the Engineers and the Shirreff Hall girls.

 

Of course there are exceptions to

every rule. Pride cometh before a
fall, George. That’s right, isn’t it
Joan?

 

And what of Reynolds, the exengineer who now aims at big business, and the Little Salesman who
was there helping a friend out (and
did Babe ever need help!), and who
was Blair two-timing ?

 

Spending the early hours of the
morning in committee rooms won’t
help Butch avoid paying “supp” fees.

 

The new off-shoulder note in evening dresses made us wonder if the
“Lady in Pink” really had something
there.

 

Jerry’s orchestra hit a new high
—but then so did Corky.

 

It seems that Bill Harvey expected
the crowd to turn up at Norman’s
after the dance—too bad, my little

man, too bad.

 

Our motorcycle expert is certainly
taking Phyl for a spin.

 

What first-year Law student saw
a fifty-dollar dream slowly fade
away before his eyes last week?

 

cism of earlier . writers in this
column to the. effect that foreign
affairs and a college newspaper are
not particularly: good mixers. Let’s
have more nonsense, Mr. Editor—
ae ~ cee: BGR .

ams

a. s

     

—* wtb se

 

Pine Hill Billets

We are always glad to make
corrections when news has been distorted. It is, therefore, with an
attitude of apology, though not
through intimidation, that we make
the following: In Ron Ritchie’s case
(see last weeks’ pillar of the Hillers)
it is not Kentville, but Montreal.

And so we Conway our apologies.
2 '¥

 

 

;

7 E : 4 ~~
aie “i ‘seal! 24
GAZPTTE Pas

 

ee OG a A EE OR AN ETOCS me OG ee ee

Werse
CALM AFTER STORM. 1919-1939

Terror and madness gripped this war-torn world,
And stalked with iron tread across its face—
Once more long lines of marching men uncurled
Threatening Dictatorial Embrace.

Pogroms, armaments and grasping Powers
Held mankind in helpless subservience.

Even now humanity count the hours

That briefly shield them from war’s imminence.
Crises after crises crush hope and trust,
Leaving hatred and fear in every brain—

Men rise to awful power from the dust

Spurred on by blood and death to greater gain.
This is the peace that binds all men as one;

This is the hell through which God’s will is ‘done.

Book of Bunk

CHAPTER III

1. And so it has come to pass
that once again the Myghty Hande
of Kynge Karl fell heavily on a
Stude. This time the Unfortunate
came from the Princedom of Lhaw
A tithe of Twelve Sheckles is levied
on this Lerned Man, a stude of the
Seconde Yhere, for appearing in the
Ancient Halls Six Dhays after Prince

As we write we hear Eric Coffin| vince and his Dhukes began their

seuffling hurriedly to the telephone
booth to call up his “brother”, which
gag is as ragged as last year’s underwear. We wonder if his brother

is a blonde—named Marion.
* BS *

What kind of a noise annoys an
oyster? Maybe it would object to
being referred to as an “ice-ter”
and maybe it would also object to
ending its days over a Pine Hill
toaster. Since returning from his
vacation with Lizzie, George Gillis
has made oyster stews and bakes as
common as sleep-inners on Sunday
morning. Bob Wright stubbornly
refuses to commit an oyster to the
fire until he has made examination
for pulse-beat and reflexes to make
sure the oyster can take it. To
everyone except the oyster-gulpers,
including Park Matheson who hopes
someday to hang a pearl around the
neck of the girl he calls “Fluff”, the
stews and bakes have become about

as popular as a gas attack.
* * ok

We’re not the only ones who like
fudge. But while we’re forced to
buy it already made, Wally Sellars
can experience the pleasure of helping to manufacture it, and we think,
to mix it. Can it be that the customary Saturday evening clothes are
to be forsaken for the apron? For
all we know it may be a Daley

occurrence,
% * *%

Jack Sinclair’s one-hour attempt
to win a friend and influence the
weaker sex by phone was an example to many Hillers of the
ineffectiveness of the telephone as a
medium for salesmanship. Try a
letter Jack, or see her in person.

* * aS

It was a disappointing week-end
for Morse Nickerson. Along with
other Dalhousians he went last
Saturday night to make merry with
a Mademoiselle and musick on
Argyle Street. But one of these
other Dalhousians — a Med. too—
went without his: she . . . decided on
Morse’s . . . and Morse’s night of
frolic was turned to one of mourning, when he was left holding ‘the
too-well-known empty bag.

* * *

SSS
—_—
SSS

Lande of . Mait:

post-Christmas harangues. And to
the Request of the Hyghest for

Twelve Sheckles Don the Hunger is
rumoured to have answered No
“For-d,” he says, “I have journeyed
1400 leagues to honour the Lande of
Dal with my presence. I have crossed mountains towering in the skies.
I have fought with bare hand and
wepon great hordes of Amazons in
the Landes of Tran-ta and Mo-re-al
and each time I came to the fore
unscathed—I hope. And now when
I reach the Lande of Dal I receive
the deepest cut of all. A cut through
to my money-pouch. I am Don the
Hunger—and I Shall Not Pay.” But
the Kronicler knows better, fhor
there is no appeal from the dechrees
of Kynge Karl and He has spoken.

2. And the studes of the Camp
of Studley rose in ree-bell-hyon Two
Hundred and Eighty strong against
the akshon of the Myghty Council
in deciding that the Music Box
called Whurl-it-zer should re-place
the Famus Bhandes of Sad-lher and
of Nauglher fhor Glee Kloob dances.
And a few, to the nhumber of Sixteen, cried out that they pre-ferred
the Music Box. And the Kronicler
remembhered that the Myghty Council consists of Wisemen to the
Nhumber of Sixteen. But Few of
the Ma-joor-ity were willing to phay
Ten Pence of the Coin of the Realm
to provide orchestras after the
Shows, for they believed that the
Levy of Ten Sheckles which is extrack-ted from Each should phay for
their ann-tics after the shows. And
the Kronicler ventures to agree with
the’ Ma-joor-ity that the Music Box
should be left in the Sthore of Roy
for the amusement of those who inha-bit that Place throughout the
whole Dhay, and should not be played at Glee Kloobs. And the question
seethes in the minds of Many—
“Where goes the Money which the
Glee Kloob has saved this Year on
orchestras ?”

3. And again the Heads of the
Shees of the Lande of Dal grew Hot
as they red the words of, that Great
Voyager from the West, Boob of the
For the Shees
dhrink not Too Much but Too Little
to suit Him of the Lande of Mait
and they remind the Myghty Boob of

On Sunday morning last, Murray|the Polacks of his native lande.

MacDonald gave visible evidence of
his desire for bigger and sturdier
chairs by staging a true sit-down
“strike” in the dining hall, which
Was responded ‘to by cheers and applause by all onlookers. Murray sat
down on a chair which he claims
was as weak as a lamb that can’t
stand the weight of its own wool...
and struck the floor, leaving behind
evidences of what had once been
property of Pine Hill.
ca he

Inter-floor basketball is. creating
much merriment for Hillers. In the
first game of the league the first
floor Old Building defeated the first
floor Annex 33-10. A rougher game
never was seen.

The ping-pong tournament is hee
ing shape and also. ‘the billiard
tournament. ee tre aes

 

 

-joyment.

Seema

And it is reported that for Five
Dhays the eers of the Boob withstood
the win-try blasts but his rep-u-tashun did. not withstand so well, as
the tonghues of the Shees bombasted
him.as only the Shees of the Lande
of Dal and, in particular, of Sheereff Hall can bombast. And the
Kronicler wonders how Boob of the
Lande of Mait can pass judgement
upon Shees of the Lande of Dal for
ik has come to his eers that only
(Continued on page four)

 

The big Pine Hill event—the At
Home — is in the making and

promises to surpass all previous

efforts both in enthusiasm and enAs customary in former
years it will be held in February |)
+ probably the second week of the

2 <4 or

om bt et pee me qemeene:s

Personally ... .

By

HOMO SAPIENS
A True Story

Once upon a time two Australian
debaters visited Dalhousie. One of
them in response to the clamorous
demands of the Law School made a
speech. The speech was entitled
“The Australian Girl” but it turned
out to be in content “What the
Canadian Girl Isn’t.” The only girls
that attended the lecture were
lawyers. Two of them went back to
Shirreff Hall and laughed so much
telling the other girls about it at
lunch that they had great difficulty
in finishing. In this manner a few
Shirreff Hall girls heard about the
all-important speech.

 

4

Suzy

also saw toit that he got his Heralds
back after he had taken their picture. It was on that morning that
these four girls read for the first
time that a speech had been made
down at the Law School. Their reactions were carefully written down
and thoughtfully censored by the
man, then printed a couple of days
later.

The rest of the girl students at
Dalhousie, if they’d heard of the
thing at all, said, as far as this
writer knows, nothing about it. They
didn’t seem to be particularly interested.

Now, after Christmas the men
have unself-consciously come forward again and have proclaimed to

The town girls and the King’s| the world, through the columns of

girls were not so fortunate. Neither
knowing about nor fully realizing
the fatal blow that had been dealt
Dalhousie womanhood, four of them
were approached by quite a pleasant
man who gave them all a copy of
the Herald to read one morning in
front of the Library. May we add
here that the same unselfish man

ALHOUSIE
IGEST

Last Words of Well Known Men:
Each of us, at some hour, will
say his “last words’ an end life’s
story, whether history makes record
of it or not. Napoleon and Frederick
the Great, professional killers and
by nature arrogant, died with war on
their lips; but really great men are
modest, and have no taint of vanity
in their last words.
Beethoven:

Almost everyone remembers the
dying words of Beethoven, greatest
musician thus far born on earth, addressed to his pupil, Hummel: “Is
it not true that I have some talent,
after all?” Modest last words for
the world’s greatest musical genius,
Newton:

When he was old and death was
approaching, Newton, the greatest
mathematical genius, summed up his
career thus: “I do not know what I
may appear to the world; but to
myself I seem to have been only like
a boy playing on the sea shore, and
diverting myself in now and then
finding a smoother pebble or a prettier shell than ordinary, whilst the
great ocean of truth lay all undiscovered before me.”

One of his “pretty pebbles” picked
up on the shore of the ocean of
knowledge, was the law of gravitation that governs the motion of a
falling apple and of sums in infinite
space.

Lord Nelson:

Modest are the last words of the
great British seaman Lord Nelson,
who said dying on his ship in battle:
“Now I am satisfied”; and repeated

 

 

several times: “Thank God, I have
done my duty.”
Keats:

Some men die with pity for themselves. Written on the simple

monument in the Protestant cemetery in Rome under which Keats
lies, is his epitaph, written by himself: “Here lies one whose name was
writ in water.” :
DeBiron |
DeBiron, French general and Duke |
who once fought in America, lowered

himself in his own esteem by fight- |

ing for the revolution in France |
insisted on resigning, and was 4
sentenced to the guillotine. Polite to

the last, when the executioner came
for him as he was eating his dinner, |
he said: “I beg a thousand pardons,
my friend, but permit me to finish |
this last dozen of oysters”. Reminded that he was to lose his head
on the last day of the year, he said:
“I shall arrive in the other world
in time to wish my friends a Happy
New Year”. |
Nathan Hale:
The last words of Nathan Hale,
young American patriot, executed
by the British as a spy, were: “I
only regret that I have but one life |
ito lose for my country.” .
‘Pericles:

The noble Greek, Pericles, who.

 

 

 

| existed

the Gazette how worried the girls
all were. To gild the lily they have
presented interviews containing what
the prominent men on our campus
think with regards to the same topic.
After accomplishing this feat of
daring journalism we have no doubt
that they all went home, satisfied,
to sleep the sleep of the just.

added beauty to Athens and glory
to Greece, consoled himself at the
last with the thought: “No Athenian
ever went into mourning on my account”. Few ancient rulers could
say as much.

Caesar Augustus:

Modesty that often accompanies
true greatness is shown in the last
words of Caesar Augustus, one of
the greatest Roman Emperors: “Do
you think that I have acted my part
on the stage of life well?”
Frederick the Great:

Frederick the Great in his last
moments said “Naked came I into
the world, and naked shall I go out”
—he interrupted, saying: “Not quite
naked, I shall have my uniform on.”
Thomas Cranmer:

Terrifying in their courage were
the last words and the last act of
Thomas Cranmer, Archbishop of
Canterbury, burned at the stake in
1556 by order of Queen Mary of
England. He said before the assembled people: “This hand hath
offended—this unworthy hand.” And
then before meeting death by fire he
held his right hand in the flames
until it was burned. It was the
hand with which, under compulsion,
he had signed a recantation of his
religious b belief.

CREDO—

(Continued from page 1)

loving, and fatherly”, God created
the Universe to be absolutely good
and beautiful. This state of affairs
until the entrance of a
foreign substance which immediately

 

'began to break up the harmony
| which God had created. God had not

planned this and set about planning
a restoration. He chose a people,
the Israelites, and separated them
from the rest of mankind for three
reasons: so that the prophets could
be his witness; so that they could
form a nucleus for this new Kingdom; so that they would provide a
source for a world leader.
The “World Deliverer”
establish and make
life-principle and _ to

came to
available the
create the

| means whereby it can be spread over

the earth. He will come in person
again some day and will restore
peace and perfect harmony for all
time, said Mr. Gardiner.

The speaker believed that sin is
like some disease. The World Deliverer, God, had fought sin and
become immune. Now He can inoculate others with this power to
overcome sin. The life-principle can
be preserved and guided until He
comes again. When He comes the
“Salt of the ‘earth’ who have
flavoured the world, and preserved
the life-principle will come back
with Him and will become His
ambassadors.

 

Into your eyes, so deep, so clear,
I gaze anew
With fondest hope.
Oh what care I for wine and beer,
When I have you,
My microscope.

—U. W. O. Gazette.

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

Page Four

ed iaaanende eee

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

January 20," 19389 
 

 

Militia Beats Dal

Wednesday night the Mili‘ic
Officer’s Badminton Club defeated
Dalhousie 22-8 in the latter’s first
McCurdy Cup Match. The home
team put up a better showing than
was expected; prolonging practically
every match to three games.

In the best games of the evening
Clyde Sperry and Victor Oland battled out a three set match before
the Dalhousie standard bearer defeated Oland 17-18, 15-5, 15-4. In
the second men’s singles won by
Dalhousie Gordon Hennigar defeated
S. K. Oldfield 15-7, 10-15, 15-9.
After a long three set battle
Maureen Allen defeated M. Batt
11-9, 9-12, 12-11. Other points for
Dahlousie were taken by Annie
Longard, Women’s Singles, C. W.
Sperry and J. Dobson, G. Hiseler
and J. Tasman, Men’s Doubles, A.
and G. Longard, Women’s Doubles,
R. Murphy and M. Hall, Mixed.

Leslie Stewart and Gordon Hiseler
defeated Ray Murphy and Stew
Wetmore 17-14, 15-10 to win the
doubles tournament. While last
year’s champs, Ralph Swetnam and
Doreen Dennis came through with
flying colors to take the mixed
and Maureen Allen, 10-15, 15-8, 15-7.
doubles crown from Ray Murphy

Players and badminton fans will
have an opportunity to see Jack
Purcell, World’s Professional Badminton Champion and Don Cutts,
Montreal’s Professional Ace, in action next Thursday evening at the
Day Gym. Come and see how the
game is played.

Entries for the Women’s and
Men’s Singles Tournament will close
around the middle of next week, and
the handsome Oland and Curry
Cups will go to the winners of these
events respectively.

 

BOOK OF BUNK—

(Continued from page 3)

 

once did the Great Boob escort a
Shee of the Lande of Dal for an
evening. And the Kronicler would
remind Him of the Lande of Mait
that to Mate he had better Go West.

4. And many were the sore Heads
which greeted the Sun of Saturday
Morn last. For the Bhall of the
Engineers was Hilarious and Whet,
but then the Engineers’ Bhalls are
always Whet and are noted as being
such. And Great Nhumbers of
Plumbers’ Frends danced into the
wee hours of the Morn. And Many
wondered to what use the committee
rhooms were being Put. And the
Kronicler knows but cannot tell for
there is a Board of Censors.

And here endeth the Third Chapter
of the Fifth Book.

What are little girls made of?

Chlorine, enough to sanitize five
swimming pools; oxygen, enough to
fill 1400 cubic feet; 30 teaspoons of
salt, enough to season 25 chickens;
10 gallons of water, 5 pounds of
lime, enough to whitewash a chicken
coop; 31 pounds of carbon; glycerine, enough for the bursting charge
of a heavy navy shell; enough gluten
to make five pounds of glue; magnesium, enough for ten flash light
photos; fat, enough for ten bars of
#0ap; enough iron to make a sixpenyy nail; sulphur enough to rid a
dog of fleas; and only one quarter
of a pound of sugar.

 

“Then she isn’t one of the sympathetic sort?”
“Sympathetic? Say, that woman
wasn’t born: she was quarried!”
—The Gateway.

—————LSS

$———————— LT
a

ee

—_—_—_—_———

Go

The customary activities of girls’
sport has not been varied this week
by any untoward events.

Badminton tournaments have continued and a women’s singles tournament will soon begin.

Next Thursday night the Kinsman Club is bringing the two topranking Canadian players to Halifax and they will play exhibition
games in the Dal gymnasium. Students will be given a special admission fee, and this will be a chance
to see some really fine badminton.
The main floor will be used Thursday afternoon, so all gym classes
that afternoon are cancelled.

The girls’ basketball teams will
play the Y.W.C.A. teams on the
Y.M.C.A. floor on Friday night. This
is the first game of this season and
will be a good try out for the team.

It looks as if the mixed dancing
class is going to be popular. A
number of boys have spoken to
Miss Wray about it and others are
still trying to get up their courage.
In the girls’ class they dance in
bare feet—and we wonder if the
mixed class will do so too. However, don’t let that worry you!

From Old Gazettes

January, 1879
No time.

© ports

 

habitual neglect of society meetings,
debates, and all literary exercises
outside the actual necessities of
class work. There must be among
the classes of this session an intense
desire to economize time and delight |
the hearts of the Professors by |
placing the sessional average way
up in the nineties. “Grind” seems to
have been selected by the majority
as motto and watchword. This
seems to us to be penny-wise-poundfoolish for what a list of noble
preachers and parliamentarians
could we give whose first lessons
were learned in college debating
societies.

On Tuesday, 7th, inst., the new
High School building was opened.
We heartily congratulate the educational authorities of Halifax upon
the completion of this splendid and
commodious edifice. But there is still
no institution devoted to the higher
or medium female education. Let
Haligonians and Nova Scotians make
this their next task, to provide a
seminary for young ladies.

 

January, 1889

The college societies are in a
flourishing condition. The Y.M.C.A.
meetings were never better attended
than during the present session.
Sodales continues to attract a great
number of students. The ladies take
part in debates. Our gymnasium
has been much improved lately.
New apparatus has been added and
better means have been provided for
preserving both new and old.

Nineteen ladies attend Dalhousie’s
classes at present. Of these seven
are undergraduates, one in first

year, five in second, and one in
third.

January, 1899

Do the medical students know
what Life calls an ideal case from a
medical point of view? It is this
—“‘a healthy man with an incurable
disease.”

The gymnasium class, under the
superintendence of Sergeant-Major
Long, is to begin again. This is an
unexcelled opportunity which should
be taken by every student.

 

 

 

MACLEOD, BALCOM, LIMITED
DRUGGGISTS

Halifax, Sheet Harbour and Kentville, N. S.

 

 

 

This is the excuse which : but is a world’s record in English

students love to give in palliation of |

 

   
  
   
   

DAL, 31; H.C. A. 27

The Dalhousie intermediate
basketball team got off on the right
foot by winning their first lence!
game from the Halifax Academy
team by a score of 31 to 27. The
small floor area of the Y.M.C.A. restricted the open passing attack in
which the Cubs have been coached
so that they were forced to rely on
long shooting to make their points.

The Cubs fell behind at the start
but four consecutive goals by Jock
Hutton kept their opponents within
reach so that they were able to tie
the score by half-time. In the last
half of the second period the Cubs
went into the lead which they retained until the end of the game.
Stewart and Hutchins played steadily
at guard, while Hutton and Byron
Hatfield were making the points at
forward.

Line-up: Hutton, 10; Hatfield, 8
Lyall, 4; Cameron, Charman, James.
MacKenzie, 1; Stewart, 6; Hutchins,
2; Vail, Fraser.

 

 

Bev. Piers took over his first
coaching duties in handling the
team.

January, 1909

Last November in the football
game between Dalhousie and the
Army, the score after the last
whistle stood at 63-0 in favor of
Dalhousie. This not only surpasses
any previous score made in Canada

rugby.
The Ladies’ Parlor

First Freshette: — Who is that
young man who was at the door?

Second Freshette — Oh! he’s a
theologue.

First Freshette (in surprise)—A
theologue. Why he’s almost goodlooking!!

In a fast overtime game played in
the Y gym. last night the Dalhousie
basketball quintette snatched a 87383 victory from the N. S. Tech.

What is probably the biggest event |
of the year in the calendar of the
Glee Club will take place at the
Majestic Theatre on Valentine’s Day,
Feb. 14. On this date the musical
comedy “Carrie Comes to College”
will be presented to the public twice,
in a matinee and an evening performance.

January, 1929

Who was the gentleman who called |
at the Hall with a bicycle to get his |
lady friends? And did he intend
to take them both on the handlebars?

 

|

Toronto, Ont.—The University of
Toronto has a new campus plane.
It will be used in the aerial naviga-|
tion course starting this term in the
Faculty of Science to teach the de-|
tails of construction and the proper is
method of rigging. The plane is to|
be used for ground instruction only |
—students will not have to face the
danger of an aeroplane swooping

down on them as they cross the
campus.

Y.M.C.A., 31,CUBS,17

Dalhousie Cubs lost to the Halifax
Y at Studley last night by a score
of 31-17. The Cubs were outplayed
all the way by the faster, closerchecking Y team. At half-time the
Cubs were behind 12 to 5. In the
second half they matched basket for
basket until Stewart was forced out
with a sprained ankle. For the Cubs
Stewart and Hatfield played the best
game.

Line-up: Hutchins, 2; Hutton,
Hatfield, 3; Stewart, 6; McKenzie,
Lyall, 1; Anderson, 3; Cameron,
Charman, James.

This week-end the Cubs journey to

 

Liverpool to meet the Merpacos in|

an exhibition game.

 

INTERFACULTY BASKETBALL
RESULTS

Arts & Science, 30; Dentistry, 27;

Engineers, 24; Freshman, 15; Medi
‘cine defaulted to Law.

THE WEEK

IN SPORTS

Apart from their skill in shooting

 

and ball handling, the visiting
House of David basketball team
gave a practical demonstration of
the science of the game, from which
the Dalhousie teams should learn a
great deal. When Dalhousie threw
up a zone defense against them, in- |
stead of wearing themselves out in

trying to break through, they adopt- |

ed the system of play most effective |
against it.

Men were stationed in the areas
which the zone defense cannot}
cover, at the black line and in the
corners, and the ball was snapped
back and forth to these spots until
a man was set for a shot. If Dalhousie can as readily adapt themselves to the play of the-teams they |
will oppose they should have a very |
good record this year, as the play
ers are of better than usual ability
ok * oe

The hockey team, though off to|

a bad start in losing their first
three games, has made a better
showing each time. Monday night
they forced the Canadians, who are
now first in the league, into overtime, despite the fact that four
players have been forced to withdraw from competition and another
is probably through for the year,
due to injuries.

DeWolfe on defence was even
more effective than at forward. MceNeil will help to strengthen the
team at front. Munro is playing the

| best goal the team has had for a

long time. With a few games be
_hind them the Tigers will probably
_round into form, After a bad start

last year they managed to reach the
finals of the play-offs and may do
as wer ‘this year.

 

 

Visit Our Oyster Bar
Fresh Oysters, served just like
you want them at _ Boutilier’s
Oyster Bar. Open until 6 p.m.

BOUTILIER’S
BEDFORD ROW

 

 

WHEN YOU NEED:
DRUGS

MEDICINES

PRESCRIPTIONS

YOU GET BETTER SERVICE AND VALUE

Kinley’s Drug Stores

 

GAUVIN AND GENTZEL

Special Rates to Students — 24 Hour Finishing Service

18 SPRING GARDEN ROAD

Phone B 6992

 

 

when you need it.

for college courses.

370 Bloer St. W.,

HELP

Just write for our catalogue of College Helps,
listing more than a thousand and one aids, outlines, and translations

THE BOOK EXCHANGE
Canada’s Book-Clearing House”

 

|

Toronto, Ontario

*| maestro while on.

Cubs Win First; Lose Next Cage Game

TIGERS DROP THIRD
GAME IN OVERTIME

Hallfax Canadiens,
Dalhousie, 6

On Monday night Halifax Cana-| goal of the night.

Again Canadiens took the lead, and
again the Tigers roared back, with
DeWolfe getting his third and final
In the overtime

diens defeated Dalhousie 8-6 in their| Dal, tired by the terrific pace, faded
first meeting of the season, a wide| rather badly, and Canadiens slam
open hockey game which at times
brought the small crowd to the verge
of hysteria.
rough, with many penalties.
'fensive hockey was displayed by
either side, and forward play was
ragged, although Canadiens
|fair inside the blue line. DeWolfe

first period which saw

 

hockey of the night.
ended 2-1. Early in the second
frame Buckley took a terrific check

and failed to rise from the ice. His
loss did not discourage the Tigers,

and they tore into Canadiens for)
Thomas |

two goals, DeWolfe and
scoring. Canadiens got one back and
the period ended 4-3 for Dal.

The third period

wildest hockey of the night, and the |
arena resembled pandemonium for)
Canadiens scored |
De- |

about 35 minutes.
twice in succession to lead 5-4.
Wolfe paved the way for a goal

| Thomas scoring from close in.

SHOTS ON THE NET

Orchids to Pooh DeWolfe. Three
| goals and one assist is great hockey
in any man’s league, and Pooh gave
all he had on Monday night. He had
the fans roaring with every rush.
Unaccustomed to playing defense, he

 

 

 

|marked by little “bar the door”

| hockey, but his performance when
| attacking left nothing to be desired.
It was a fighting display by a great
| athlete.

| Buckley was the smooth little

look quite clean, but apparently the
referee didn’t notice. Thomas showed polished play, featured by good
stick handling inside the Canadian
line. Corston skated fast and had

lots of fight, as did Dickie, who was |!

used a lot. The loss of Feindel
made the defense weak, and MacGregor devoted a good deal of his
attention to the attack, Brawls
threatened at times, and Collins

came close to scrapping. Sections of |

Shirreff Hall showed a tendency to
help him. MacDougall and Veniot
both worked hard, but lacked finish.

May we, in closing, address a few
respectful words to that great body,
the D.A.A.C. Monday night’s game
was a thriller, but Monday night’s
crowd was small. A week ago the
students turned out in force, al
 

The game was fast and |

were |

,, Centre: Buckley, MacDougall.

filled his position well in a game|

That check didn’t |

 

 

med in two goals to take the game.
The contest produced a good many
freak plays. DeWolfe scored twice

No de-| on long shots from the blue line.
Canadiens fifth

goal bounced off
MacGregor’s stick into the cage.
Sticks were high and tempers higher,
and the referee let a lot go by.

|and MacGregor scored for Dal in the | There were numerous penalties, and
the worst! as in the Truro game, the Tigers
The period | failed to capitalize while the opposi
tion was short-handed. Munro turned in a performance that passes
description. Given practically no
protection, he repeatedly stopped
flying forwards who were in the

clear, and kept his head in the most

frantic mixups. But for his stellar

| work the score would have been
produced the} much higher.
Dal line-up:

Goal: Munro. Defense: D. Mac
Greor, DeWolfe, Veniot. Left Wing:
Thomas, Corston, I. MacGregor.
Right
Wing: Dickie, Collins.

though the Tigers had just absorbed
a 7-1 licking in New Glasgow. But
the Truro game was well advertised.
Surely the D.A.A.C. can find a few
dollars to do a little hockey advertising on the campus. The great
majority of the students didn’t know
there was a game. So let’s see some
advertising for the New Glasgow
game, and a big crowd out to cheer
the Tigers.

She was a good little girl, as far
as good little girls go; and as far
as good little girls go, she went.—
McGill Daily.

HAVE YOU TRIED

Our Chocolate
HOT FUDGE
and
Hot Butterscotch
SUNDAES
Special Price, 15e
We deliver

Sandwiches, Sundaes and
Milk Shakes, etc.

Fader’s
Snack Bar

29 COBURG ROAD

 

 

~~ Neilsona |

ed

i oe ee eS

A ne

f*

   
 

RK

—
‘

C.37@

    
   
  
    
 

RICH, DARK, FRENCH
STYLE CHOCOLATE
PACKED WITH CRISP,
CRUNCHY ALMONDS

CHOCOLATE

 

 
