  
 
  
  
 
 
   
 

one.

 

By ROSS MUNRO

  

liament.

Faced with the farmers’ dilemma
of a good crop and falling prices,
the Cabinet is understood to be con
siderably concerned over the loss
which the Federal treasury will
have to meet when the Canadian
Wheat Board has disposed of this

year’s crop.

After six lean years the west has
produced a crop estimated at 334,The federal government has guaranteed 80 cents a
bushel for No. 1 northern at Fort
William if farmers sell to the wheat
board. With practically the whole
crop likely to be sold to the board,
the west will benefit materially, but
the board is selling the wheat at 20
to 80 cents a bushel less than it
It has been estimated
- that the loss to the federal government will be about $60,000,000—
and this is $15,000,000 more than
the annual Canadian National Rail
ways deficit, considered one of the

000,000 bushels.

paid for it.

  
  
   
   
 
 
     
  

+ Span’. 's major burdens.

  

ie the

practice.

With both sides lining up, it appears that the problem of Canada’s
agricultural price economy will be
given a thorough going over when
parliament meets probably before

the end of November.

With Canada selling more. than
its wheat
abroad, this problem naturally assumed international proportions and
closely involves the United States
and its plans for controlling surplus
farm crops. Acutely aware of the
difficulties facing the Dominion and
particularly the west, Premier John
Bracken has called an international
conference on marketing agricultural products to meet in Winnipeg

225,000,000 bushels of

in December.

Many authorities here feel it is
rather peculiar that the international conference has been called by
Mr. Bracken instead of by the federal government. However, Dominion officials likely will attend and
give every assistance to the parley.

There is a belief in some quarters
here that the conference is a development from recent conversations
Between U.S. and Canadian officials
concerning marketing this year’s
surplus wheat crop. No disclosures
have been made as to whether the
two countries are working in uni‘son, but it is’ accepted that this is

“a fact.

Further extension of this principle of co-operation between the
two nations on marketing agricul_ tural products might be worked out
at the Winnipeg conference. President Roosevelt told Senator Josh
Lee of Oklahoma last week that he
f | ___ (Continued on page 4)

ai - IMPORTANT CORRECTION
_ We erred seriously in an an_ nouncement of last we:k. We stata that Dalhousie men could at¢ ae tend Open Nights with a non-Delta
am ie eet ee oe Petey, which
eens oo This i is not

i

~

  
 
  
    
  
  
  

   
 
 
 
 
  
 
   

apie Close-up

a 6. U.P. Correspondent

 

. “OTTAWA, Oct. 24.— With Can-ada’s wheat» worries accumulating,
a major debate on the government’s
agricultural policy and its attitude
towards a subsidy program is predicted for the next session of Par
th party eunhes orient 80 cent
at was the only thing to save
west and that within a few
years government subsidies to agriculture and other branches of our
economy will be eons as sound

ee eee

HALIFAX, N. S., OCTOBER 28, 1938

C.C.F. Sevctary In The Law Courts |Debaters Selected:

Speaks at Dalhousie

Outlining the development of the
C. C. F. party of Canada, David
Lewis, the National Secretary, spoke
last Friday afternoon to a group of
students at Dalhousie. This party,
where farmer, laborer, and members
of the middle class are united to
preserve democracy, is fulfilling a
similar position to that of the’ Labor
party in England, said Mr. Lewis.

Gives Property Classifications

Answering questions which the
speaker invited from the audience,
Mr. Lewis said that all property is
divided into two classes: private and
public. “No one,” said the party
secretary, “is dependent upon the
way you use your own property—
your car, your house, your personal
possessions.” It is public property
that is of tremendous importance to
society and at present that property
is in the hands of a very small group
—owned or at least controlled by as
little as two hundred people over the
Dominion, who use public property
not.as trustees, but for their own
profit.

Considers Nova Scotian Situation

In Nova Scotia about one-fifth of
the population is directly dependent
on the coal and steel works of
the province. Considering the merchants, the farmers, and the fishermen who are selling in the home
(Continued on Page 38)

 

rts and Science

"| Society

 

The executive officers this year
are still imbued with the enthusiasm
of last year’s finale and have plans
which they hope will lay a permanent foundation for this society and
make it a vital force in the life of
Dalhousie, which is its destined lot.

All students on Studley campus
with the- exception of Engineers

proper, Commerce, and Post-gradu- |

ate students are members of this
society.

utmost cooperation by attending the
meetings.

The first meeting of the year
is called for Tuesday noon, Novem
ber Ist, in the Chemistry theatre. |

A partial agenda for that meeting ias follows:

1. Presentation of a preliminary
draft of the Society’s by-laws.

2. Appointment of standing committees and _ interfaculty sport
managers.

3. General discussion on the soiety’s policy in every realm of
student life for this year.

The best way to show your interest in your own University and your
own Society is to be on hand Tuesday atnoon. Members of Class ’42
are reminded that they are members
and are urged to be present. See
you Tuesday in the Chem. Theatre.
Bring a friend.

NOTICES
Players’ Guild:
There will be a meeting of the

Players’ Guild in the Murray Homestead, at 7.30 on Tuesday, Nov. 1.

 

Student Assembly:

All those interested in the proposed study group on modern political
philosophies will meet in Room 2,
Arts Building; Sat., at 12 o’clock.

 

Freshman Show:

Rehearsals on stage every Tuesday and Wednesday evenings at
7.30 sharp.

Open House:
Open House at the Hall this Sat
 

ir | urday night, and every Saturday

night.

Not only is each a member |
but each student, male or female, is| first possible source of annoyance.
urged to give this socieety his or her| In his judgment, Lord Justice Fitz
Chief Justice.

 

Vacancies Discussed.

 

In the an from the decision
of the Supreme Court of Nova!
Scotia in the case of Murphy v. | At a meeting of Sodales, held in
Hart, very little was learned except | room 3 of the Arts Building
that one of His Majesty’s Counsel; Thursday, October the 20th, Jack
insisted that in forming an estimate} Finlay and Jack Petrie were selectof the quality of a restaurant one/|ed to represent Dalhousie in debate
must consider whether there were/| against Robson and Thonemann of
hooks on which to hang coats. This| Australia, in December. The subwould result in the prudent man) ject of the debate is “Resolved that
being unable to judge a restaurant | nationalism is a menace to civilizaby the quality of its food only. This| tion”. Dalhousie has the affirmapoint arose out of the facts of the| tive and will be led by Mr. Finlay.
case, which may be stated briefly; Jack Petrie’s is a new face at
thus: Mr. Murphy left his coat on| Sodales trials, and it much to his
a hook in an alcove, and had his  cradte aS a new man.that he was
dinner. On returning for his coat,|chosen for the most important dehe found it gone. He sued the res-| bate of the year. Mr. Petrie is a
taurant. law student from the west. Mr. Fin
In the case of In re Wasserberg,| lay is well known to all who heard
appealed by Graham Murray, K.C.,| last year’s N.F.C.U.S. debate, where
the question was whether possession
of some bearer bonds placed in a
safety deposit box could. be transferred by handing over the key to
some one else. In this case, a man
gave his wife the key, but gave her
no authority to get into the bank.

Counsel for the respondent, Mr.

John Dickey, K.C., argued his case | Russel and Bob Wallick.
extremely well, but was unable to! While the judges were outside
convince anyone but Lord Justice| President Dickey called the meeting

 

against men from Upper Canada.
Eight of the students present at
the meeting spoke
were: Delmar Amiro,
E. W. Fisher, Jack Finlay,

McQuaid. Mr. Dickey started his|to order, and asked for discussion
case by mentioning an article on the| concerning the vacant executive ofsubject of “donatio mortis cause”, of | fices, caused by the resignation of
which Lord Chief Justice McLeod| Graham Murray and Don MacKeiwas the author. gan, who were elected only a few

Lord Justice McQuaid held at the| weeks ago. Mr. Dickey felt that
end of Mr. Dickey’s remarks that| these positions should be filled at
this article, even if it were in print,| once. Rowan Coleman, former presiwould not bind the Dalhousie Su-|dent of Sodales, who resigned a
preme Moot Court. It was evident| short while ago, said that he felt
from the start that McQuaid, L.J.,| that steps should be taken sumwould hand down a dissenting fide marily to fill the offices without the
ment. Lord Chief Justice McLeod| formality of an election, as the
merely gave judicial approval of his| work of organization now fell upon
own article. Mr. Dickey, who should not have

The third member of the Bench,| to carry the whole of the burden.
Fitzpatrick, L. J., was extremely, Mr. Coleman, who voluntarily took |
kind to Counsel, and gave them a/the chair in Mr. Dickey’s absence,
quiet hearing, only waking up once, | Suggested that an election be held)
re ask for more respect from his| while the present meeting was in
brother, Lord Justice Sutherland. It| progress. He claimed that part of
was obviously a case of a sleeper,| the responsibility of the work of
suddenly awakened, pouncing on the | the president fell upon himself and
|that he would gladly be rid of it.
Doug MacKean, last year’s presi
patrick concurred with the Lord
tion.

' dent,

Lawrence O’Brien, Law stu
CHORISTERS WILL MAKE
START TUESDAY NIGHT

“Choral Society is due for a bumper year, with the incentive of last
year’s Munro Day show as a good
start,” said Lloyd Dalton, President
of the Society, in an announcement
made Wednesday night. Mr. Dalton asks all those who are interested in this Society to watch the|
noitce boards for an announcement
of the date of the first meeting, to
be held during the coming week.

The Choral Society is now entering its second year of existence.
Its meetings are held weekly, usually at Shirreff Hall, and consist of
an hour and a half’s singing under
the direction of a leader.

New Band Room

Moving into their new quarters in
the basement of the Gymnasium
last Saturday, the members of the
Dalhousie Band expressed their
unanimous approval of such unaccustomed luxury. Carvel MaclIntosh, one of the two ardent trom-| Lambeth Walk all done to the same
bonists, said, in an exclusive inter- piece. Not, of course, that it wasn’t
view: “I am still dazed. Such good, attractive — the girls surpassed
fortune cannot: last, >When I thinks | thernselves——but we just couldn’t see
of the hardships and the struggles | why everyone didn’t do the Yam and
that the boys and I have gone get it over with. A gayer galaxy
through together, I sometimes won-| of dresses we have never seen —
der if life in the new band room| there were the inevitable sirens in
will not soften them, and render black, and of course the heads were
them incapable of the efforts we put| on the “up and up”, Never let it
forth in the good old-days.” be said that Halifax is behind the

“Ah me,” said Bain Munro, the| times.
lad who hits the big bass drm, “isn’t! We enjoyed ourselves immensely,
it just too wonderful?” conjecturing who was with whom,

jection to this unconstitutional method of filling the executive by appointment rather than by election
as has been the custom in the past.
It appeared to be the feeling of the
meeting that no honest election
could be held and that for convenience at least arbitrary appointments subject to confirmation should
be made. A motion to this effect
was carried, seven to four.

 

 

AT THE DANCE

You should have been there. My
dear, it was the social event of the
season! Yes, down at the Waeg.
with all those romantic surroundings—water, lights, everything. Of
course I was there—vwell, in spirit,
anyway, but you should never ask
such embarrassing questions. I wish

 

 

swaying and dipping so gracefully.
We couldn’t hear the music, but
whatever Jerry was playing must
have been very versatile, since we
saw the waltz, tango, two-step and

last |

Mr. Finlay led the Dalhousie team)

in competition.

dent, spoke in favor of the sugges- |

and an active member of!
Sodales for several years, took ob-|

you could have seen all the couples |

|

 

|

 

 

Students Support

STUDENTS’
COUNCIL

SUNDAY
AT 2.30

Men’s Common
Room

Art’s Building

 

   

   

No.

5

—_——

‘Soccer Fans Solicit

Committe at U. B.C. Student Support

 

University of B. C., Oct. 5
(C.U.P.) U. B. C. Students gave a
unanimous vote of confidence to the

Student Campaign Committee ap-|

pointed last spring to obtain improv
ed accommodation and a reasonable |
fee-rate, when that committee pre-|
sented its formal report at a meet-|

ing of the Alma Mater Society
today.

The committee expressed
opinion that the Board of Governors,
in calling on the students to provide
additional facilities, by raising fees
$25 in all faculties, had not borne
their true responsibility as legislators of the University.

“We remain one of the few Universities in Canada that have not
been endowed,” they stated, “and
the committee feels that the Board

should awaken to the true needs and)
future of the University, and bring |
In their order of appearance they | to us large private subscriptions.”
Jack Petrie, |

The belief was reaffirmed that

the following points were settled:

1. A building plan setting up
funds so that money would be available every two or three years to
provide for buildings and _ their
equipment.

2. A plan whereby money for
annual operation would be provided
by an annual grant for fixed costs,
plus student fees, plus Government
grants determined by registration.

“It should be remembered that the
students of this University have
never yet commenced a campaign
that has not been successfully carried out,” said Morris Belkin, who
read the report to over 900 students
assembled for the meeting.

Ed. Class at Mt. A.

Following a custom instituted two
years ago with a visit to Acadia
University, the Education Class last
week spent a few days at Mount
Allison University. The members of |
Mt. A.’s Educational Class are ex- |
pected to return the
end of November. The fourteen Dal- |

 

housie education students, and their |

professor, B. A. Fletcher, divided |
their time among the lectures of |
the university, the classrooms of the

Ladies’ College and the Academy,
and those of the Sackville High
School.

when they started to roll in. Yes,
one rolled in—or maybe he has natural difficulty with his “r’s”. My
dear, you know, escorts should be
taught to drop you at the door and
not expect one to tramp from the
parking space—but then there is the
helpless clinging vine tpye.

There must have been a lot of
heart-breaks among the male populace when that invitation failed to
come in. We noticed that many
fraternity boys must be studying
hard of late—never let it be thought
that they are slipping. (To whom
it may concern; Sally Spry is the gal
that knows the answers to your
difficulties). We had a breathless
moment when one honoured guest
was so overcome that he forgot his

impatient cars waiting while he
fumbled sheepishly for the missing
lucre. And who was it that: forgot
to wear her fraternity pin, especially
for such an important event? We
produced safety pins, but somehow
they wouldn’t serve as passports to
the Heaven beyond, so we had to
content ourselves in the shadows—
no, not the tradesman’s entrance.
Well, we were in an awful hurry
and were terribly sorry we could

the |

Doug | problems of finance and accommoda- |
MacKean, Whitney Dalrymple, Bill! tion could notbe carried out until

visit at the |

 

Soccer gained a new lease on life
this week as the Newfoundland Club
announced arrangements for a
campus league, to be finalized dur'ing the next few days. Three teams
at least are needed for the league,
the leadership of which will be
recognized by a cup, procured by
Mr. Sykes, of the Murray Homestead. Pine Hill and the Newfoundland Club have each entered a team
for the league, so that one more
team is needed before a schedule can
be drawn up, and the games get
under way.

An important meeting will be held
on Saturday, Oct. 29, at noon, in the
Arts Building. Two representatives
from each team wishing to enter
this league must be present. Satur| day is the last day for entries.

 

 

D. A. A. C. Meeting

 

The semi-annual meeting of the
D.A.A.C. will be held in the Chemistry Theatre on Thursday, Nov. 3rd,
1938, at 12.15 a.m., when the pres|entations of interfaculty track and
football prizes will take place.’

There will be discussion of two
suggested changes in the constitution:

1. Moved that Article 26, section
I, “A” be amended to read as follows:

“Members who have played more
than one game on the senior team,
or more than one game on the intermediate team, in that sport and
during that year, in which they wish
to play interfaculty sport.”

2. “Moved that Clause I of Article 26 be amended by adding thereto
subsection as follows, to be known
as subsection “C”:

“Members who have been, in the
immediately preceding year, awarded
a major “D”, in that sport in which
they wish to play interfaculty sport.
Provided that in any year the club
is not represented by a senior team
|in that sport, then the foregoing
part of this clause shall not be
applied.”

 

 

 

Institute
Holds Conference

 

To discuss social and labour problems of the Maritime Provinces, a
group of leading industrialists will
meet Friday and Saturday of thi
week with some experts of the professional and university world, under the auspices of the Institute of
Public Affairs of Dalhousie University. This is the second such conference that has been held in Nova
Scotia, the first having been held
last year. It is hoped that the mutual exchange of ideas thus afforded
will prove to be an important factor in the industrial life of the
Maritimes.

The morning and afternoon sessions of the Conference will be held
in the Faculty Room of King’s College, and are reserved to those taking an active part in the Conference. Among the papers will be

 

“The Social Responsibility of the

|Employer’, by A. B. Purvi
taxi fare and kept a whole row of. eo y urvis, of the

Canadian Industries Ltd.; “The Responsibility of the University’ by
B. A. Fletcher, Professor of Education; “Canada’s Social Problems and
the Constitution”, by V. C. MacDonald, Dean of the Law School.

girls’ hearts aflame had just arrived
— Where’s Elmer? Even at that
some people were looking dreamy—
you’ve no idea what it looks like to
see boy and girl swaying romantically when you aren‘t there, and are

only stay till nine-thirty, but even | feeling in a funny mood. They lied
then everything seemed to be cosy.| when they said the movies are your
That new medico who has set the best entertainment.

 
    

 

 

. ie

i <
a Rounded 1869. “The Oldest College Paper in America”

 

"Printed by McCurdy Printing Co., Ltd., Argyle St.

as me GAZETTE STAFF

 

-_ Baitor: BERNARD GRAHAM B-5033
News Editor: WALTER MURPHY B-5191

Sports Editor: DOUGLAS LYALL B-2607
Business Manager: SIDNEY A. GILLIES B-5487

Associates: Barbara Murray, Marjorie McLean, Jim Milner
eee OOOO
EXAMINATIONS

_ We have no desire to be nasty, when we remind you that
the Christmas examinations will be held in just over six weeks.
But if one is to think about examinations at all, he might just
as well start while there is still time to do something besides

an.
“ If you know almost nothing about a subject, last minute
cramming may be worth a few points. Certainly, to one who
is familiar with his material, a review shortly before the examination is of value, if it is undertaken without the feeling of
inute desperation. ;
ka Worry: aia the type of conduct and thinking it engenders,
robs many students of almost as many marks as does ignorance. Worry, before an examination, destroys much of the
effectiveness of the reviewing by interrupting the smooth continuity of thought, and by giving rise to that frantic study

 

' which destroys perspective and fails to give an appreciation

of the relationship between the various parts of the subject;
—and certainly an understanding of the relation of one part
of the subject to another should be the main contribution of
any reviewing.

Worry, during an examination, interferes with the clarity | Mackenzie and G. Fred Pearson,
and depth of thought, and often removes one’s ability to ap-| who did so much to promote the wel
Most of the questions asked in examinations are selected by
the professors with some care. If a student can say, before he}
starts to answer a question, just why it is a good question, or
what the professor had in mind when he set it, his answer will
be much more to the point and will be much more quickly
written down than would be the case if the student saw no
point in that question being set. To be robbed of this discernment is to lose many valuable marks. So why worry?

 

“THEY THAT HAVE EARS...”
(Contributed)

During the college year many excellent speakers are
brought to Dalhousie to lecture on a wide variety of subjects.

These lectures, sponsored by different campus organizations,

are usually given by specialists in their own field, who ask no
remuneration from the students who attend. It is a rare opportunity, and while usually the names of the speakers are unfamiliar it is often discovered that they hold positions of great
responsibility in their own spheres. Two such opportunities
were given recently and the response by the students was
pitiful. At one address, given by a cultured and widely travelled woman speaker, only a handful of students was present
to hear her narrate about her rich experiences in a foreign
land. At the second, when the National Secretary of a Canadian political party spoke, there was less than a handful, if
that could be measured. Particularly noticeable by this absence on this occasion were the class of 42.

Among the most important contributions of a college edueation are the broadening of the outlook, and the removal of
the provincialism with which so many of us are afflicted. New
students are especially urged to watch the notice boards for
announcements of these lectures and to avail themselves of
every opportunity to attend.

YOUR PROFESSOR—A FRIEND

When some students graduate, and look back upon their
memories of college and review the things from which they
obtained most value, they think of their professors. They think
of them not only as lecturers, but as teachers and scholars, as
men who have illuminated their studies and introduced them
to the world of thought as no book ever could. These students
think also of their professors as they met them outside the
class room, as they talked with them about many things not
related to their college work, as they gradually came to know
them as friends.

These student-professor friendships, which add so much
of lasting value to one’s years at college, are confined to a
small fraction of the student body, and for the most part develop in the last year or two at the university. That
more students do not become well acquainted with their professors is mostly the fault of the students. Of course there
are some who don’t want to know their professors, who believe
that the less they see of them the happier they’ll be.

But surely there are many more who do not meet their
professors because of their timidity, or because they do not
realize what is to be gained by such an acquaintance. We urge
such students to remember that the professor is the best person to answer the questions you may have about your work
and to clear away the confusion that may exist in your mind
on some points. In general, you need have no fear of him
“biting your head off’, for what many professors may lack in
ability at exposition they more than make up for it in patience
and kindness.

You may not believe it, but many members of the faculty
are more human than most students; and it is worth your
while discovering that for yourself. Having met your professors personally to discuss your work, you have taken the first
step towards a friendship which you will value later. But re
geet you must go to him, you cannot expect him to come
you. . |

‘

 

 

v..cHOUSIE GAZETTE

We present here a tribute to Dr.
A. S. Mackenzie from Hon. R. G.
Beazley, a member of the Board of
Governors and long a friend of Dr.
Mackenzie. This was received too
late to be included in the memorial
issue :—

“The death of Dr. A. Stanley Mackenzie removes still another former
staunch pillar of Dalhousie University. During its construction period
he, the late G. Fred Pearson and I
were brought in almost daily contact, so that I saw at first hand the
value of the service rendered to
Dalhousie by these two men.

They looked upon its growth much
the same as a parent would regard
the development and welfare of their
child. They foresaw the physical as
well as the academic needs of the
institution, and put forth every effort to extend and develop both. To
their initiative and resourcefulness,
to their modest yet unremitting efforts to obtain funds for the university is due in large measure the
Dalhousie of today.

Besides the direction of the internal affairs of the university, Dr.
Mackenzie was ever ready and willing, and always found time to discuss and advise in matters pertaining to building requirements, and
was remarkably well equipped to
discuss details with the architect
and builder.

Let us hope that in the not dis
 

tant future some tangible means |

will be found to perpetuate the
names and memories of A. Stanley

R. G. BEAZLEY.

To The Students

 

 

 

25 Kent Street,
Halifax,
October 17th, 1938
Mr. Gordon Mackenzie,
President, Students’ Council,
Dalhousie University.
Dear Mr. Mackenzie,

May I speak to the students of
students of Dalhousie and Kings
through you—and express to you all
for myself and my family our deep
appreciation of your magnificent
tribute to my Father.

To have you turn out in hundreds
to do honour to him, and through
him to Dalhousie, was a very fine
expression of your thought and feeling, and one that would have touched
him deeply.

We send our: grateful thanks to
you all for your beautiful basket. of
flowers that you sent in my Father’s
memory. We shall always remember how you paid him honour and
wish you all god-speed.

Always sincerely yours,
Marjorie Mackenzie King.

REUNION

Though perhaps we don’t know
it, we Dalhousians are being subjected to a little kidding about our
Reunion (or is it Reunions?) In the
following editorial from “Saturday
Night”, reprinted in The Brunswickan, we find an example:

 

“Competition in anniversary cele- |
brations is very hot among the edu- |

cational institutions, merged and

 

unmerged, of the magnificently edu- |
cated Province+of Nova Scotia. The’

recent Dalhousie celebration
awakened some jealousy among its
neighbors by reason of being the
second ‘centennial” that the institution has observed within the space
of a generation, there having been
a performance in 1919 to commemorate the hundredth anniversary of
the chartering of the University, as
distinct from the commencement of
its operations, which took place in
1838.

“Acadia, at Wolfville, on the
other side of the Nova Scotia peninsula, got itself founded and started
at the same time, and is therefore
unable to celebrate more than the
single centennial which it has been
observing this week; while King’s,
now federated with Dalhousie, pays
no attention to any Dalhousie celebrations, being already so ancient
that it will celebrate its hundred
and fiftieth birthday next year. The
situation has been rather charming
has |

 

DALHOUSIE DIGEST

“Never explain. Your friends
don’t need it and your enemies won’t
believe you anyway,” is the way
Elbert Hubbard puts it: The writer
of this column appreciates that
smart bit of advice which is the reason why the usual opening paragraph of explanation is missing.

 

 

Stick this inside the front cover of
best book:

“Remember, book, your proper shelf,

From which my friend hath helped

himself,

And, like a dove with wings unloosed,

Return, come back, fly home to
roost.”

 

Look at this opening paragraph
of Dickens’ “A Tale of Two Cities”.
Dickens might have been writing in
1938!

“It was the best of times, it was
the worst of times, it was the age of
wisdom, it was the age of foolishness, it was the epoch of belief, it
was the epoch of incredulity, it was
the season of Light, it was the season of Darkness, it was the winter
of despair, we had everything before
us, we had nothing before us, we
were all going direct to Heaven, we
were all going direct the other way
—in short the period was so far like
the present period, that some of its
noisiest authorities insisted on its
being received, for good or for evil,
in the superlative degree of comparison only.”

 

Chinese wisdom from Confucius:
“When you know, to know that
you know, and when you do not
know, to know that you do not know |
—that is true knowledge.” |
“Instead of being concerned be
 

cause you are not known, seek to

'be worthy of being known.”

“Only two classes of men never
change: The wisest of the wise and
the dullest of the dull.”

 

Heard in the gym: “He’s as
roundshouldered as a watermelon.”

 

Let us listen to words from the
Talmud, the ancient book which contains the Jewish civil and canonical
laws and traditions, with the commentaries and legends of the Rabbis:

“Woman was not formed out of
a man’s head, that she might not be
too proud; nor out of his eye or ear,
so she be not curious to see and
hear everything; nor out of his
mouth, so she might not be too much
given to talking; nor out of his
heart, so she might not be jealous;
nor out of his hand and foot, so she
might not touch everything nor go
everywhere; he formed her out of his
rib, which is hidden from sight, so
she might exemplify the qualities of
modesty, virtue and purity.” Did
the idea work out well?

 

Listen lawyers, to Plutarch: The
wise old Solon was asked if the
Athenians had been left the best
laws that could be given. Solon replied “the best they could receive.”

He said that a long time ago, but
human beings still get as good laws
and “as good government as they
deserve.”

One Greek laughed at Solon “for
imagining the dishonesty and covet- |
ousness of his countrymen could be
restrained by written laws, which
were like spider’s webs, and would
catch, it is true, the weak and poor,

 

but easily be broken by the mighty
and rich.”

Someone else said laws were like
fish nets that could hold small fish,
but not really big fish. Isn’t it still
true, here and there?

 

“Don’t fail to remember that all
men are born free and equal, but
some get married.”

 

Will the “aspiring young poet”
who submitted contributions under
the pseudonym “C” please reveal his
identity to the editor. At your request your name will be kept in
strict confiidence.

 

ly taken off by a Wolfville poet in
the following lines:
While Acadia has one centennial,
At Dalhousie they’re almost perennial,
But the ancients at King’s
Show their scorn of such things
By talking about their milennial.”

October 28, 1938.

“The purest form
in which tobacco
can be smoked.”

 

KH 4aame lel

CIGARETTES.

 

 

 

   

  
       
     
         

;

’

 

IS OF OUTSTANDING QUALITY

“Taste the difference”

Farmers Ice Cream

FARMERS’ LIMITED - Halifax

|
:
|
|
|
|

 

 

To The Class

|
The Finest |
Hi! of 742

_ Sporting Goods |

When it comes time for

= choosing the class pin,
MUSICAL SUPPLIES | make it easy for the com| mittee by telling them to

May Be Obtained at go to Birks.
PHINNEY’S Years of experience and

expert craftsmanship assure a satisfactory result.

HENRY BIRKS AND
SONS LIMITED

Diamond Merchants

       
   

‘Vhinney,

456-460 Barrington St.

 

Halifax, N. S.

    
   
   

 

 

 

BROOKFIELD BROS., LIMITED

131 UPPER WATER STREET - Phone B-8174
LUMBER AND BUILDERS’ SUPPLIES

|
|
|
IS YOUR RESIDENCE WARM?

Storm Sashes and Insulation Our Specialty
SASHES MEASURED FREE OF CHARGE

CONSULT US FOR PRICES

  

 

The Nova Scotia Technical College

Offers Engineering Courses

in

CIVIL, ELECTRICAL, MECHANICAL, and MINING

To Dalhousie Students with Engineering Diplomas.

Modern Equipment, Instructing Staff with Individual Experience.
Twenty Free Scholarships of $75.00 each for Nova Scotian Students.

Write or call for Calender or advice to
F. H. SEXTON, President.

 

eee

 
 
 
 
    
   
    
  
     
   
    
  
   
    
    
   

  

a REVIEW

 

1 the inerease of social interfollowing the opening of the
; century, the need of a wide
ledge of human nature and afhas become more and more imfant to lawyers and students of

d Macmillan is one of the best

sh law to evidence this neq sity in writing. In “Law and
Other Things” he does this in four_ teen interesting and informative
ib _ To those who are familiar with
the law Lord Macmillan needs no
introduction, but others who will
want. to read this collection of es_ Says and speeches may not know
__ what peculiar qualifications the author has, and with what authority
he- speaks. Baron Macmillan of

oe

    

_ Aberfeldy was created in 1930. He
is a son of the Scotch manse, edueated at Edinburgh and Glasgow.
At Edinburgh University he took
_ first class honors in philosophy and
as a Cunningham Scholar he rems ceived his LL.B. at Glasgow. His
_-—s¢areer at the Bar and later, on the
_ judicial committee of the Privy
Council, has been marked with pub-___ jie service and merited reward. The
- best known universities on both
_ sides of the water have recognized
him in conferring honorary LL.D.’s.
| -—-~—-—sC' While the book is one of primary
_ interest to the lawyer and law student, its variety of subject material
__-will hold the attention of any student of sociology or the humanities.
- he other things of which Lord

_ Macmillan writes cover the whole

ely

i
F
i

<
.
5

: .

PROPAGANDA

 

mi.

University students, because of
their background and privileged po___ gition, are usually insulated quite
effectively from the real world. But
ia in an increasing number of cases
- this insulation is being destroyed
by the sharpening crisis in our
present society. Students are be*  ¢oming more and more alive to the
fact that their country is being
__—-wastefully exploited for the profit
of a handful of “owners”, and its
people robbed of their heritage.
_ They see the people betrayed, di__ vided and without vision or underi standing, and they see the detached
in  eallousness of the leaders of industry and government.
, To Canadian students who desire
- change, the Co-operative Commonwealth Federation offers a program
of action and an instrument through
which to carry it out. During the
six years since it was founded, the
C.C.F. has made extraordinary pro; gress. In most of Western Canada
; the Conservative party has disappeared, its place being taken by the
Liberal party, and the C.C.F. has
become the party of the workers
and farmers. Its strength is rapidly increasing in Ontario, both in
provincial and municipal politics. In
the House of Commons its seven
y representatives provide an extreme4 ly able, active, and practically the
;, only intelligent, Opposition.
In Quebee and the Maritime Prov___ inces its advance had been slow un| til the miners of Nova Scotia and
New Brunswick, in convention at
Truro during August of this year,
decided unanimously for affiliation
with the C.C.F. for political action.
Local branches of the party are
now being organized throughout
this Province, and the National Secretary is at present in Halifax for
this purpose. The movement needs
‘young men and women with univer
            
    
 

z
ae
5

’ “

the world and the ability to lead.

_ A left-wing party in Nova Scotia
has already a fairly strong base in
the Co-operative movement and organized labour. Organization and
_ leadership are being developed
among the people of the province
__ through their co-operative societies,
_  eredit unions, and labour unions.
_ This work must be carried on and

x

 
  
      
   
     
  
   
  
    
     
  
    
  
  
  

    
 

 
 

- a

‘miners, factory workers, and members of the middle class must be
united for democracy and socialism.
_ This is the job that must be done
_ now; and this is the opportunity for
_ students of Dalhousie University.

 

.

4

Observations (on
eer

i fied of modern exponents . of

 

 

 
 

order, ethics, rel; D) on, history, letters, and citizenship

A chapter Of particular interest
to the professional reader is “Some
the Art of Advocacy”, a lecture delivered before the
Birmingham Law Students’ Society,
in 1933. The apparent age of this
lecture need not. cause the reader
to scorn the book as “out of date”
because much of what Lord Macmillan has written will not be out
of date so long as-our present social
system holds out.

To the untutored reader, the chapter on the. “Ethics of Advocacy”.
(read before the Royal Philosophical
Society at Glasgow as long ago as
1916), may prove that there is
something more than the lawyer’s
purse to be considered in an action
at law. As the author said two
decades. later, when he delivered
this lecture, he was “immersed in

 

the daily practice of the Law Courts

and he was concerned to vindicate
the profession by which he earned
his livelihood from the aspersions
commonly cast upon it.” He answers, and answers well, the question so frequently put to lawyers,
“How can you plead a cause you
think is wrong?” It will be sufficient to remark here that lawyers
are faced with the difficult task of
convincing laymen that there are at
least two sides to every question.
A more difficult question, but one
which arises only on rare occasions,
is the problem a lawyer is faced
with when he finds a case against
his own point, about which the
judge and opposing lawyer obviously know nothing.
LAW AND LIFE
(Continued on page 4)

 

 

LETTER

 

Editor, Dalhousie Gazette:

Dear Sir,—In last week’s issue of
your paper, I read with interest an
editorial asking for an expression
of student opinion as to how the
‘money collected from the students
in ten dollar fees should be spent
by the Students’ Council. Frankly,
my reaction, whether it was justified or not, was one of surprise that
the Students’ Council should collect
such an amount from the students
without first realizing where the
need of it lay and being able to
distribute it rather readily. But perhaps what they want is a democratic backing. The editorial reads:

“We can suggest no . better
place (for students to express
views) than... at the Students’
Council meetings.”

In the next column, however,

“Obiter” puts a damper on this
cordial invitation. He says:

“ ... the Council has convinced
me that it will take more than
the mere vox populi to loosen
them.”

I did not know, moreover, that it
was possible for a student to get
an unofficial seat at a Students’
Council meeting, and I concluded
that the best way to meet the chal
Such questions| are interested in news work.

ee

Having just left a friend with
whom I was discussing the Dal Law

 

| Library, I am seriously considering

writing something in this column
about the aforesaid library. It has,
as you may possibly know, one feature (perhaps more) in common
with the library and desks of Eton
College in England. Over there, the
seats are almost as hard and as
badly marked up, as the seats in
the Law School. Of course they
charge money to cut initials on
their desks now. In time Dalhousie
will think of that, too. But right
now, the main feature of similarity,
so far as one may judge from photographs, is the great agony with
which the student learns his Latin
over there, and his jurisprudence
over here. It has some psychological basis, I believe. Something about
negative adaptation, and over compensation.

One never knows what psychologists are talking about anyway. I
doubt if they know themselves. If
they taught psychology in seats like
those in which they teach law, you
wouldn’t hear so much of this overcompensation. Sometimes I think
conservatism can be carried past the
point of absurdity. That’s what
they have been doing in the Law
School. They have carried it to the
point of acute discomfort. After
the serious consideration I spoke of
above, I have decided not to write
about the Law Library.

The headlines of the local press
offer much information to those who
During the past week or so, the dear

reader has been carried from Spain, |
to Czechoslovakia (I haven’t an at-|

las handy), to China, and last but
not least to Palestine. I am always
very suspicious about that. Palestine
headline. It always pops up when
the other habituals are inapplicable.
I can’t feel that the papers are very
sincere when they use it. But the
headline about China, and the bloodless seizure of some place or other,
now that was news.

See how Hitler has become a great
peacemaker? Now wars. will be

 

ape, piel geeenanaeeneipeninaal iaechieig hoodies axoeanenone ns oem elehtenaeaa alia ABest seated akncanulh as maninens ap abancratinumsinainen aneeaal

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

WHAT GOES ON?

Greetings to all and sundry—if
you didn’t read last week’s instructive discourse, here’s another.
WHAT GOES ON gives its views on
the world and what’s in it...

People are becoming emotional
once more about world affairs .. .
Britain has stained her white robes
in the mire of Munich . . . Chamberlain capitulated to paganism and the
Nazi monster . . . and- they run on,
while governments act as selfishness
dictates—the democracies to hold the
empires they gained by trickery and
brute force from the Ethiopian or
the Czechoslovakian of ‘that time—
the dictators to steal all they can.

The superior attitude of America
(and Canada) toward Europe and
the various types of Kilkenny cats
therein residing is slightly foolish—
provincial and state control of defense in North America, with a
language barrier between the fiftyseven divisions of the continent,
plus twenty or twenty-five years for
nationalistic education, would produce another Europe. As individuals
we have advanced no further than
Europeans—fate merely gave us a
break,

Polish and Hungarian support of
German claims in Czechoslovakia is
an example of nationalistic blindness
—their turn will come in time .. .
These states with Russia and Rumania might have stopped Germany
cold—One and a half million Germans in Poland will be sufficient

 

-excuse for the exercise of “Hitler’s

loving kindness” .. .

Another angle . . . the addition of
the industrial Sudetenland will not
solve the German hunger for agricultural products . . . Who’s next?

. .. German confiscation of all radio |

sets — perhaps the Nazi regime is
weakening? Government censorship
of radio in France . . . a step nearer
Fascism ?
turbulant country ?

Withdrawal of Italian troops from
Spain may mean more trouble in
Ethiopia for Mussolini . . . Rising

feeling in insurgent Spain against}

foreigners may also be part of the
reason. There has been pressure for

truly humanized. No more extended | their i moval even among Franco’s
physical combat. Each country will | ciate raga

figure out who has the strongest
army, and whoever comes out at
the top will be given the right to
win the battle. The biggest drawback is that it still involves the
high cost of armaments. But Hitler
is looking after that, too. He has
a program for disarming other nations. Possibly it will meet with
the approval of some governments,
but even the muddle-headed English
may see through this.

This may even help to enlighten
the Canadian attitude toward Imperial affairs, which, according to
the C.U.P., became a little obscure
during the recent German crisis.
(The recent one was the Munich
one, I suppose). Before that, as
everyone knows, the Canadian attitude was clearly understood by everyone; but not in quite the same
way. Some understood it clearly
one way, and others, notably the
French in Quebec, understood it
clearly in the opposite way. What

| with this and that, however, we do

lenge was through the columns of learn things from the newspapers

your paper.

This brings me to what I have to
say, and I am assuming that there
is a surplus in the Council funds
that has no claims, thus far, against
it. Last week’s Gazette also contained an item on the new Film
Society and published the Society’s
plan to get a subscription of a dollar from each interested student.
Now, I want to make it clear that

sity training—an understanding of|I am as yet in no way connected

with this society, and all my information concerning it came from
your paper. Perhaps I am utterly
amiss in doing so, but the question
naturally suggested itself: Why not
take such a portion of the Council
funds as its members may see fit
and direct it towards giving this
new society a start? I throw out
this as a suggestion to those in

d. The farmers, fishermen,| charge and trust that it will come

to their notice.
Thanking you for the space in
your paper, I remain,
ANOTHER “TORCH BEARER
OF THE PROPER KIND OF
SCHOOL SPIRIT.”

(besides the adventures of Henry

and Blondie).

CO-ED EXPLAINS PET GRIPES
OF UNPLANNED DATES

The constant pet gripe of the girls
now is that boys simply won’t plan
their dates!

Says one co-edy “For the life of
me, I can’t understand these boys
who call you up and want to know
what you would like to do. After all,
he’s the one who asked for the date
and should have enough interest to
plan it.”

“The indefinite date is the worst!”
declares another, “ ‘Yeah, I’ll be
around about eight. O.K.?’ And
that’s that! Then the buzzer rings
at 8.15 and if I grab my hat and
coat and go flying down to greet him
he is all prepared to spend a nice
quiet evening in the parlor; or if I
rush down hatless and coatless I find

 

him impatiently wanting to ‘Take |’ ’

off’ to a show, then I have to hurry
back to the third floor to throw on
the wraps; or, if I come down in
street clothes expecting to go to a
show, he looks me over once or

  

 

| ther dumb action . .

 

If Germany dominates from. the
North to the Black Sea she will have
earned it .. . Hitler and Co. are the
only group in Europe who know
what they want, and are willing to
chance all on one throw of the dice
—According to some, no democratic
government could act with such decisiveness ... Such tripe — if the
British government wanted to. it
could force almost anything through
the House of Commons—the British
government is using democracy as
an excuse for its refusal to face the
facts since the Versailles Treaty ...
Appeasement shortly after the war
might have saved Germany from
Hitler — today it will be taken by
Germans to be a sign of AngloFrench weakness...

Senate elections in France support
Daladier . . . a poor indication of
French opinion on the Munich settlement . . . The Senate is elected
by a small portion of the people...
by what section of population which
tends toward the Right and Conservatism in French politics.

Dies Committee in U. S. names

| Einstein and a score of professors

as communist sympathizers—a ra- we could use
a few communists in America, particularly if they are like our own
Tim Buck ... a fine and sincere
Christian, . . . believe it or not...
In case youdon’t know it, the Dies
Committee was appointed by Congress to investigate subversive organizations, especially the Fascist
type ... It was also aimed at reactionary industrial barons. The committee is now hunting Reds with all
the fervor of Toronto Tories.

All -joking aside — liberty
speech and conscience is threatened even in Canada — Quebee’s
Padlock Law was inspired by a
Roman Catholic hierarchy who wish
to dominate the mind and soul of
Canada through Quebec—It’s rather
a stupid law but a sign of the times
Hepburn’s anti-union tactics
were of the same type. .

of

twice and wants to know if I’m not
feeling well and why I decided not
to go to the dance, How is one to
know ?”—McGill Daily.

What is going on in that |

 

 

Dear Miss Spry: —

I am a second year Law student,
six feet two, blonde, handsome, a
virtual Greek Adonis. In fact,
among my friends I am known as
God’s gift to the ladies; but it is
surprising how few girls seem to
realize this.

I have few vices; I seldom smoke;
I never drink; I dress according to
the latest dictates of “Esquire”. My
dancing is far superior to that of
most college students. I am capable
of carrying on an intelligent conversation. When I do manage to
get a girl to take out, I behave like
a perfect gentleman. If the girl is
far from Shirreff Hall, she gets
back with plenty of time to spare.
And yet, strange as it may seem,
it takes a week’s allowance of
nickels to get me a girl.

Miss Spry, there is one girl in
particular I should like to impress,
but I fear she is completely unaware of my existence. I would be
unceasingly grateful to you if you
gave me a few pointers on how to
go about matters.

Hopefully,
“ANSWER TO A MAIDEN’S
PRAYER.”

 

 

Dear Answer to a Maiden’s Prayer:

You have a great deal of work
ahead of you my boy, but it will be
well worth your while in the end.
In about a month you should have
the girl of your desires eating out
of your hand.

(ee ee

Advice to the Lovelorn

ee Se ee

Page Thrive

 

I would, however, advise you to associate with as few Law students
as possible, so that you will not
adopt their ways and customs.

You must set about cultivating a few vices. Drinking is the
first one I would advise, both because it is the easiest to cultivate,
and because it produces the quickest results. Also, please remember
that no girl is as happy as when
she giggles—you are expecting entirely too much of a girl when you
require her to carry on an intelligent conversation.

At every college there are a number of girls whose sole ambition is
to add as many men as possible to
their list of conquests. Start off by
getting a date with one of these—
nothing is simpler. Take her to see
“Ritz Brothers” and laugh long and
loud at each one of their silly antics. She will come back and say
she had a riotous time. If she happens to be from Shirreff Hall, find
out at what time she has to be in,
and bring her back sixteen minutes
later. Or, five minutes before the
time she is expecting you, ring her
up and say that, due to circumstances over which you have no control, you will be unable to show up.
To say the least, she will be aware
of your existence.

Now you are ready to start out
on the lucky girl you mentioned. I
don’t think you’ll find it hard to get
a date with her now. Just remem
| ber one thing —no perfect gentle
It is most unfortunate that you|}man ever gained for himself the

are a Law student,
handicaps than this have been over
come by courage and perseverance. |

but greater| reputation of a dashing Romeo.

Good luck to you.
SALLY SPRY.

 

C. C. F. SECRETARY—

(Continued from Page 1)

market, it means that roughly sixty
perecent of the Nova Scotian population is dependent on the coal and
steel industry. Because a small
group of Dosco officials decide that
Thorburn is to close, for no other
reason then that they are not making a profit, Thorburn becomes a
ghost town, wiped off as a community of Canada, said the speaker.

The Dosco officials simply refuse
to take into account the thirteen
hundred human beings of Thorburn,
preferring to make a profit from imported coal and keep the McBean
seam in reserve.

Under C. C. F. principles the
welfare of the Thorburn inhabitants
would be the first consideration.
“The government today is carried on
by industrialists”, said Mr. Lewis,
“and I should think that the Premier
of Nova Scotia consulted and acted
upon the advice of Dosco officials before he gave his answer to the
Thorburn committee.” It was the
opinion of the speaker that another
year of the depression which Nova
Scotia has had in the past six or
seven months from the mining situation will be keenly felt in the home
market.

EER LATER

 

 

 

  

OUR HATTIE

By PATTER

  

 

Latest flash! Hattie is in the
freshman show, at last. She won’t
tell us what part she has and
we are having spasms of horrible
thought—the pink of organdy, fairy
costume, etc.

Hattie failed to make her usual
clean sweep of gallant gents on the
football field t’other Saturday.
Perhaps it was the noisy tweeds
she wore ’cos it was so cold. Nevertheless, before she could mutter “aspidistra” she had run some unsuspecting frosh to earth and took him
to the Open House.

We have reason to believe Hattie
picked up gossip a-plenty about after -football- game activities and
we’re struggling to keep these vague
snippets out of the papers! Dear,
dear—

In Mr. Atwood’s esteemed Emporium afterwards, Hattie embarrassed
us to tears by asking how much the
fraternity pins were. We had to

tell her hastily and discreetly that
one didn’t get ’em that-a-way.

By the way, the goon who was
befuddled into taking Hattie to the
Law Brawl has hopped his bail.
Any other—ah—offers ?

 

 

 
   

!

ie al

 

 

 

Y
4 4 {
+4 i
og g
4 , 7 o a a
ee 118
i‘ ‘ " f .
‘on! ' AC
2 5 >
a Fe
. ‘ '
_ > =
f
f

 

are important for young lawyers to

know, because in this uncertain day

everything must be done to retain

the prestige of the profession.

The last lecture in the book, and
one of closely allied problems, is
“Law and The Citizen”. Here, in an
address broadcast as a national lecture in 1936, the author once more
justifies his calling in the eyes of
its hardest critics—the public. As
a prelude to the complete understanding of the nature of law and
its importance in a successful society, this lecture completes the
author’s argument in “The Ethics

_ of Advocacy”.

Politics has been described as the
last resort of a dishonest lawyer,
and it is to dispel this notion, and
to clarify the relation of the judiciary to the representative side of
government that Lord Macmillan
has included “Law and Politics” in

his book. The reader will receive

the impression that the author is
writing of politics as they should be
rather than as they are. In fact,
the modern cynic will disagree with
the author that politics is capable

of such a noble role in life, but the}.

thinking citizen must be interested
in politics, not as a “blind free
fight”, but “in the sense of the science of associated humanity.” Lord
Macmillan concludes his lecture with
the uncomfortable feeling that “he
has stirred far more questions than
he has answers.” Most readers will
probably agree that to stir honest
questions in such a field is a service

_ in itself and needs no apology.
_.. More need not be said concerning

more to his liking, he will not be

essays, except to add that if the
er finds literature and history

 

disappointed in the lectures, “Law
and History”, “Law and Religion”,
and “Law and Letters”, “Two Ways
of Thinking” is particularly recommended, as an authoritative discourse on the different approach to
law by civil lawyers and common
lawyers. There is also a lengthy
chapter on Lord Birkenhead, well
known himself as an historian and
lawyer. In publishing this book the
distinguished author has made avyailable to the public a most valuable
selection of observations, which
make profitable reading for anyone,
but more especially for the student.
J. B. M.

INTERFACULTY
Law, 9; Freshmen, 0

Law scored their second win in
Interfaculty football, beating freshmen three tries to none. Law fielded
a full team of fifteen while the
freshmen were short-handed. With
this handicap the freshmen were
never in it but were outplayed the
whole game. For the lawyers, Babe
Stewart scored two tries and Trites
one. Law, with two victories and

aves

 

CAPITAL CLOSE-UP—

(Continued from page 1)
believes any plan for coping with
surplus farm crops must be supplemented by an agreement among the
nations of the world for an equitable division of the world market.

Many government farm experts
believe in such crop quotas, and by
the time the subject comes up for
debate in the house there probably
will be a strong group who will support international quota agreements
and even direct subsidies to western
farmers.

There is a possibility of a storm
being raised by Ontario members
because Ontario farmers are not
being given the opportunity to sell
their wheat to the wheat board at
the fixed price. Both Premier Hepburn and Leopold Macaulay, Conservative leader in the Ontario legislature, have voiced their protest
and it likely will be echoed in parliament.

eve
CORRIDOR GOSSIP

Finance Minister Dunning is hopeful of returning to active political
life, but intimates indicate he won’t
take much part in the next session.
. . The King and Queen will not
prorogue Parliament, according to
Justice Minister Lapointe, who feels
that the legislators will all want to
be free from their parliamentary
duties when Their Majesties arrive
in Canada. ...A new unemployment insurance bill will be introduced next session, despite the opposition of several provinces. . .
The secession talk from the west.
promoted by the United Farmers of
Canada, Saskatchewan section, is
not taken seriously here and will
probably end where it began—with
the convention resolution. . . .Inauguration of the express service from
Montreal to Vancouver by TransCanada Air Lines is considered a
feather in the cap of Transport
Minister Howe, whose persistence
and capacity have led to TCA ac.
complishment.

—_——__

INTERMEDIATE GAME
Wanderers, 3; Cubs, 0

The Cubs lost their third straight
game, though each time they have
made a better showing than before.
Last Saturday they held off a far
more experienced Wanderers team
until the last few minutes, when a
try was scored against them, and
on two or three occasions almost
scored themselves. Of the Cubs,
freshman Dewar MacLeod looks like
a football player and will probably
develop into a capable back.

Line-up: Fullback, Gosse; threequarters, Murphy, MacDougall, MacWhidden, Rankine; halves, Mercer,
MacIntosh, MacLeod; forwards, MacGregor, Sinclair, Tupper, Anderson,
Vail, Murray, Hendry.

 

no defeats, is now at the head of the
standing.

ee) PRES 9 He HY

Dalhousie Outplayed by Wanderers

  

SS eteea arta eee
ery Y% ,

a. 1?

 

the goal line.

Wanderers, 15; Dal, 3

Dalhousie lost her second game |
of the season to Wanderers at Studley last Saturday by the score of
15-8, five tries to one. The Tigers
were unable to cope with the brilliant play of the Wanderers backfield that made all the opportunities
for scoring. Dalhousie hopes were
raised high early in the game on a
spectacular play by Syd Pauker.
Running at full speed Pauker leaped
high in the air to snatch a crossfield kick from the waiting Wanderers’ backs and continued in his

them with ease.

‘the play had been carried within
|Dalhousie’s twenty-five yard line.
None of the six attempts for goal
were successful but most of them
were from difficult angles. The
Tigers played right up to theWan
because they were not good enough
to win.

 
  

The second half was
completely dominated by the Wanderers’ backfield which ran through
the Dalhousie team consistently for
long gains and seemed to elude the
efforts of the Tigers and to tackle} tice being held last Tuesday night.| Geld they \aney (and seated,

Two more tries were scored after; with a definite purpose.

derers the whole game and only lost

The outstanding player for

October 28, 1938

  

D. A. A. C,
Meeting

     
     

Thursday noon
Chem. Theatre

 

of team practice. In spite of all
GIRLS’ SPORTS our efforts, once more in this half
Gitl’s basketball: got off to an| {0° ‘ast Edgehill forwards got the
early start this year, the first prac-| 2# and after a swift rush down

In the second half we suffered
om the loss of our captain and
|she intends to have an inter-class goalie, Phillis Hendry. She was a
lleague if enough girls, other than|’°% valuable part of the defence,
| last year’s team, turn out. The first | Baye cleared the ‘ball from the
| team will not be allowed to play in | Boal eaadly: Seed: SF Waa
the league. This plan gives a more | OF aces De ne ein ee aera
interesting basketball season to setehack. Our girls nee now dems
those people who do not wish to de- WOER (OS Ba Re BDeEe nae ane
vote that time and energy which is the; fast (pace,;and the opposing for
Miss Wray started basketball early
ris fr
This year

 

stride towards the goal line, stumbling the last few yards when he was
almost tackled by the fullback. This
try was the best play of the day.
The score was tied a few minutes
later when Andy Duffus, huge Wanderers’ forward went over on his
momentum alone. The lighter Dalhousie scrum were at this point
outheeling the Wanderers’ pack and
the Wanderers resorted to line-outs
when the ball, all too frequently,
went into touch. The Wanderers
scored twice more in the first half
Gordon Bauld going over when a
kick by Dalhousie on their own goal
line wasn’t cleared and Buckley
scored as he was being tackled

wards wer rs 8 ti ‘
necessary for first class players. s were able to score 3 times

Miss Wray will be able to give more
time to coaching these people than
she otherwise could. Also by this
method the first team will be able

Dalhousie was Syd Pauker with his
driving runs and hard tackling. For
the Wanderers: Mont, Ryde, and the
Bauld brothers.

 

Line-ups: | to practice together against the best
Dal. — Fullback, Haines; three- players of the interclass league.
quarters, Pauker, Corston,Fiendel, From now to Christmas there will

 

be at least one basketball practice
per week.

The upper classmen P. T. class

McNeil; halves, Ross, Eaton, Armstrong; forwards, Storey, Kerr, Phillips, Mitchell, Ballem, McKimmie,| ,
McDougall. will be held every Friday at 11
Wien davere Fullback, Spruin; o’clock. This class is for any girls
three-quarters, Black Ryde, Carson, | Other than freshettes, whether they
'Gordon Bauld; halves, Don Bauld, have taken gym before or not.
| Mont, Buckley; forwards, Wall, Tan- ae
ner, Ball, Holland, Duffus, Grant,
Just.

 

Edgehill Defeats Dal

|

The game showed that we have a
strong defence, but that the forward line needed more practice together. Of our forwards Dot MacKenzie and Peggy Gorham stood out
as having played an excellent game.
On the whole, however, our girls
were outclassed by the superior
team work of Edgehill.

A return match will be played on
the Dalhousie ground on Wednesday, November 9.

Those girls who played for Dalhousie are: Phillis Hendry (Capt.),
V. Harvey, M. Manning, B. Morse,
B. Thomas, R. Harrison, J. Morrison, D. MacKenzie, P. Gorham, M.

Referee—Doctor J. A. Noble.

@ COMMENT ON SPORTS @

Football: | Dalhousie, more than any other
Dalhousie is not yet definitely out team, seems to suffer losses by inof the running for the City league juries. Of the regulars Captain Kent

by three Tigers just after he crossed

 

_|echampionship. The Tigers can still. Irwin, Hutchins, Ideson and Kerr are

tie the Wanderers by winning their! out for the rest of the season; and

On Wednesday the Dalhousie girls’| Wood, M. MacIntosh, R. Milne, E.
hockey team played “Edgehill” at| Ryan, M. Parkes.
Windsor. The Edgehill team opened | j—
the attack and within three minutes of the first period had scored |
a goal. After this first rush our
girls settled down and played good,
| strong hockey, sometimes carrying |
the ball into the enemy’s territory.
The first half of the game showed

 

 

THOMAS WALLACE
SONS and DAUGHTERS
SIGHT SPECIALISTS
Eyes Tested — Glasses Made
“If You Want to See Well See Wallace’

HALIFAX

 

 

Y.M.C. A. BLDG,

 

Wedding Presents

Gifts selected from our Open Stock. Patterns of
China, Crystal, Stemware, Community Plate, ete., are sure

to please the Bride.

Webster Smith Co. Limited

Granville at Buckingham St.

 

    
     
     

LETTER CASES

can haye them made to their own specifications at

_ KELLYS LTD.

Granville Street

  

B-6962

*
ce Wee

    

remaining three games.

This leaves them in about the| sed one or more games.

same position the Cubs were after

they had lost three games to the! and Wanderers meet for the third
Yankees, but in football anything is! mtie at the

likely to happen. Last week the
Tigers did all they could but were
just out-played.

The main criticism against the
team has been directed towards their
weak tackling. Though this is well
grounded it must be taken into consideration what opposition they are

|up against. Every man on the Wan
derers half and three-quarter line
is dangerous. It would take a great
team to stop them. If Caledonia
beats them it will be because the
Wanderers forwards are below
standard.

Also, the Dalhousie backfield has
not been able to function since they
beat Acadia, for after that game the
key man of the backfield, Kent
Irwin at flying-half was lost. Since

then the line has been different |

every game owing to losses through
injuries.

 

 

Pauker, Corston and Ross have mis
This Saturday, Oct. 29, Dalhousie

 

 

| Wanderers grounds.
| She Tigers can at least make the
match interesting, as they did last

Welcome Back

 

Basketball practices have already
begun, and are held at six o’clock
Tuesday and Thursday nights and
‘one o’clock Saturdays. Though
league play does not begin until
after Christmas, practice will be
regularly held until three weeks be| fore examinations, by which time the
‘squads will have been picked.
Coach Charlie Steers has more en|thusiasm for the game than the
players themselves. He will again
rely on a passing attack and five
man defence. Manager Butch Lawson will try to enforce training and
‘regular attendance at practice.

BLAKELEY’S
The Best Place to Eat
43 SPRING GARDEN ROAD

 

WHEN YOU NEED:
DRUGS

|
|

 

 

MEDICINES

OR ANY OTHER DRUG MERCHANDISE
YOU GET BETTER SERVICE AND VALUE

at
Kinley’s Drug Stores

 

 

that we have some very good material and that what held us back NEW GAIET y |
and kept us from scoring was lack THEATRE

Thursday, Friday, Saturday

SHIRLEY TEMPLE in
“WEE WILLIE WINKIE”

and BUCK JON i
week; and the unexpected may hap- Meet Your “RIDE ’EM, COWBOY”
pen, as it has before. College Friends ®

at Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday
| Basketball:

“MISSING WITNESS”
with DICK PURCELL

And a Second Feature

Adults - 15c ‘ 30c

 

   
    
  
   

PRESCRIPTIONS

WE'RE IN SEW BUSINESS!

 

Wherever you see Tip Top Clothes they're giving a masterly performance. On the college campus they get cheers. In business
offices, clubs, restaurants, they get dignified applause. Like an
actor who’s grown up in show business and knows his stuff, we’ve
been in sew business for 28 years and an audience of over four
million buyers will tell you “Tip Top rates 4 Stars all the way”.
Why not catch the next performance? Order your reservation now!

$2495

HAND-CUT AND TAILORED TO YOUR PERSONAL MEASUREMENTS

TIP TOP
TAILORS

 
