 
   

————— SEE 
a

SS

SO SE ae
~

‘ame *

“ Pc " ma

  
     

VOL. LXXI

—_——_—__

 

al

 

HALIFAX, N.S., OCTOBER 21, 1938

ne

os) le

 

tl——— oo

Thursday
8.00 pm

 

 

No. 4

 

 

 

In The Law Courts

The fall session of the Supreme
Moot Court of Dalhousie held its
first sitting last Friday when their
Lordships Regan and Armstrong,
LL.J., and Milner, L.C.J., heard an
appeal from the decision of the
English Court of Appeal in the case
of Youssoupoff v. The Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Pictures, Ltd. Briefly,
the case concerned a scene in a motion picture called “Rasputin the
Mad Monk”, in which Rasputin, an
hypnotist, either ravished or seduced
a character called Princess Natasha,
who might reasonably be mistaken
for the plaintiff. There was some
doubt in their Lordships’ minds as
to whether the lady in the film had
been the victim of circumstances, or
whether the circumstances had been
of their own creation. This their
Lordships held to be the. real crux
of the case.

The question, to quote Lord Chief
Justice Milner, was, “Did she fall,
or was she pushed?” The court
held this to be a matter of fact for
the jury, and in spite of the urgent
pleas of Jim Currie, K.C., counsel

 

_ for the Royal plaintiff, the court
directed a new trial on grounds of

misdirection, and held that as a
matter of law, to say of a woman
id been raped was not

  

   

ided treatment of the question by

the judiciary will doubtless have far
flung social repercussions, but their
Lordships realized that the show
must go on.

Harry Housser, K.C., counsel for
the picture corporation, appeared at
most points in the hearing to be in
agreement with the Bench, but the
result of the decision is that a new
trial must be held, in which, in all
probability, with the proper direction as to the non-defamatory nature of statements charging women
with having been ravished, the decision will be reversed.

For some unknown reason which
their Lordships could not fathom,
the trial judge appeared to think
that the only difference between
rape and seduction was the more
subtle manner of approach applied in the second case. In this
their Lordships felt they could not
concur.

Some very flattering remarks concerning the ability of the Bench
were passed by the junior counsel,

LAW COURTS
(Continued on page 4)

FLASH!! FLASH!!

Calling all men!! Delta Gamma
Open Nights will commence tomorrow evening at Shirreff Hall. Special
music for dancing will be provided
by the Delta Gamma Social Committee which is headed by Margaret
Mack. Eligible to attend are any
Dalhousie woman student and escort,
or any Dalhousie man, with a nonmember of Delta Gamma, who is in
a party which includes Dalhousie
women students. Why don’t you
drop in after the show?

LAW

~_

 

 

 

y. This rather broad
 

Starting in a small way, without
much publicity, the Dalhousie Film
Society came into being last week.
The object of this Society is the
general one of bringing to the students films of general interest which
for one reason or another do not
appear at the local theatres. The
Society is at present purely an executive organization. Under the enthusiastic direction of Gordon Davidson and George Robertson, plans are
being worked out for the importation
of some foreign films and domestic
ones which have not been shown in
| Halifax.

While it is too early to make any
definite commitments with regard to
what particular films will be shown,
a few from which selections can be

Film Society Is Born

made include several of Dickens’
works in sound film, The Wandering
Jew, starring Conrad Veidt, and sevwith English

eral French films

titles. One French film in particular available is La Kermesse
Héroique, winner of the World

Prize at the Venice Exposition.
Several films directed by the skilful
hand of René Clair are obtainable.
German and Russian films, both
drama and musical are on the list.

_ The present plan is to organize a
large membership of interested students, charging a subscription fee of
one dollar. Everyone is advised to
watch the notice board for the time
and place of a general meeting of all
those students who are interested.
Further information may be obtained from the executive. Jim Milner is
President, Gordon Davidson Secretary-Treasurer, and George Robertson and Laurie O’Brien VicePresidents.

NOTICES
Players’ Guild:

There will be a meeting of the
Players’ Guild Tuesday evening,
7.30 p.m., in the Murray Homestead.
Refreshments, 10c. Dues, 5c.

Midlothian:

Midlothian will hold its first meeting at half-past four, on Monday afternoon, Oct. 24, at Shirreff Hall.

Delta Gamma
The meeting of Delta Gamma,

which was scheduled for Monday |

evening at Shirreff Hall, has been

postponed to next Thursday. On|

this occasion Miss Elizabeth Black| Wood, principal of Halifax Ladies’
| College, will give an adaress on
“Women in Life”, Miss Blackwood,
who is an active member of the
Dalhousie Alumnae, was a delegate
last year to the International Federation of University Women which
met in Poland. It is the aim of
the Delta Gamma executive to include an address from prominent
women speakers at each meeting.

 

Freshman Show

Rehearsals on stage for entire
cast on Tuesday and Wednesday
evenings, 7.30 sharp.

BALL

 

BEST WISHES

 

 

MEDS WIN INTERFACULTY TRAC

|
|

 

}

|
|

| Secretary in Malaya.
she explained, no racial

%

‘oe oe

MEET

*

Medicine again won the Inter-faculty track meet, taking
two first places, six second places, and five third places and

winning the relay race to score 38 points.

Law was second with

20 points, Engineers third with 18, Freshman had 13 points,
‘and Arts and Science one lone point.

 

 

Gertrude Owen Speaks

. An interesting account of life in
another land was given by Miss
Gertrude Owen on Tuesday at twelve
o’clock at the Arts building, when
she told of her work as Y.W.C.A.
There is, as
prejudice

| ligion.

|among the young Malayans. Chinese,
| Japanese, Europeans and English all
| go to school together in this land
which has welcomed any race or reAs children leave school
racial prejudices begin and it is the
difficult task of the Y.W.C.A. worker
to keep peace and harmony in the

community.

The Gazette extends its congratulations to Harry Sutherland, who |
on Saturday was married to Miss Elizabeth Ballem, and to Irving Pink, |
who on Wednesday was married to Miss Ruth Goodman. Both were for- |

mer editors of the Dalhousie Gazette.

Capital Closeup

By Ross Munro
C.U.P. Correspondent

Ottawa, Oct. 16.— The proposed
visit of the King and Queen to Canada next summer will have farreaching political implications which
will influence foreign policy and
possibly the government leadership.

Apart’ from spectacular receptions planned for Their Majesties
and the loyal enthusiasm that will
be engendered, it is believed by

many well-informed observers here |

that the occasion of the royal tour
will provide an opportunity for close
advisor of the British government
to determine at first hand the exact attitude of the Canadian government concerning Empire relations
which became a little obscure during the European crisis.
Considerable criticism has been
directed at Prime Minister Macken'zie King and his cabinet colleagues
for not assuring Britain that the

berlain policy. The Prime Minister’s
cautious attitude displayed throughout the crisis and his determination

sound.

But there are indications

 

particularly miilitary—will be the)
subject of many secret parleys. It |

| has been suggested that high British |

government officials are somewhat |
perturbed over the apparent coolness |

of Canada to any commitment on |

 

even the Empire issue.

It is notable that the national de- |
fence department is assisting the)
State and external affairs departments in drawing up plans for the
trip and aiding in the arrangements.

One of Canada’s best-known educationalists of a decade and a half.

 

Dominion fully supported the Cham- |

| that |
|during the visit of the monarch the |
position of Canada in the Empire— |

‘most influential positions

in the)!

|

government service, will direct the |

| plans for the visit. He is Dr. O. D.
|Skelton, under-secretary of state
for external affairs, former professor of political science and dean of
the ivaculty of Arts at Queen’s Univesitry. Since 1925 he has handled
all important foreign relations matters for both Conservative and Lib
eral governments and will play an| ly

important, if anonymous, part in

King and Queen in this country.
It is taken for granted here now
| that the federal election will not be

visit.

cess of the tour.

 

Mackenzie King will

 

cident on the June sojourn of the|

the behind-the-scenes discussions in- |

|
|

A growing feeling of Christianity |
is doing much towards uniting the |

people, and the state presents a

unique example of the facility with |
difficult |
| problems. English education is given

which consultation settles

. ‘in the schools through the missions
ago, who has risen to one of the |and the people have an extraordinary |
mos’ |
Many are |
very wealthy in this land where food |
sec. —1. James (Eng.);

aptitude in adopting the

modern of English habits.

and heat are not problems and where
the style of clothing remains the
same from year to year. Yet among
the women a great change is rapidly
taking place, for in a revolutionary

The outstanding individual performers were Norman MacRitchie
of Law with three first places, winning the javelin, discus and _ shot
put. Hubley of Engineers won both
the 100 and 220 yard dashes. Nonamaker of Medicine won the hifih
jump and was second in the broad
jump.

Prizes for the meet were presented by the T. Eaton Co., Phinney’s,
Sam Balcom and Roy Atwood. The
meet was competently run off by
the D.A.A.C. with the co-operation
of members of the faculty and Jack
Thomas.

Results:

100 yd. dash, time 103/5 sec.—
1. Hubley (Eng.); 2. Leith (Med);
Cantelope (Med.).

220 yd. dash, time 24 sec.—1l. Hubley (Eng.); 2. Leith (Med.); 3. Kinley (Freshman).

440 yd. dash, time 571/5 sec.—
1. Gilbert (Freshmen); 2. Mountain
(Eng.); 3. Hazen (Freshmen).

4% mile walk, time 4 min. 30 4/5
2. Foster
(Freshmen); 3. Grant (Arts and
Science).

440 yd. relay,
Medicine

time 54 see.—1.
(Cantelope, Nonamaker,

manner they are being freed from} Harrigan, Leith; 2. Freshmen; 38.

Mohammedan restrictions and quick- |
positions held |

learning to fill
previously by men.

LAW BALL

Freshmen and Freshettes, Sophomores and Sophettes, Juniors and |
held until next fall, due to the royal | Juniors, and Seniors galore .. .
The government appears to|here is your invitation to the most} Ritchie (Law); 2.
feel that nothing should be allowed| COLLOSAL EXTRAVAGANZA of! 3. Laidlaw (Med.).
to interfere with the complete suc-| the

school year. Next

For you

it is only a human vanity that he’ housie this is probably the one party

‘a difficult and acrimonious election.

should wish to be able to enjoy that | which can initiate you into the night
honour without first going through | life of the University, and as for

These, of course, are only a few

\that Parliament must decide the |considerations, but they all point to
issue of peace and war has_ been | an election after the royal party has
|generally accepted in the capital as| left the country.

There are many influential persons here who believe the visit will

be the crowning touch to the Prime

Minister’s public career extending
back over thirty years. In some
circles the belief is expressed that
Mr. Mackenzie King might remain

as Prime Minister and Liberal lead- |
er after the King and Queen’s visit |
and retire to private life or remain |
in the Commons as an elder states- |

man.

Minister three times and lead the
party since 1919. His health has

CAPITAL CLOSEUP
(Continued on page 4)

J. C. SADLER’S ORCHESTRA @ FRIDAY, OCTOBER 28th @

TICKETS ON SALE AT DAL STORE

 

the dance itself go and ask the nearest Soph about it, he’ll throw adjec- |
tives and ‘super collosals’ until you
are tired. And here’s a chance for
the ‘oldsters’ to get back into the
swing of things. She’s going to be
big, folks, really BIG.

Come on fellows, give the gals a
break, take them to this party of
parties and give them a chance to
sport the new evening gowns they |
are dying to show off. Girls, go!
after the men folks (Shall I git me |
gun)? and make them take you to|
this unforgettable spectacle of delir- |
ious happiness, gay faces, stunning |

| dresses, where the east is west and|
It would be a fitting climax for a
career which saw him become Prime |

 

the twains do meet. With decora- |
tions and novelties, snow balls, hats, |
marvellous eats and the best band |
in the city this party can’t miss.

|\SEE YOU THERE.
—Only a nominal fee. |

Nova Scotian Hotel

Friday, |

A personal ele-| October 28th, the really great LAW) 1.
/ment enters into the situation. Mr.| BALL will start its annual parade! Ritchie and Stewart (Law),. tied.
be the first| of swing at nine o’clock.
prime minister everto play host to|new comers, who haven’t as yet been
the King and Queen in Canada, and | introduced to dress parties at Dal-|

Law.

Discus throw, distance 107 ft. 6 in.
—l. MacRitchie (Law); 2. Ideson
(Med.); 3 Laidlaw.

Javelin throw, distance 152 feet,
2 in.—1. MacRitchie (Law); 2. Feindel (Med.); 3. Nonamaker (Med.).

Shot put, distance 47 ft.—1. MacIdeson (Med.);

High jump, height 5 ft., 1 in—
Nonamaker (Med.); 2. Mac
Broad jump, distance 20 ft. 6 in.

ee Cantelope (Med.); 2. Nonamaker (Med.); 3. Leith (Med.).

Standing
DICOINE fo S vesicle on 38 points
BY PS et Si Ate cA 20
BONNE, ie cies cg. Saw be Die healt 18
Presum@n 2... deceit. 13
Arts and Science.... 1
Individual
Machitenie ~~ 2444... 18 points
Nonamaker .......... 14
UTE ee. Fact ae Rtas 2 12
Cantelope ........... 11
SEUSS etaiee. o)5: Yeates 10

 

 
 

STUDENTS’ DIRECTORY

  
    
  
   

Will those students who have
not as yet listed their correct
addresses at the University Office,
please do so immediately—or the
appearance of the Directory on
the campus will be again delayed
this year.

 

 

9.00 P. M. -- 2.00 A. M.

TICKETS,

$3.50 PER COUPLE

 
    
    
    
  
        
   
   

Beatl
TA

es i

Kane
egg

9k

GAZETTE STAFF

 

«Editor: BERNARD GRAHAM B-5033
News Editor: WALTER MURPHY B-5191
s Sports Editor: DOUGLAS LYALL B-2607
= Business Manager: SIDNEY A. GILLIES B-5487

Fos
+ mS Ef
ais a
a

: "Associates: Barbara Murray, Marjorie McLean, Gordon Hiseler

 

GERMANY, FASCISM AND EUROPE
(Contributed)

_ --'The flood of fascism is rising in Europe. The betrayal of

the Czech people breached the last dikes of democracy and}
_—s peace. ~The remnant of Czechoslovakia is forced into the
German sphere of economic domination. Political domination
Re by Germany inevitably follows. According to news reports
during the past week, pro-Nazi governments are being set up
in the autonomous districts, and Praha is seeking a rapproch~~ ‘ment with Berlin. One by one the other countries of Eastern
and Southeastern Europe are rejecting the dangerous friend__ ghip of the Western democracies and are attaching themselves
_ to the Rome-Berlin axis. Greece has already become a satelite
of the Reich, and a Nazi “adviser” is stationed at Athens. The
___ eapitulation of Rumania, Jugoslavia and Turkey is a matter of
- ashort time. In France and Britain too the swing to the Right |
is becoming more and more apparent. Public opinion is over__. ridden, the press and radio muzzled The forces of Labour and

Socialism appear to be demoralized.

These developments assure the doom of the Four Power
Pact and, with it, the ultimate purpose of British foreign policy.
That purpose has been the organization of a bloc of fascist and
 gemi-fascist states in Western Europe, with the power of Ger‘many and France balanced under British hegemony. Fascism
has been strengthened, but the destruction of Czechoslovakia

has isolated France and reduced it to the status of a second
_ ¢lass power. Consequently, Britain itself is isolated and weakened, and the leadership of Europe has passed to Hitler.

It is probable, therefore, that the fascist offensive will take
a different direction from that planned by the rulers of Britain.
__ Instead of advancing to the conquest of the U.S. S. R., Hitler,
--— as_-recent events indicate will drive towards the near and

+ middle East. Or, in the event of disorder and civil war. in
__ France, he may take a hand there, in accordance with the new
_ -‘$panish custom. In either case, conflict with Britain is certain.

The old pre-1914 struggle between Germany and Britain for the
ar fe spoils of empire re-emerges. Hitler’s recent demand for
-__ eolonies is significant in this regard. It is because the Cham
in policy of appeasing the tiger threatens to end in the
keeper that Churchill, Eden, Duff Cooper and
tive ranks are so bitterly opposed

an menace, Britain is rearming on a huge

4

 

 
  
   
  
    
  
  
 
  
  
  
   
    
  
    
     
 
 
     

  
   
 
 
 
 
   
  

 
    

  
 
     
   
  

proceeding to strengthen the “bonds of Empire”.

‘oadcasting and the film industries are being geared

Into | emely efficient British p ropaganda machine. The
_ forthcoming visit of the Royal Family is, of course, totally un
 

ee | ~ FRATERNITIES
| Just at this time, an annual problem presents itself to a
number of men and women students on the campus. It is,
__ “What fraternity shall I join?” The question is not one to be
answered lightly, but demands serious consideration if the
____- prospective member is to get the most out of his college and
__ fraternity life. It is of no value to join a particular fraternity
beeause it is “the thing to do”, or because a member has said
that his fraternity is “tops” or has the best parties. A fra___ternity, if it means anything, has more than material values to
ees present to its members. Its strength lies not in the richness of
bay its history, nor in its campus standing, but in the true and
ee ee lasting friendships it offers. And to obtain the real concep| ____ tion, a member must determine to give of his best, not only to
__his fraternity but primarily to his college.

a |

pee STUDENTS’ COUNCIL

KF

   
  
  
  
    
  
  
  
 
  
     
   
   
   
  
    
  
    
 
    
    
   
  
  
  
  
  

 

% oo ; Every year the students of the University elect a represen| -— tative body of fellow students to spend the ten dollars that each
ies student must pay as his contribution towards extra-curricular
_-—sC aettivities. This amounts to some eight thousand dollars that is
cate to be spent, presumably for student welfare. How that money
se is to be spent, few students seem to care. Most of them think
____ that casting a vote has released them from all necessity for

—.e

_ thinking further about that matter. Which, of course, is ab.  surd. The student body owns the money, and they should
Ben ss ndicate in a rational way how they want that money to be spent.
_____ Many students labour under the delusion that they do think on

_ the matter. Everybody knows the type. They say that Glee

ah

Es

*§ea
= -Th

>

©
4

_ up to St. F. X., that a roof should be built on the grandstand,

oats that all sorts of things, organizations and people should receive
E Boy _ @ larger percentage of the money taken in every year. But
that is as far as their interest goes. They like to talk.

__ Such students will never study the problem of the dis____ tribution of their money with any degree of seriousness or
rence intelligence. To see the situation as a whole apparently reee aa a type of mind that is definitely not theirs. With such

eae students we can hope to do nothing. But there are other
students on the campus who might be persuaded to consider
the problem of distribution more seriously. And for them, the

chief difficulty is to know where to begin. We can suggest no

+

i
a

zo

      
    
 
   

a a.

___ better place than on the field of battle itself—at the Students’
fates uncil meetings. It is there better than anywhere else that
_- one can see the workings of the executive machinery. It is
Wis St there that one realizes the difficulty of apportioning money to
Wee ee various societies, And realizing it, a beginning is made.

i
ai J a
ee

Club needs more money, that the football team should be sent |

 

2.cHOUSIE GAZETTE

Obiter

With a feeling that I’ve been fooling around long enough, I have at
last: determined to write this stuff
and send it to our esteemed editor.
It is of course conventional even at
this late date to welcome the new
students, including the Frosh. Therefore I welcome them, and I wish
them bon voyage. At the same time
I am constrained to add my sympathy for those who wore aprons. I
recall that a few years ago Professor Bennet would not let bad Freshmen wear such things in his class.
The aforesaid professor has an excellent aesthetic sense, and I trust
he has not lost it. Still, the aprons
did look quick ducky. Maybe you
think I should offer some advice to
the Frosh. I will not.
they see last year’s Gazette in which
I did offer such advice. I am a year
older now, and you will find dear
Frosh, that as we grow older we are
less inclined to give advice. Free,
I mean, of course. No lawyer would
refuse to give advice for a fee, even
if the advice was only that he did
not know, as is usually the case).

 

Glee Clubs and Dances

The Glee Club executive adopted
a most naive method of persuading
the Council to give them more
money. What little experience I
have had with the Council has convinced me that it will take more
than the mere vox populi to loosen
them. And yet, I can name six very
excellent reasons why they should
grant this additional money. The

ENE

LETTERS TO

Editor, The Dalhousie Gazette:
Dear Sirs, — When the Gazette
drama critic made his debut in these
columns last year, it was to criticize a number of actors most severely. This year he is apparently
changing his tactics by turning to
criticize the audience in the same
uncompromising fashion. There are

I suggest |

October 21, 1938

 

a

first reasoh and the most obvious is
that the Glee Club is the most
widely patronized by the students,
of all societies sponsored by the
Council. The second reason, like the
first, is also very obvious. It is that
the Glee Club is the most. popular
and widely patronized of all the
Council societies. The third reason
I am afraid is also quite obvious. It
is much the same as one and two.
The fourth, fifth, and sixth reasons
may be stated summarily as being,
the Glee Club is the society most
widely patronized by the students.
You see, don’t you, that I could, if
required, state twelve reasons why
| the Council should grant that money,
and possibly even thirteen, only
thirteen is an unlucky number, and |
_I don’t want to get the Glee Club in |
wrong with the high and mighty. |

Touching on the second question
on the ballot, (which by the way I|
filled in and dropped in the box, did.
you?) as to the continuation of |
dancing after Glee Club shows, after |
I calm down enough, I would ask |
the executive if they think the wide |
patronage would continue if there |
| were no dance? Not that A Murder
|Has Been Arranged was not a fine
_show, because it was. In places it |
‘may have been just a little difficult |
| to follow owing chiefly to the poor)
_acoustics of the gymnasium, which
for the present may be left undis-|
| cussed, but on the whole, and allow- |
‘ing for a rather unsympathetic |
| audience at times, it was a fine pro| duction, for students of almost)
everything but art. But with no
'dance to follow, in all truth, hope |
does spring eternal, doesn’t it? |

 

“| just can't stop humming ‘Oh Ma Ma, get that man for me’”’
“Why, does he smoke Sweet Caps ?”

SWEET CAPORAL CIGARETTES

“The purest form in which tobacco can be smoked.”

   
 
    
     

 

Shaves - Hair Cuts - Shines
“Good Service”
A. PUBLICOVER

LORD NELSON HOTEL
BARBER SHOP

Your Meeting Place

Good Food
Good Service
Good Atmosphere

Insist on Getting
Donovan’s Beverages
15 - Different Flavors - 15

W. H. DONOVAN
45 GRANVILLE ST. _B-6821

Dook’s Tea Room

Limited
CAPITOL THEATRE BLDG.

Confectionery
Lunches - Tobaccos

 

 

 

 

LA TRY |

THEY SAY

To The Class

THE EDITOR |
Eee of 42
/and only show bad breeding on the | WE SERVE
‘part of the individuals concerned. Th R Milk nen. it ag pene for
Believe it or not there were some 1 choosing’ e class pin,
people in the audience who actually e est make it easy for the comwanted to hear the play and had the Shakes in Town mittee by telling them to

play not been so outstanding and the
acting so well done the actions of
the audience may have been partially
called for.

go to Birks.

Years of experience and
expert craftsmanship assure a satisfactory result.

Have You tried them?

 

a number of things to explain the
actions of the Glee Club audience of
October 7th. If the Halifax Theatre
Arts Guild presents a play, many
students attend and give it its due
appreciation. The same _ students

‘probably were at Dalhousie’s pres
entation of “A Murder Has Been
Arranged”, but under totally different circumstances. The required
atmosphere of the play should have
been established at the parting of
the curtain on the first act, but
precious moments were lost as the
overhead fans whirred, while ushers
and the usual late-comers shoved
the movable chairs to get to their
seats.

Anyone familiar with the acoustics of the gym knows that if the
proverbial pin is dropped it sounds

like a ton weight, and so when an |

innocent student moved his chair to
see the stage a general hubbub ensued for many seconds. Not being
a psychologist, I cannot say whether
it is moronic to move a chair, but
a play so dependent on atmosphere
should not be presented in a gymnasium without an elevated floor or
immovable chairs.

To those who were attempting to
appreciate the play this moving of
chairs caused so much annoyance
that it relieved one’s temper to get
some enjoyment out of the stealthy

actions of Mullins or the mortal |

writhings of Sir Charles. In the
past, Dalhousie Glee Club audiences
have clearly shown that they enjoy
musical productions and light comedy simply because these are suited
to the Gymnasium facilities. I am
convinced that “A Murder Has Been
Arranged” would have been sufficiently appreciated by the same audience had it been presented in a
suitable auditorium.
PRO-AUDIENCE.

Editor, Dalhousie Gazette,

Dear Sir,—May I express my approval of the Dramatic critie’s article
re the audience at the presentation
of “A Murder Has Been Arranged.”

When one has the opportunity of
seeing a play so well acted, the least
one can and should do is give the
cast every chance. The movement
of chairs and shuffling of feet was a
minor detail. Such'things as booing,
shouting, hissing are extremely rude

The fact remains that if you as
an individual have no pride’ for
yourself at least think of your university and it name. When the next
Glee Club Show is presented, let it
not be said at the corner of streets,
that the Dalhousie student body is
unappreciative of its fellow workers’
efforts. Remember the slogan “Play
up and play the game”.

Thanking you,
I remain,

A torch bearer of the proper kind

of school spirit.

Fader’s
SNACK BAR

23 COBURG ROAD

HENRY BIRKS AND
SONS LIMITED

Diamond Merchants
Halifax, N. S.

 

 

 

 

 

     
    
 

       
       
     
   
   
     
     

————————

- The Finest
Sporting Goods ©

and

MUSICAL SUPPLIES

May Be Obtained at
PHINNEY’S

It’s a Pleasure

You'll find this a pleasant place to dine, lunch
or quench your thirst,

and the prices are reasonable.

Dalhousie Gazette,
Dear Frosh:

Now that the Freshie-Soph dance
is over and the captains and the
kings have departed, I should like
to unburden myself upon the subject of initiation. Before I begin,
| however, I should like to make it
clear that I have no axe to grind
personally. As a matter of fact ’m
a Senior and it’s really none of my
business.

Nevertheless, you Frosh are going
to be the Sophomores of next year
and I should like to point out a few
things which you may have overlooked. Did you ever gaze at yourself in the mirror while wearing
that green beret? It was a ee
able sight. wasn’t it? And what,|
off hand, do you think was gained by |
submitting, not only the students,
but also the citizens of Halifax, to
it for two weeks? The net effect,
I’m afraid, was that people said,|
“These children must have their
fun.” Well, Dalhousie has been try- |
ing to impress the people of Nova!
Scotia for a century now with the|
value of a university education: If |
the students are going to persist in|
doing childish things it more or less |
stymies the university, doesn’t it? |

It just happens to be green berets |
this year, but can’t you see that|
anything like that is pretty useless? |
I admit that the money you pay for |
them helps balance the Soph. budget, but is this really necessary or
‘fair?

Placques would give the Frosh of
next year plenty of distinction as
well as serving a more practical use.
And besides this, they would only
be worn on the campus.

Well, Class 42, what do you think?

Your most resp’ful servant,
f° Hi.

Llianey,

| 456-460 Barrington St.

The

Green Lantern
407-409 Barrington St.

 

 

 

 

Great F all Feature!
EATON Made-to-Measure Men's Suits

With Two Pairs of Trousers.

Hand cut and finished to your individual requirements.

26.00

$24.50—with one pair of trousers

With 2 pairs
of Trousers

 

Meeting with unprecedented enthusiasm
EATON’S great Fall offer is making hosts of
new friends among the thrift-conscious, welldressed men. Drop in to EATON’S Men’s
Wear Department and choose from the new
woollen fabrics. Suits will be made to your
individual measurements.

XT. EATON CO

MARITIMES LIMITED

EZz£z

 

 

 

 

 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
   
  
  
    
  
    
   
   
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  
   
  
  
    

his plaid looked, hee I real‘there was some ulterior motive
his unrelenting smile. I coughed
and continued on my way with
at veritable feeling of goodwill
men, which usually only
scends on one near Christmas.
, ety I began to wonder if I had
really eaten enough for breakfast,
and wouldn’t it have been a better
seins to have taken the apple that
was offered, instead of gaily waving it aside. By the time I reached
the next corner, I was so hungry
from thinking about it, that I
Fs % y stopped again and bought an apple
- from a very well brushed and poloe Piahed Wolf Cub.
, r : What happened next I’ll never be
able to explain reasonably. All I
- kmow is, that after eating my apple
‘. a, with relish, I began to shop. I
oo bought a lot of things I needed, and
- gome which I didn’t, but the prices
_ were so intriguing that morning
that ... in fact, there was an awPs itetty smart collar and cuff set, just
g Ls slightly shopworn, that would go

a 3.

    
       
        
        
     
        
       
    
   
    
   
  
 
   
   
  
   
  
 
 
 
 
   
   
    
 
   
  
 
  
  
   
  
 
  
  
   
  
   
  
   
   
 
  

with almost any dress I might buy,
and you'll have no idea how much
I paid for it! But I’m getting away
from the point. By the time I was
finished, I had quite a few bulky
om, parcels and just enough money for
- earfare home. So I, unsuspecting,
7S stepped to a corner to wait for the
. _ street ear. A most determined
-__ Seout bore down on me and I quickily grabbed the lapel of my coat to
BS show him how fruitless (good
_— word!) his task was going to be.
ee my horror, when I looked down
tag had gone, and it was too
an os ate, to AECApE:
7 fourntfv De I watched my care 1e slot of the money
I jacked up my skirt

a

a Let

  

  

  

7

  

  

  
 
 

ee fon “hag Gece ehicaes Serle 95c.
oe cae you're looking for a si to

2 all ‘the things you want to ae
don't choose “Point Counter Point”.
al it _ It’s a book which makes you sit up
= and think and reason until you feel
ve: the foundations, on which most of
a o _ your inherited beliefs are built,
_ shaking if not tottering. When one
Bt tries to explain how Huxley did
ay _ this, one gets hopelessly involved.
A brief sketch of the plan of the
2 _ book might help.
Huxley has attempted “the musiSE esinstion of fiction’. That is, he
has presented three themes. These
_ themes are concerned with love,
_ death, and religion, and are woven
in together throughout the book.
+The amount of situations covered
naturally requires many characters
_ of quite diverse temperaments. The
% a= these people express are
os _ planned to give you the key to their
character. The dramatis personae of
the book, taken together, are a very
ee ven collection, but are not
quite real. This is perhaps because
Be heir ideas are so very neatly forEe i ‘mulated and they know so exactly
_ what they think. In real life we
a ;
might find an occasional person like
_ this, but I don’t think we should
- find a whole group of them.
Now perhaps we might get down
to the reactionary ideas which are
a responsible for the life of this book.
“Huxley attacks most of the concepts
which we’re accustomed to regard
as admirable. He holds not only the
as _ Christian religion up to ridicule, but
. as also all our romantie illusions about
ee ~ Tove. He does this in such a convineing and clever way that it dés: _troys for you, temporarily at least,
RS. 2 idealism you might have had.
But the book doesn’t consist of
destructive criticism alone. Through

—_

i om

oe ‘ eee = ae

”

— character of Rampion (modeled |

lee ie

eS

admirers remark to his idol, “She
was a tough ’un”. His answer was
drowned out by the roar of my

.| street car which sailed by just then.

My thoughts at that point were unutterable, but now that I have
calmed down a little I see no rea
}son why I shouldn’t have an hon
orary position in the Boy Scouts’
Association as their friend and
benefactor. In fact I intend to
write Lord Baden-Powell about the
matter tomorrow.

 

On Driving Behind People.

I speak to you as an expert. I
have driven behind people, in front
of people, around people, and beside
people, and I still hold there is no
way of telling what the driver or
drivers (this refers to that helpful
person in the back seat) intend to
do.

In England, they have formulated
a series of signs one can make out
the window with one’s hand. In

Halifax, they have grasped the es
sential idea. They put their hand out
the window alright, but as far as
the person behind them is concerned it can mean anything from “I’m
turning left (or right!) at this intersection” to “H’ya, Toots!”

Stop signs are the crucial test.| °°

We have many varieties of stoppers. There’s the careful driver
who stops so thoroughly that he
stalls his engine. There’s the casual
stopper who shifts into second for
the convention of the thing. (The
devil take the pedestrian who’s
caught half-way across the street
when he comes along).

Then there’s the conversationalist | °°

who says, “By the way, I think we
went through a. stop-sign somewhere back there —anyway, Mary,
what were you saying about Jane?”

But maybe I’m. being too hard.
After all I do the same thing myself, and know how hard it is to
think of the man behind all the

time. I do think, however, everyone

should be prepared for this sort of
treatment. As the man on the lawnmower ‘says, “Ignore ‘the | -speedo
iat

of the Seo I oe pibier: if ons Pc ne seat your

sot

s, after Huxley’s friend, D. H. Law
rence,) he presents his solution for
It is interesting to note that Ramliving a full life in modern times.
pion is the only rounded and wellbalanced character in the _ book.
Rampion believes that one should
do one’s job mechanically and concentrate on being a human being
when the job is finished. “If you
believe in business as service and
the sanctity of labour, you’ll merely
turn yourself into a mechanical idiot
for twenty-four hours out of the
twenty-four.

Admit it’s dirty, hold your nose,
and do it for eight hours, and then
concentrate on being a human being
in your leisure. A real human being; not a newspaper reader, not a
jazzer, not a radio fan! This is his
solution because he believes that industrialism is slowly choking the
human race.

The governments of the world are
“fighting to decide whether we shall
go to hell by communist express
train or capitalist racing motor car;
by individualist bus or collectivist
team running on the rails of state
control. The destination’s the same
in every case.” ,.. “The question
for the man of sense is: Do we or
de we not want to go to hell? And
the answer is: No, we don’t. And if
that’s his answer, then he won’t
have anything to do with politicians.”

Philip Quarles, an author, also holds
a prominent place in the book as a
propounder of ideas. He also demonstrates Huxley’s downright, somewhat exaggerated manners when
airing his views. Quarles says that
“it’s obvious that excessive development of the purely mental functions
leads to atrophy of all the rest.
Hence thé notorious infantility of
professors and the ludicrous simplicity of the solutions they offer
for the problems of life. The same

 

"What Goes On

Hitler. ik aka ea venks on won
another World Series . ... and the
opposition gave it to them. America
now turns to football and hockey
while Europe plays at other games

. The German push eastward will
of course continue unless a drastic
change takes place, the rest of
Czecho-Slovakia will be swallowed
up by the advancing Reich... .
Yugoslavia appears to be turning
Fascist. German political penetration appears to be following the
economic penetration of Dr. Schacht,
who saved Germany from economic
collapse.

Czecho-Slovakia and the Sudetenland bring a question to the fore. ..
Is self-determination and freedom
from foreign oppression so very important, or is it merely another
foolish belief in this world of modern
machinery controlled by minds living
in feudal times? Are we to believe
that some magical change took place
in Sudetenland when it was ceded to
Germany ? To get down to
fundamentals ... what actual benefit will acrue to Hans Schmitt and
family because of the change? Will
he have better wages, more food and
clothing and will his children get a
better education Or are the blessings of Nazi rule more important?
. Many questions ... you figure
the answers. Canada may have to
face such questions some day...

Sporadic fighting continues in
Spain... both sides are sending
volunteers home. Franco won’t miss
the Italians ... they proved rotten
soldiers. Scarcity of food in Government Spain has forced the withdrawal of the International Brigades
. The improved government militia after forcing a stalemate is now
on the offensive. Franco may yet
be defeated but the probable result
will be a divided Spain.

Japan has not yet captured Hankow ... Japan may win the war
and then be assimilated by the huge
mass of China ... From the ashes
of this war may rise a new China
with some of the ruthless efficiency
(so-called) of the little yellow men
of Japan. We in the West, with our
habit of going nowhere in a hurry,
need the calm and dignified culture
of China .. . beside them we are

| really berbariann and yet we think
| we are civilized . .. but enough of

this lecture, my friends.

Most newspapers seem to treat the
Munich settlement as a new departure in diplomatic selfishness . . .
don’t forget that diplomacy is a

game for men without hearts or)

souls ... so it should be . . .get
your opponent before he gets you or
you'll write your memoirs a little
earlier than usual.

Canada seemed to swing toward
the U.S.A. in the last few weeks.
Downing Street got wind of this .
hence the visit of the King and
Queen next summer. We’ll probably
be dragged into the next war as a
climax to the stupid blunders of
British and French politicians .. .
United States annexation or at least

a common foreign policy would be |

preferable. ... we are an American
nation ... Let us face that fact.
Well, here are my ramblings.

Most of you will skip this column
or perhaps read the first line. . .
(To those who liked this ramble) I
say: “Glad to meet you”.

I'll be back...

 

is true of the specialists in spirituality. The profound silliness of
saintly people; their childishness.”

But beware of accepting this book
wholesale, I thinks that Huxley’s intention was to present a picture of
that section of human society with
which he was familiar and to suggest remedies. His line of representation and reasoning, however,
are perhaps apt to destroy too many
of those fundamental principles upon which modern civilization has
been built. You will notice that
none of the characters of this book,
with the exception of Rampion, are
really happy, normal people. They
have succeeded in freeing themselves from traditional attitudes of
the mind but they haven’t been able
to substitute anything better.

Nevertheless, here is a book you
can sink your teeth into. We recommend it for that reason.

M. E. P.

 

‘| perfect

>| wise.

 

"DALHOUSIE « GAZETTE

~ SOCIETIES

THE ROUN D ND TABLE CLUB

The: Round Table Club of -Dalhousie University is affiliated with
the International Relations Clubs
which are established at nearly all
the universities of the United States
and Canada. Through this affiliation it receives the support of the
Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, which makes available
to its members a special selection of
recent books of importance. The
Club now possesses quite an extensive library.

The membership of the Club is
drawn from all the faculties of the
University, but is restricted to three
or four professors and approximately fifteen students. Several
new members will be elected shortly.

Meetings of the Club are held
fortnightly, and take the form of a
discussion based upon a paper presented by one of the members—on
any question of public interest—
Hours of great argument, amidst a
deepening haze of tobacco smoke,
anon refreshments and _ perhaps
music—that is the Round Table Club.

THE EFFECTIVE SPEAKING
CLUB

The aim and purpose of this club
is to promote effective public speaking among the students of Dalhousie. It was founded some seven
years ago and has been most active
ever since. The club, while its membership is nominally limited to 30
members, is open to all interested
students, both male and female,
from any faculty of the University.
Meetings are held in the Law School,
Forrest Building, on alternate
Wednesday evenings before Christmas, and after Christmas every
Wednesday evening for a further
period of six to eight weeks.

At each meeting eyery member
speaks for four or five minutes on one
of two subjects that have been previously announced by notices posted
on the student notice boards. These
subjects are of a varied nature, the
affirmative or negative of some topic
of debate, the proposing of a toast,
perhaps to the University, or a subject lending itself to general discussion. This calls for a certain amount

of preparation before the meeting

by each member on the subject on
which he has decided to speak,
~The club has the kind services of

Professor George Curtis of the Law

School to assist it in its meetings.
His courteous and constructive criticism of each member’s treatment of
his subject provides a tremendous
incentive for improvement. Professor Curtis also discusses on occasions
various phases of public speaking
which are within the scope of the
club’s activities.

It will thus be seen that the Club
offers students an opportunity to
themselves in platform
speaking in the midst of a friendly,
informal atmosphere.

Our Hattie

by PATTER

 

About that Freshie-Soph m’dears

. Our Hattie certainly got her
self pulled to pieces. We hope none
of you sweet young things did likeYou see, her telephone number on her placard (in big red
letters) brought her two dates which
she accepted . .. may we repeat,

(accepted both. “Ah,” said her
'swains “a double-dating low-down
trick!” So she came in the street

ear all by herself as she was determined not to waste her Free Ticket.

| She was wearing her best dress, her
first (and we hope last long or-|

gandy). The sales lady told her it
was a glorious pink illusion. We|
thought so too ($3.95 worth any-|

Way).

Hattie is anxious to get into the
freshman show.
she has a fairy costume and they
might let her dance a bit, especially
as she scored her record of three
times on the floor at the FreshieSoph.

The Law Ball is coming off in
days to come but Hattie is worried
already and threatens to keep her
placard on. We hastily found a
likely goon to escort the lady. His
generous (?) sacrifice is going to a
worthy cause, at any rate, but Hattie says she smells blackmail.

 

‘former heart thrbs?

 

After all, she says |

 

  

Dear Miss Spry:

This being my last year at college,
I decided it was high time for me
to take unto myself a “steady”, but
alas, I have just discovered they are
extremely difficult things to hang
onto.

When you consider the fact that
my latest catch is a Med. student,
that he has simply scads of money,
and owns the dee-vinest new Packard (with radio), you will readily
understand why I am so anxious to
hold on to him, But he is making
things so hard for me, Miss Spry.

I had the good sense to confine
myself to Arts, which, of course, requires no study, and leaves me with
all my nights free. But duckyMedicine is oh, so frightfully diffiwucky tells me that Third year |
cult. That means that the dear boy
can only take me out six nights a
week. The other night—can I take)
in a movie or truck on down to one
of our sprightly hops with one of my |
Not on your!
I’m to sit at home, in true|

 

 

life!

| Victorian fashion, and read, study, |

or do something equally

Miss Spry, I do love him, or, at |
least I love his bank book, which,
after all, amounts to the same thing.
But I simply cannot spend one night
a week, one seventh of my college
year, walking the studious cloisters
pale.
my reputation.

What do you advise, Miss Spry?

 

Advice to the Lovelorn

Think of what it would do to!

 

Should I attach myself to another,
and less desirable specimen of humanity — say a budding engineer,
commerce student, or even a sprouting lawyer, and retain a reputation
which is so dear to me, or should I
hang on to my Third Year, and-die
a lingering death one night a week?

Please answer me before next
Monday night, Miss Spry, as I am
in doubt as to what arrangements to
make for that night.

Thank you,
WORRIED SENIOR.

 

Dear “Worried Senior’:

My dear, how your letter surprised
me! How times must have changed! Your problem is whether to
retain your man or your reputation.
In my days girls had little difficulty
retaining both.

By all means my dear, hold on to
your Med student—the alternative
you suggest is entirely out of the
question. Undesirable as are engineers or commerce students — the
thought of marrying (and I’m sure
you must be thinking of that, all
girls do, you know,) a lawyer is
entirely too appalling. Lawyers are
so dreadfully clever, and so distressingly capable of seeing through the
subtlest bit of female strategy,
whereas doctors are so beautifully
simple. Besides, having a lawyer
for a husband gives you so little

| prestige, and you know how doctors’

wives get asked to the best places.

Now that we’ve decided that it
would, in the end, be much more to
your advantage to keep the med.
student, let’s see what we’re going
to do about this one-night-a-week

| affair.

Why not use a little maidenly cunning to solve the problem? Surely
when your steady can’t take you out,
you could arrange to attend some
function which medical students
don’t frequent, such as law balls, ete.
My standby for years has been that
old saying: “Ignorance is bliss.”
True, I have heard vague rumors
about honesty being the best policy,
but, if good policies have one thing
in common, it’s that they don’t seem
to get you places.

So good luck to you, and do be
careful just where you spend that
other night.

Sincerely,
SALLY SPRY.

Write your troubles to Sally Spry,
care of the Gazette. Years of experience have taught her how to deal
wisely and sympathetically with the
problems of youth.

 

Gleanings

 

GLEANINGS—

A controversy is being waged at
Queen’s University over the wearing of silk stockings by Queen’s coeds. Two rather indignant women
students recently penned a letter to
the editor of the Queen’s Journal in
which they urged that all co-eds at
the University wear Canadian lisle
stockings instead of Japanese silk
hose. This, they say, would aid in
ending the Sino-Japanese war. The
letter has been subject to much criticism, both serious and humorous, in
later issues of the college paper.

We doubt that co-eds at Dalhousie
would be very enthusiastic over a
Japanese boycott of this sort as
female lower limbs certainly do not
look their best “shorn of the silk
 
 
  
   
 
 
   
 

}

FRENCH

worm’s excrement and clad in the! all breathe easily—McGill Daily.

WY RICH, DARK, FRENCH

BN CiCnT ce

Ue)

ne a es ea 
Ba-ba’s underwear” as the Journal
puts it. If such a radical change
did take place, however, probably
most of our co-eds would have good
reason to go about mumbling these
lines which appeared in the University of Alberta Gateway under the
title of “The Blues Bilingual”:

Tous les soirs

Quand c’est noir

I gaze at the lighted ville.

Je regarde les étoiles

Et pense, “Oh how foul

Is the life of an unknown fille.”

Anyhow, here’s to silk stockings

and more of them!

Headlines over an‘ Associated
Press story: “Geniuses Held Not
Subject to Insanity.” Now we can

J

  

Y- = ;
} yy
Sf ~

   

a y

STYLE CHOCOLATE
PACKED WITH CRISP,
CRUNCHY ALMONDS

CHOCOLATE

 

 
  

Py ae

4

cr

| For The Sie

To-Morrow

TENNIS TEAM
Back Row (left to right)

TENNIS

 

The Dalhousie tennis team which Dimock, Dal, def. Piola and Norton
won the Nova Scotia Intercollegiate | 8-6, 7-5, 6-8.

Tennis Championship by defeating
Acadia, went on to win the Maritime Championship by lefeating the
Mount Allison team at Sackville
last week by the score of 11 matches to 6. In winning again this year
Dalhousie’s record of never having

been beaten in intercollegiate ten- |
nis, though tied one year by Mt.

pi RNOR, was kept intact. This year
_ the team won twenty-one matches
‘out of thirty-five played. The team
was managed by Fred Barton and
Professor Mercer again gave his
time to directing it.

The scores:
Dal 5; Mt. A. 0
_...Men’s Singles — Hennigar, Dal,

def. Thompson 9-7, 10-8; K. Garton,
Dal, def. Tweedie 7-5, 3-5, 6-4; Dimock, Dal, def. Norton 6-4, 6-4; Bill
Thomas, Dal, def. Piola 9-7; 10-8;
Art Mercer, Dal, def. Wood 5-7,
10-8, 7-5.
Dal 3; Mt. A. 2

Ladies’ Singles—Miss O’Brien, Mt.
A., def. Miss Sullivan 6-3, 6-1; Miss
Anderson, Dal, def. Miss Holder
8-6, 6-4, 6-3; Miss Linkletter, Dal,
def. Miss Della MacFarlane 10-12,
6-3, 6-2; Miss Nutter, Mt. A., def.
Miss Pentz 6-4, 6-3; Miss Allen,
Dal, def. Miss Jean MacFarlane 6-8,
6-3, 10-8.

Capital Closeup
(Continued from Page 1)

been indifferent for several months
and if a strong successor is assured
the possibility is not entirely remote that Mr. Mackenzie King
might step down.

Political observers, interested in
problems of national unity, affirm
that the royal visit will have a definite influence in aiding the movement for solidarity within Canada,
and will contribute in no small way

_ to silencing the voices of dissension

Le
F

   
      

7

heard in certain provinces.

It is understood federal officials
are watching particularly the reaction of Premier Hepburn of Ontario
to the plans being made for the reception of the monarch. Mr. Hepburn’s indifference displayed when
President Roosevelt came to Canada last August, caused some misgiving here, and with the feud between Mr. Mackenzie King and Mr.

Fred Barton, (Manager), Karl Garten, Gordon
Hennigar, Arthur Mercer, Bill Thomas.

Front Row: Carly Sullivan, Maureen Allan, Prof. Mercer (Coach), Irene

Pentz, Zilpha Linkletter,

WINS TROPHY

Jo Anderson (Captain).

Dal 1; Mt. A. 1
Men’s Doubles — Tweedie and
Thompson, Mt. A., def. Hennigar
and Garten 6-2, 6-4; Thomas and

Wanderers, 20; Dal 0
| Showing too much power and a
brilliant defense Wanderers over_whelmed a weakened Tiger squad
last Saturday afternoon. The game
opened with the Dal team seemingly
nervous and without the forceful
play of the Acadia game. Wanderers constantly pressed the attack
and play centered in the Dal end for
almost all of the first half. The first
score came while Dal was attempting to clear. Bill Black stopped the
| kick and Goey Bauld, picking up the
loose ball, crossed the line for the
try. Doug Spruin converted.

In the second half Dal pressed
Into Wanderers’ territory, momen|tarily forcing the play. Wanderers’
defense was too stubborn and the
| Bengals were forced back. The second score came when Rex Carson
| booted the ball crossfield to be picked up by Goey Bauld for the try.
Spruin converted with a nice kick.
Score 10-0. The Wanderers machine
was working beautifully,
smooth blocking and kicking when
the occasion demanded. Wanderers’
three-quarter line treated the crowd
to a fancy display of passing, begun
by Hopgood. Carson made the score
which was again converted by Doug
Spruin. The line again started a
passing play to mark up the final
score. Doug Bauld made the try
and Spruin finished the job. In the

 

 

Dal 1; Mt. A. 1 |
Ladies’ Doubles — Miss O’Brien
and Miss Holder, Mt. A., def, Misses |
Sullivan and Pentz 7-5, 612; Misses |
Linkletter and Anderson, Dal, def.
Misses Della MacFarlane and “Nut: |
ter 6-3, 6-1.
Dal 1; Mt. A. 2
Mixed Doubles—Miss O’Brien and
Tweedie, Mt. A., def. Miss Sullivan
and Garten 6-2, 8-6; Miss Holder
and Thompson, Mt., def. Miss Linkletter and Hennigar, 6-1, 6-3; Miss
Allen and Mercer, Dal, def. Miss
MacFarlane and Wood 4-6, 6-2, 6-3.

Wanderers Seconds, 14;
Cubs, 0

The Cubs gave some indication of
what was going to happen to the
Tigers when they lost to the Wanderers Seconds last week, 14—0,
three tries and a goal being scored
against them. Most of the scoring
was done early in the first half.
After that the Cubs put up a
stouter resistance, but were outplayed all the way. Nevertheless
their play showed an improvement
over last week’s game with Acadia.
Gordon Kinley met with bad luck,
suffering a slight concussion.

Law, 3; Engineers, 0

The Law football team, though
they were outnumbered, won the
first game of the Interfaculty Football League from the Engineers by
the score of 3—0, making one try.
The Engineers had the better of the
play, but could not score. Just before the end of the game the ball
came out to Babe Stewart, who had
been waiting around the during the
whole game for something to happen. He ran with the ball for about
twenty-five yards and then passed
to Don Storey, who went over the
line.

 

Law Courts
(Continued from Page 1)
Messrs. Corston and Corcoran. Had
their Lordships not made equally
eloquent but untruthful eulogies in
their own careers at the junior bar,
they might have been more stronely influenced by these passages of

oratory.

The decision of the Supreme Court
of Nova Scotia in the case of Murphy v. Hart, which concerns the

Hepburn accumulating fire with! local restaurant, The Green Lan
every exchange of correspondence,

_ the relationship between Queen’s
Park and Parliament Hill is not exactly amicable even when consider
ations such as the royal visit arise.

tern, will be heard before Lord
Chief Justice Daley, and Lord Justices Storey and Hirsch, Tuesday
afternoon. D. G. Bagg, K.C., and
Miss M. Allen, K.C., are counsel.

final few minutes it looked for a
while as if Dal would score, but the
boys just couldn’t do it. Dal was
pressing in the last minute of the
game.

The Tigers missed Irwin Paulker
and Ross last Saturday. The ole’
punch and fight didn’t seem to be
there. The boys fumbled too many
passes and their opponents seemed
too fast for them. However, in the
second half the team really tried.

There was too much kicking into
touch throughout the whole game.
Wanderers fumbled at times and at
least once were stopped cold by Dal
blocking and tackling. The Dal
serum worked poorly in the first half
but improved as time went on. Outstanding for the Bengals were Don
Storey, who made several nice
tackles, Kerr, with all round good
play, Haines, Corston, Veniot and
Feindel. Wanderers stars were:
Goey Bauld, Black, Spruin, D. Bauld,
Mont and Carson.

Now that the team has Saturday’s
bad game out of its system, let’s
see better football the next time. A
little more noise from the bleachers
would help too. Dal fans—forget
yourselves for an afternoon and let
go with a couple of college yells.
Have the seniors forgotten the snake
dance through Halifax, when the
Tigers cleaned up Redmen to take
the City League two years ago?

Here’s hoping we have another
snake dance this year.

The line-ups:

Dalhousie — Fullback, Haines;
three-quarters: Leith, Veniot, Hutchins, McNeil; halves: Feindel, Cor
ston, Eaton; forwards:

Storey, Phillips, Mitchell, McKimmie, McDougall.
Wanderers — Fullback: Spruin;

three-quarters: Ryde, G. Bauld, Carson, Black; halves: Mont. D. Bauld,
Hopgood; forwards: Wall, Tanner,
Miller, Holland, Duffus, Just, Grant.

NEW GAIETY |

THEATRE

Thursday, - Friday, Saturday
CHARLIE CHAN AT
THE OLYMPICS

and

LAND BEYOND THE LAW
&

Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday

JOE PENNER AND
HARRIET HILLIARD
in NEW FACES

~ KAY FRANCIS, AND

ERROL, FLYNN
in ANOTHER DAWN

| Adults - 15c * 30c

 

 

 

 

 

with |

Mt. A. Overwhelm Bengals
:

t

 

 

Ideson, Kerr, |

| If a smooth-working back-field can

 

  
   
  

 

In a return match at Studley last |
Wednesday Mount Allison defeated |
Dalhousie for the second time this,
year, having won by the score of)
6—0 at Sackville on Thanksgiving |
Day. Mount Allison scored twelve
points consisting of a goal, a try,
and a field goal, all made in the
first half.

The Mounties played a hard, rough
game that aroused rough play in
return from the Tigers. With the
wind and sun in their favor the|
Mounties carried the play all the|
first half with passing bouts in|
which the whole team took part.

Early in the game the Dalhousie
scrum showed its superiority in
heeling and the Mount Allison team
abandoned scrums and took lineouts whenever the ball went into
touch. The first score came on a
beautiful field goal by Gunner Faleconer of Mount A. Getting the ball
at centre field he drop-kicked it towards the Dalhousie goal. The kick
was true and the wind carried the
ball just over the cross-bar for the
prettiest play seen this year.

The first try followed a Mount
Allison rush from mid-field and was
converted for a goal by Cummings.
The second try was scored on the
misunderstanding of Haines, who
thought that play had stopped and
allowed the Mounties to score. The
play throughout this half was completely dominated by Mount Allison.

The second half was just the
other way round with the Tigers
forcing the play continually, several
times threatening to score. Still
with a make-shift back-field, the
Dalhousie attack seemed without direction. The tackling had improved,
though was still not very good. The
forwards again showed their fine
heeling. The weakness lay in the
back-field, which has not worked
smoothly since the Acadia game.

Clayton Hutchins, half-line  replacement, will not play Saturday
against wanderers, having badly
twisted his ankle in the second half.

 

be developed, Dalhousie will make
a far different showing against |
Wanderers at Studley this Saturday.

Dal line-up against Mt. Allison:
Haines, Ross, Feindel, Corston, Mc-|
Neil, Murphy, Eaton, Armstrong, |
Hutchins, Ideson, Kerr, Storey, |
Mitchell, Phillips, Ballem, MacDou-|
gall, McKimmie.

'the tennis cup, the girls doing their |

| finishes

a great rate and the girls may even

| there ought to be a good team.

|portant of these changes

| rest of the team being down the field | _

|and cigarettes we learned that Mt.

entailed

  
  

October 21, 1938

Watch For
Interfaculty
Football

   

 

Me and Sally at the

Girls’ Sport
ee Football Game

This year Dal has again retained

eee .
bit by winning four out of seven| ‘Sure, Sally, I just love football—
sets up at Mt. A. last weekend. This | and that good looking third year
the inter-collegiate tennis| law student is playing today.

competition

You

but you’ll be seeing | know the one—he comes from Monc
shorts and racquets on the courts till | ton or somewhere up there in Upper
the
|going to start ! ! I want to see
what he looks like in a football suit

O, is that Dalhousie’s team
Well,
I don’t see him anyWhat’s Mt. A.

the end of November if the weather| Canada ... Gracious! when’s

| permits.

Ground hockey is coming along at

 

. wearing the garnet sweaters?

be able to beat the boys this year. S
; where is he?

It was not possible to arrange a

where.

: ties doing with
league but there will be exhibition 5

gold and black on? Oh, that’s Dal
games with Ladies’ College ee #2 HURRAY. Sal
| usie, is AY, Sally
Edgehill. The team will probably} "37 “S 7" | 15, HOES
there’s my MAN—the one with the
go to Edgehill next week. About ;
| white stripe down his back ...0O

twenty-two girls have signed up and |
its a one, is if... They’re off !!!

Miss Wray at a ground Why don’t you yell — I’m almost
hockey camp this summer and has| hoarse. .
come back very well informed about |
the new rules. One of the most imis that
which requires that there be only
six players behind the goal line, the

was
. What a swell touchdown!!
TOUCHDOWN !!! Oh, they call it a
try do they? Some new-fangled
English idea, I suppose .. . I’m getting sick of this . . . Nothing but a
whistle blowing every half second
. What sort of a player does that
whistle-blower think he is anyway,
running around the field like a hen
with its head cut off. Oh, you say
that’s the referee . . . There’s my
MAN!! L-O-O-K out!! Ouch!!! Why
did he kick it to me? Do you suppose he sees me!!! He’s looking

In the store on Tuesday afternoon | awfully hard... WHAT!! I’m S1tover the customary chocolate milks | 4g on the ball??? Oh, Sally how
awful!!!!—There take your old ball
A. has taken up this idea of begin-|* °° Gee, I’m frozen! What do you
ners golf—and what’s more they’re | S8¥ We go over to Roy’s for coffee
doing it in mixed foursomes. Miss| Pefore the tea Dance . . . You know,
Wray like this idea and we wonder Sally, I don’t think he looks so hot
how it would go over at Dal. in that football gear .. .

It is hardly possible to open the
door of the girl’s locker room with-|

out hearing the click clack of bats | POR THE RECORD

and balls as the girls use their one | |
and only ping pong table. There has| October 18: Frank Dunsworth,

on the 25-yard line, when there is a|
long corner. This speeds up the
game at a point where the play used
to lag. The other changes in the
rules are only minor ones. Hockey
practices are held on Tuesday,
Wednesday and Friday at 3.30 p.m.

 

| been such enthusiasm. this. year that| Class 741, won the trophy donated
perhaps the D.A.A.C. will appoint a | for “Scholastic Improvement” by
ping pong manager, so that a tourn-| John E. Read, B.A., B.C.L., K.C.,

ament may be arranged. formerly Dean of Dalhousie Law

| School, and awarded by the ScholarThere seems to be a lot of fresh- School, :

ettes around who complain of gore | SAIP Committee a mone oes

muscles and ery for Absorbine Jr. | Alpha of Phi Delta Pheta Fraternity

Has this got anything to do with | Working in co-operation with the

gym classes? ? : | Office of the Registrar, two weeks
ago.

 

 

FINAL CLEARANCE SALE

Fall

Here’s a rare opportunity to buy a new topcoat at a great saving.

Topeoats

All these

coats go on sale promptly at 9 a.m. tomorrow,

37 COATS ONLY

In Raglan, Slipon and

Smart imported tweeds, sizes 34 to 44.

$14.95

vegularly priced at $25.
Special Sale Price.....

All other Fall topcoats
Tweeds, Cheviots, etc.,
regular price.

in smart Fall models.

29 COATS ONLY

fitted model. | In Imported Harris Tweeds, Scotch
Tweeds, Donegals and Melton. Regular

values to $30.00.
models and sizes.
Special Sale Price.....

A good range of
$21.50

Angoras, hard woven
In this sale 20% Discount off the

in stock, including Camelhairs,

Ask about our special values in English made RAINCOATS with wool linings.
Also English made Garbardines, satin lined.

COLW

ELL BROTHERS

LIMITED

THE ENGLISH CLOTHING SHOP
453-457 BARRINGTON STREET

HALIFAX, N. S.

 

   
