   

Siete. " c

 
 
 
  
   
   
 

2 PO ma ae thal Ta

VOL. LXXI

Pee ey Pee er et

ows f

ee tl Ae se Pe EE et eee ee

ee

 

1938

HALIFAX, N. S., SEPTEMBER 30th,

 

 

 

Council
Meeting
Sunday

 

 

No.

 

 

CLASS OF FORTY-TWO

OFF TO
Welcome from “Bud”

 

 

On behalf of the student body I
wish to welcome the new students to
our University. We sincerely hope
that your campus life will be both
pleasant and profitable and you will
make it your aim to become true
Daihousians.

p GORDON “BUD”. ‘MacKEN ZIE,

we peisite igh 0 |
long x 3 in ee Murray Homestead. It
has been moved to the basement of
the Arts Building, where alterations
were made this summer to allow for
the new room. This was one of the
University’s efforts to reduce the
shortage of office space, from which
Dalhousie has suffered for some
time. The old room in the Murray
Homestead is being renovated and
will become an office for the Institute of Public Affairs.

NOTICES

PRESIDENT’S ADDRESS.
President Stanley will address
members of the University, Tuesday,
noon, October 4th, in the Gymnasium. New students and new professors in all the faculties are particu
larly invited.
* * *

 

TENNIS:

Will all those interested in competing for a place on the tennis
team communicate with Fred Barton, phone L-1523, immediately as
the team must be finally chosen by
Saturday, October Ist.

* cod *

Will those who would like to
work with the Gazette please notify
the editor.

* * *
GRADS:

Will all those pursuing courses
for a master’s degree, in education
or in graduate work in the professional faculties please remain in the
Gymnasium at the conclusion of the
President’s address on Tuesday, October 4th, to attend a meeting of
graduate students.

* = & SF

There will be a meeting at noon,
Thursday, October 6, in the Gazette
office in the Arts Building, of the
staff and others interested in the

Gazette. Freshmen are invited.
* * *

STUDENTS’ COUNCIL: -
There will be a meeting of the
Students’ Council in the Men’s Com
mon Room of the Arts Building on

Sunday, October 2nd, at 2.30 p.m.

 
 

GOOD START

The Frosh have arrived and have
been duly welcomed. Thursday
morning George Hagen chaired the
meeting at which Prof. Nickerson,
Dean of Arts and Science, Doug McKean, Freshman representative, and
prominent sophmores spoke.

In the evening they gathered at
the Gym for a cheering practice before marching to the Garrick Theatre. This year the Frosh were as
noisy and good natured as ever, but
showed more consideration. for the
property and comforts of others
than did their predecessors.

On Friday morning” representatives of the Students’ Council, the
DA. A. C., Sodales, the Glee Club,
and the “Gazette” introduced these
organizations to the Frosh and asked for support.

 

 

Elections for three positions were |

held, and the following chosen:
Treasurer—John MacInnis.
(Continued on Page Four)

The Glee Club

The first-play of the season will
be presented on Friday evening,
Oct. 7th. This show is always ex| Beessly sor the Freshmen _ is

 

 

| taken oyer by the Players’ Guild, |.
an. a ereant ation scarcely a year old

which is already beginning to prove
its worth. Their selection, “A Murder Has Been Arranged” is by
Evelyn Williams, author of “Night
Must Fall’ which scored such a
great success as a movie with Bob
Montgomery in the chief role.

The director is Mr. Pigot of the

Theatre Arts Guild and under his |

(Continued on Page 2)

Registration
Up at Forrest

 

Registration in the professional
schools of the Dalhousie University |
is now .--almost completed and
the results are very encouraging.

If registration in the other faculties |

is as good, Dalhousie may look forward to a banner year. The biggest |
increase is in the Law School where |
91 are registered this year as com- |
pared with 72 in 1937-38. The Medical School has a registration of 215.
This is an increase over last year
and is nearly a capacity enrollment.
Dentistry is the only professional
school showing a decrease. There
are 87 registered, as compared with
47 last year.

Leaving the professional schools
and turning to a very different
corner of the campus we find that 60
applications have so far been received at Shirreff Hall. Though this
enrollment could be improved upon
—the capacity of the Hall being a
hundred—yet it is very welcome, for
last year only 48 applications were
received,

Enrollment in Arts and Science
faculties will not be completed until October 8th.

To Mr. S. R. Balcom, the

“Gazette”, on behalf of the
student body,

extends sympathy on the death of his
daughter Barbara.

 

;
|
|
:

|

|

nt Peg oe lah, 2 Club. oe
first show has been |

   
 

G. FRED PEARSON
A TRIBUTE

| by a Friend

Death has taken one of Dalhousie’s greatest sons, for none

 

\Pearson. From the time that, as President of the Alumni
‘Society, he galvanized that hitherto moribund body into ac‘tivity, until the day he resigned as Chairman of the Board of
Governors, his service to Dalhousie was as unselfish as it was
‘unstinted. Under his leadership the great drive was undertaken at the beginning of the ’20’s which made available the
funds necessary to raise her from a mere college to a univer‘sity. The Dalhousie Public Health Clinic was born of his great
‘interest in public health, and made possible by funds over
which he had control.

During the time of expansion, when the new buildings
were going up_at Studley and on the Forrest campus, there
must have been few days when he was not on the spot watching them take form. He saw well- nigh every brick and stone
laid—one might almost say his blood is mixed with the very

mortar that binds them. There was never a moment in a full
life too busy for him to lay other matters aside for the Uni
versity’s sake.

 

I doubt if any man has ever loved Dalhousie as he did, or
striven so hard to make her greater. To point to buildings to
whose raising he gave so much, tells pitifully little of the story
of his contribution during the ’20’s. His interests in her
flowed everywhere. Though himself a lawyer, and a graduate
of the Law School, he was not held by that narrow loyalty,
and gave time and energy prodigiously to every faculty. But
more than that he was intensely concerned with the problems
of the student body, and in students not only as a body but
individually. I have heard him sigh so many times over the
need for a Commons building that would bring the students
into closer contact with one another, over the need of residences on the campus that would enhance the educational value
of social contact.

I have said that he loved Dalhousie. His love, like Jehovah’s for the children of Israel, was a jealous one. Never
consciously did he compromise with the high ideal he had set
for her, and when in the end he had to take leave of her before
his full contribution could be made, it was through loyalty to

that ideal—and for no other reason. ei

 

‘served her more faithfully—or more unselfishly—than G. Fred}

DISTINGUISHED VISITORS

a

|

New Members
Of The Staff

At the opening of the session Dalhousie is glad to welcome several
new additions to her staff. Professor Bates, Head of the Department
of Commerce, has had a most distinguished and varied career. A
Scotsman, he received his B.A. from
the University of Glasgow in 1928
followed by an M.A. in 1930 from
the same University. During 193031 he was an economist on the Empire Marketing Board in London.
For the next few years, 1931-34, he
held a Fellowship at Harvard and
then in 1936-37 he acted as Secretary of the Nova Scotia Economic |
, Council, so he is no stranger to this |
province; during 1937-1938 Pro- |
fessor Bates acted as economist on |
the Rowell Commission at Ottawa. |
This year he comes to us as Head
of his Department in which capacity |
we wish him every success.

Dr. MacPhail comes to Dalhousie |

 

 

year for New York. Dr. MacPhail |

|is a Canadian, having being born in
: ° .
New Westminster and having ob
 

 

 

tained his B.A. in 1929 from the
| Universivy of British Culurabia followed by his Ph.D. from McGill ‘in
1932. After obtaining his degree
from McGill Dr. MacPhail spent
several years in Europe where he
continued his studies. He then returned to Canada acting as assistant
professor in Physiology and Phar
macology at the University of
Alberta in Edmonton until 1938
when he accepted a post at Dalhousie.

Professor R. E. D. Cattley enters
Dalhousie Professor of Classics
replacing Mr. Pearson who has left
for Yale. Professor Cattley

as

was

born in Cardiff and educated both in

Wales and England. He received

B.A. with Honours in Classies in

1924 from Cambridge, followed: his
(Continued on Page 3)

 

Classical Math

Floors Editors

The numbers of volumes of the
“Gazette” (the Roman numerals in
the upper left hand corner of the
front page) to have caused
previous staffs some trouble. When
we read the number of last year’s
volume we had suspicions that there
had been more terms since 1868-69
than there had been volumes of the
“Gazette”, This sent us to the
files. There we discovered that this
issue begins the seventy-first volume. An examination of the “Gazettes” of previous years revealed
that the 59th volume (1926-27) was
numbered LXIX, while in 1927-28
the number was LX, in 1929-30 the
62nd volume had LXIII, while volume 64 was numbered LXII in 193132. Since then the numbers have
followed successively, which means
last year’s “Gazette” carries the
number LXVIII. In spite of this no
editor has ever started a campaign
to abolish Roman numerals.

 

seem

?

 

On behalf of the student
body, the “Gazette” extends

its deepest sympathy to Betty
Pearson and Maureen Allen in
their recent bereavements.

 

if | versity
‘in the Department of Pharmacology | : :

‘replacing Dr. Dryer who left last | :
: : | Castine, Maine, during the war of

 

ATTEND REUNION

Dal Celebrates
Anniversary

 

Perhaps the returning students
are wondering who dropped that
beautiful memorial in native fieldstone on the Studley Campus, or
who started the construction of the
new library opposite the Forrest
Building, or who placed the new
tablets to the past residents in the
entrance of that building. All these
were the result of Dalhousie’s greatest reunion, celebrating a century
of uninterrupted teaching.

The memorial on the Studley
Campus is a gift from the Historic
Sites and Monument Board of
Canada and was obtained for the
University by Professor D. C. Har| vey Provincial Archivist and lecturer
in history at Dalhousie. It was
erected to commemorate the appro| priation, by Lord Dalhousie for the
express purpose of founding a Uniof a fund raised by a levy
of custom duties on the port of

1812. On August 16, Prof. Harvey
acted as chairman at the unveiling.
Premier Angus L. Macdonald of
Nova “Seotia performed the ceremony before a thousand spectators.
President K, C.-M. Sills of Bowdoin ©
College, Maine, delivered a timely
address on the significance of the
occasion.

Previous to this ceremony the gathering had unveiled plaques to
three past presidents at the Forrest.
Building. The three men were Dr.
Thomas McCulloch, Dr. Ross and Dr,
Forrest. It is to them that Dalhousie owes its high standards and
good reputation. Since Dr. McCulloch’s arrival in 1839 there has been
no break in the continuity of the
University teaching. With Dr. A. S
Mackenzie acting as chairman, relatives of the three men unveiled the
plaques in an impressive ceremony.

Between the two ceremonies the
classes marched in order of seniority
from the Carleton to the Studley
Campus. This procession is a traditional one at Dalhousie Reunions

(Continued on Page 8)

 

Dentist Pulls Crime

 

“Kidnappers abroad.” This was
the cry which startled a lethargic
Halifax on a warm September afternoon just after the professional
schools were opened. Mothers hastened to get their young ones within
the shelter of the home. Anxious
fathers scanned bank accounts and
wondered if they would be the next
victims. Police sirens shrieked and
radio cars sent out messages that
two fourteen year-old boys, sons of
prominent West-end families, had
disappeared. They had last been
seen talking to a well-dressed young
man at the intersection of College
and Carleton Streets, two hours and
a half before they were supposed to
return from school. Cars leaving
the city were watched. School
friends joined the frantic parents,

| relatives, and police, and finally lead

the party to the kidnapper’s hideout.
It was a dental laboratory at the
Forrest building. One of the kidnapped, his mouth propped wide
open, was earning fifty cents by
sitting in a dentist chair giving an
impression for Mr. Peller of third
year dentistry.

 
      

re

|
“

 

5 : bi Printed by McCurdy Printing, Argyle St. <me _

7
7

Pn Dl,
et
wi 
 -whel

| the usual amount of work; they do not need to keep up and

 
  

 

 

#74

GAZETTE STAFF

Editor: BERNARD GRAHAM B-5033
News Editor: WALTER MURPHY B-5191
Sports Editor: DOUGLAS LYALL B-2607
Business Manager: SIDNEY A. GILLIES B-5487

| Associates: Barbara Murray, Marjorie McLean, Gordon Hiseler

 

 

TO NEW DALHOUSIANS

We welcome you to Dalhousie and are glad that you have
joined the student body. You have come to a university, and
we ask you to accept that fact. Do not be disappointed to discover that here there is not the atmosphere of a sectarian college, that you cannot say of Dalhousie that it is one big happy
family. That is a description which (perhaps unfortunately)
never belongs to a real university, because of its very nature.
Here you have students from widely differing backgrounds,
with very dissimilar purposes and interests, pursuing many
courses of study in several distinct faculties. Merely to be a
student in such a setting gives educational values that are unknown in the much more homogeneous company of a college of
one or two faculties. Here you may see how widely varied are
people’s ways of looking at things, how radically divergent are
their tastes, prejudices, and assumptions. If this lack of unity
disturbs you and makes you feel uncomfortable, be patient;
when your outlook has broadened, your foresight deepened,
and your perspective cleared, you will realize that there is a
basis for unity at a university, which is neither superficial nor
obvious, but which joins those who discover it with ties that
time, distance, and racial differences cannot destroy.

DALHOUSIE

A. E. Housman proves, through
his lecture, “The Name and Nature
of Poetry”, that a classics scholar
is able to entertain and enlighten
the general student with a light and
charming discourse on a subject of
eternal interest. If you will take
the trouble to secure this small book
(there are two copies in the MacDonald Library) it will give you a
pleasant and profitable hour. Housman will tell you:

“Poetry indeed seems to be more
physical than intellectual. . . . Experience has taught me, when I am
shaving of a morning, to keep watch
over my thoughts, because, if a line
of poetry strays into my memory,
my skin bristles so that the razor
ceases to act.”

“e

 

. if I were obliged, not to
define poetry, but to name the class
of things to which it belongs, I
should call it a secretion; whether
a natural secretion, like turpentine
in the fir, or a morbid secretion,
like the pearl in the oyster.”

He will ask you: “Why be unwilling to admit that perhaps you cannot
perceive poetry? Why think it
necessary to your self-respect that
you should?”

 

If you turn to the July number of
the “Dalhousie Review” (the Reunion number) you will find an interestirg article on “Dalhousie Today”. In this, President Stanley
presents a bit of history, outlines
some of Dalhousie’s accomplishments, short-comings, and problems;
he expresses the University’s atti
‘| tude towards these, and tells of their

 

“WISE ON TIME”

*““Haperience teaches nothing except that experience teaches
nothing.’
“Only fools learn by experience; I prefer an easier way.”’

—Bismarck.

~

ee While the first statement may be a slight exaggeration,
yet the conduct of most students in successive years makes one

reve
©) he ie b
5 cast 4 : r

elieve that, in general it is true. Evidence to enable them to
tinguish between good study methods and bad, valuable
cla Ses and worthless, real friends and casual acquaintances,
lasting pleasures and time-passing amusements, almost overms them, but they are oblivious to it. This is true of many

  
  

_ who give advice to freshmen, and it is true of most freshmen

who are exposed to advice. Then why is advice given?

__ Because many who have been indifferent to the teachings
of their own experience believe their misfortunes and hardships
would have been less if someone had warned them.— How we
shrink from our responsibility for ourselves!—These believe
they are doing the freshmen a service that was not done for
them. Also, there are some who have been chastened by life,
who have raised the plaintive cry, “Must we always learn by
experience?” These believe that there might be another way:
that perhaps there are a few freshmen who are not laos’. 3
few who have sufficient insight to learn from the experience
of others, a few who will, with discernment, take stock of their
own experiences and will accept honestly the implications of
that stock-taking.

One of our professors reminds us that “ninety per cent of |
being wise is being wise on time’. You are fortunate indeed if|
you can observe what is significant and valuable in the welter
of advice given you; and if, having observed, you are “wise on
time’, for you college will do great things.

 

COLLEGE A DANGER?

The possession of an unusually good mind is at once a responsibility and a delight. It is sad, but true, that often, the
students whose minds were keenest and clearest when they |
entered college, deteriorate so that at graduation their capacity
for work has decreased, their insight is less penetrating, and
their sensitivity has become dulled. How does this happen?

In the first place, their native ability exceeds that of most
Students; they can maintain a good standard with less than

improve their efficiency ; they do not have to guard their hours,
lest they be left without time to do their work. In short, they
do well without utilizing their ability to the full, and so their

 

_ ability does not increase.

Secondly, their failure to work regularly and well, frees
their minds from the discipline of regular and continuous exertion, and develops the habit of squandering time. And a mind
that lessens its discipline is inviting deterioration.

For such a student the danger is lessened if he is but
aware of it. While his studies may not take much of his time,
yet he is careful not to dally over them; when he works he
works eagerly and intensively, and he is regular about his

work, for he knows irregular study is a step towards careless
and ineffective study.

oe

 

OUR ADVERTISERS

_ _ Remember our advertisers; by their use of the Gazette
they do you a distinct service. How about your returning the
favour by patronizing them! thes |

hopes for the future.

Other interesting information of a
more detailed nature relating especia.ly to the past year and the developments of the University during

 

GAZETTE

The Dalhousie
Book Club

 

The Dalhousie Book Club, housed
in the Alumni Room in the gymnasium, is not to be confused with
the MacDonald Library. The Book
Club is a separate organization and

not a branch of the larger library.

It was originally started by the generosity of several of the Governors

and the President.
Whilst a book club had existed in

the University previously, it had not

functioned actively due to lack of
funds and a home. Room was finally
found for it in the new gymnasium;
funds given by friends enabled several hundred books to be bought
and thus the Book Club was resuscitated. All these books are chosen
with great care, and Biographies,
Travel, Politics, Education and Science are represented.

 

|

 

 

 

that time may be found in the President’s Report for the year 1937- |
1938.
the construction of the tennis courts
was financed, what distinguished
persons have visited the university,

 

and what bearing the developments |
in contemporary history have on|.

academic freedom.

 

Very recently when glancing
through the current issue of The
Political Quarterly, our attention
was arrested by A. L. Rowse’s “Reflection on the European Situation”. |
Here we have presented a survey of
the last seven years by a keen, progressive mind. We urge all students
who are interested in the history
which so closely affects them to read |
this article with care. After finishing it would do well to read what
H. N. Brailsford has to say in the
immediately preceding article.

 

We have known some students
who did not enjoy walking, and we|
have even known one who has con-|
fessed that beautiful scenery (he |
didn’t call it beautiful) irritated |
him, but we have known many more
who enjoyed walking and yet did not |
discover Point Pleasant Park until|
late in their college course. The|
Park is not far from the University, |
and when once there, one has escap-|
ed from the city: here one may)
ramble through woods of pine or |
birch, or wander along the rough|
shore and enjoy the rolling breakers. |
To the ardent hiker with but little |
time to spare from work, and to the|
weary student desiring fresh air, |
quiet, and a change, Point Pleasant!
Park is an ever-available source of |
refreshment and delight. |

 

Here you may discover how |.

}cares to join. Books may be taken

‘THE GLEE CLUB—

As the regular fee is five dollars
and the student fee one dollar per

year, the purchasing fund is not
large. Books are expensive and
many, therefore, cannot be bought;
but those which are bought are the
latest and best books in each field.
There is very little fiction in this
library since the books are of a
more serious and constructive type. |

Periodically the oldest books are |
weeded out and sent to the MacDonald Library, where they may be
obtained now. Membership in this
Book Club is open to anyone who

out under the conditions existent at
the MacDonald Library—for a per(Continued on Page Four)

 

(Continued from Page 1)

capable direction the players will be
aroused to do their best.

The Cast in order of appearance:
Miss Groze—Shirley Kirpatrick
Cavendish—Ralph Lewis
Mrs. Wrage—Freda Cahan
Jimmy North—George Grant
Beatrice Jasper—Mary Watson
Mrs. Arthur (her mother) — Mary

Marsh |

 

 

 

  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
    
  
  
  
 

September 30th, 1938

   
   

 
 
    
     
       
     
       
   
       
     
   
   
 

“Are you looking for a Red Cap?”
“No, for a Sweet Cap.”

 
 
    

SWEET CAPORAL CIGARETTES

“The purest form in which tobacco can be smoked.”

  
   

 

  

 

   

SHANE’S
SHOE STORE
397 BARRINGTON ST.

Welcomes Your Patronage
Once Again.

Your Meeting Place

Good Food
Good Service
Good Atmosphere

Dook’s Tea Room

   

   

     

   
 
  
   

    
    
        
  

Representatives for

 
      
      
 

Limited HART’S, SLAYTER’S,
CAPITOL THEATRE BLDG. ASTORIA and RITCHIE’S
SHOES.
Confectionery

 
   
 

Lunches - Tobaccos 10% Discount to All Students.

   

 
 

 
 
 
 
 
    
 

 

 

 

BOUTILIER’S OYSTER
BAR

Oysters Served on the
Half-Shell or Cocktails

Open from 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. Every Day

30 BEDFORD ROW B-6351

 

 

Sir Charles Jasper—Walter Murphy |
Maurice Mullins—George Murphy |
A Woman—Gene Morrison. |

The music during the show and)
also for the dance afterwards will
be by Jerry Naugler and his or-|
chestra. |

 

CURRENT

Everyone is relieved that the imminence of war has been

HISTORY

lessened. There are, however, two things for college students |
to. keep in mind. The study of the historical documents deal- |
ing with the diplomacy preceding August 1914 makes its obvious how skeptical one should be about official announcements
and news reports concerning international negotiations.

The foreign policy of Great Britain for the past seven
years has been consistent and reactionary. It has been designed to support vested interests at home and abroad, rather
than to serve the nation. This is true whether you look at the
Orient or at Spain, at Africa or Central Europe. For some
years it has been the apparent but unannounced object of their
foreign policy to secure an understanding between the four
great powers of western Europe which could and would have
unstated implications for eastern Europe.

I io Oc cine ee a a

Our advertisers are Halifax’ best merchants—patronize them.

 

 

The Students’ Specialty Shop

  

  

Since our establishment over ten years ago we
have made every effort to purchase merchandise
that will appeal to the students in both Quality,
Pattern and Price. The success of this policy
has been proven by the increasing patronage extended us.

    
     
       
 
   

SPECIAL OFFER ON WHITE LAB COATS

SHANE’S MEN’S SHOP

30 SPRING GARDEN ROAD

    
 

JAL STUDENTS GET 10% DISCOUNT ON MOST LINES

  
 

 

a my .

aa

a

":

=

oe

¥

on

= s

4 ar

ae
: ’ j

    

é

_and is always well attended. Led by

  
     

(Continued from Page 1)

‘the New Glasgow High School High
land Band, with Boy Scouts carrying
the class placards, and followed by
the Halifax High School Cadet Band
it was one of the most popular
sights at the Reunion. With it
marched the Chairman of the Board
of Governors, Mr. J. MacG. Stewart,
K.C., and guests including Lord
MacMillan, Professor Ernest Barker,
Dr. Sills, President Carleton Stanley, Dr. A. S. Mackenzie (President
Emeritus), and members of the
Academic Staff.

The events of this day were recorded by news-reel photographers.
Many of you have probably. seen
them in the theatre and have heard
Lowell Thomas comment upon them.

Among other ceremonies which
took place during the Reunion was
the Special Convocation held in the
Gymnasium on August 17. Fifteen
men received honorary LL.D.’s.
They represented many walks of
life and all have achieved fame.

- Some were sons of Dalhousie, others

were not; but it is a credit to Dalhousie that now all these men can
eall her their Alma Mater. Among
them were the three premiers of the
Maritime Provinces, all former Dal
students. This shows in an unmistakable way the college’s contribution to civic life.

On August 18, the cornerstone of
the new Medical-Dental Library was
laid by Hon. F. Davis, Minister of
Health for the Province of Nova)
Scotia. Dr. J. C. Webster, vice-;
chairman of the Board of Governors
presided.

I shall now try to give you a
glimpse of the good time enjoyed by
all who attended, lest you should get
the mistaken idea that the entire
celebration was devoted to formal
ceremonies. For, in truth, the writer
has yet to hear anyone who attended
say that he did not enjoy himself.

The pennant for the best entertainment must go to the first night,
for seldom has the City of Halifax

  

seen such a gala occasion. The
stage was set at Birchdale, the college property on the shores of the
North West Arm. Starting with a
Hodge-Podge supper, served between
7 and 8 o’clock, the evening got
under way with zest. Over a thousand guests then moved down to the
shore and arranged themselves
about the platform erected at the
foot of the natural amphitheatre.
J. P. Connolly led a sing-song which
was broadcast over the National NetWork. Later he and Major Roper
ran riot in a mad mock-convocation
which was the hit of the evening.
In it the bad boys and girls of the
past were honored with suitable
ceremony. The evening proved that
the modern Dalhousians have not
the lung capacity and ability of
their parents and grandparents, for
Dalhousie songs rent the air in all
directions> and in unprecedented
fashion.

After dark a huge bon-fire was lit
on a raft anchored a few yards
from the shore. Along both sides of
this fire were rows of colored lights
and fuses. Fire-works and searchlights added color to the sky when
the people aboard the H.M.S. Skeena
and It.M.S. Saguenay, anchored in
the Arm, joined in. Against these
flames and flashes of lights the
clusters of canoes stood out vividly.
Never was the Arm better illuminated.

Next to Birchdale, the Waegwoltic
Club entertained the Reunion guests |
with a Band Concert.

About ten o’clock the Highland
Band led the way in a parade to the
Gym. There one was free to choose
between dancing, playing bridge or
chatting in the men’s smoker.

Altogether it was the best informal gathering during the entire
Reunion.

Tuesday morning, many put out
to sea on the good ship Lady
Laurier. The weather was excellent
and a.l who could get up that early
enjoyed themselves. The highlight
of the trip came when the captain
was forced to signal Fort Sandwich

 

 

 

= s

 

_ Thursday, September 29th—
11 a.m.—General assembly in the Chemistry Theatre. Short
addresses by Prof. Nickerson, Dean of the Faculty
of Arts and Science; Doug. MacKean, your representative on the Students’ Council, and George
Hagen, President of the Sophomore Class.
6.45 p.m.—Meet at Gymnasium for theatre party.

Friday, September 30th—

Freshman Programme For Class “42

 

 

11 a.m.—General assembly in Chemistry Theatre. Short

speeches about the

Council of Students, the D. A.

A. C., the Glee Club, the Gazette, and Sodales.
8.30 p.m.—Informal dance at Shirreff Hall for all new stu
dents. This is free,
your party.

Saturday, October lst—

9.30 a.m.—Meet in Arts Bui
class dues.

10.00 a.m.—Adjourn to the
Meet.

so be sure to be there. This is

Iding to receive regalia and pay

Maritime Interscholastic Track

2.30 p.m.—Girls assembly in Chemistry Theatre to meet
the officers of Delta Gamma.

Monday, October 3rd—

4.00 p.m—A Tea given by t
all Freshettes.

he Alumnae at Shirreff Hall for

6.45—Meet at the Gymnasium for a theatre party.

Thursday, October 6th—

6.45 p.m.—Meet at the Gymnasium for a theatre party.

Friday, October 7th—

7.45 p.m.—All assemble at the Chemistry Theatre and proceed in a body to the Glee Club Show.

Freshmen

within college grounds; no
in college grounds.

cigars, cigarettes, but not

Restrictions

Both Freshmen and Freshettes must walk everywhere

motor cars permitted.

Freshmen must tip their hats to every lady passed while

Freshmen must supply upper class men with lights for

pipes. Freshettes must supply

upper class girls with lights for cigarettes.

Every member of Class
as shown on programme.

a or

Any breach of rules will

42 must attend all meetings

Freshmen must wait on football tables.

result in a summons to appear

before the Initiation Committee for trial. The Freshman
representative will defend the case.

 

DALHOUSIE
NEW MEMBERS—
(Continued from Page 1)
M.A. 1932. While at University he
took an active part in Dramatics
and sport.

In the interim between his degrees
Professor Cattley was Assistant
Master at Llandaff Cathedral School
and Sherbrone Preparatory School.
He then came to Canada to the
University of New Brunswick where
he was Professor of Classics until
19388. While there he was made
Honorary President and life member
of the U. N. B. Dramatic Society.
He was also the Chairman of the
Regional Drama Festival for New
Brunswick in 1983 and in 1935 he
won the Canadian Drama Award.
Besides his Dramatic experiences
Professor Cattley is interested in|
military affairs having being an active major in the C.O.T.C. His activities also include badminton, skiing,
and sailing. Dalhousie is fortunate
in having so versatile an addition to
her staff and it is hoped Professor
Cattley will find ample opportunity
to continue his work with the stu
  

/many different societies as possible, |

 

dents here.
Dr. Cedric Yeo, a native of P. E. I. |

and a Dalhousie graduate, replaces |
Dr. Griffin during his year’s leave
of absence. During the last few
years he has been the Classics |
Master at King’s Collegiate School |
in Windsor. It is a pleasure to wel-|
come an old grad. back in the capa- |
city of classics professor.

Dr. Lower comes to Dalhousie |
from Winnipeg replacing Mr. Escott |
Reid and Professor MacKay in the
Department of Political Science. As |
Professor Lower has not yet reached |
the city the Gazette was unable to|
obtain any information from him but
extends him their sincere welcome.

Miss Phyllis Wray has been ap- |
pointed full time gymnasium _instructress for this session, she is
already well known through her
work with Dalhousie during the
past year.

Mr. Korning has returned with
Mrs. Korning this year and it is
hoped that she will enjoy her visit
to Canada.

The Gazette extends a cordial welcome to all the new comers on the
staff and hopes that the year will be
a pleasant and profitable one for
them.

rr

 

to cease target practice because the
12 pound shells were coming too
close to the ship.

Tuesday afternoon, following Con
vocation, the ladies gathered at
Shirreff Hall for tea. The men
were royally entertained by the

Studley Quoit Club which is justly
famous for its excellent punch.
The Dal family really got together
that evening at the largest banquet
ever held in Halifax. The Nova
Scotian outdid itself to please the
guests. Lord MacMillan was the’

/membership. |

| pdace.

 

chief speaker, while J. MacG. Stew- |
art, K.C., acted as chairman. Dr. |
Stanley, Major Roper, Sir Walter
Langdon Browne and President Sills |
were among the other speakers.
Wednesday, after a luncheon at
the Lord Nelson Hotel tendered by |
the Board of Governors, many betook themselves to beaches, to
private yachts for a sail, or car
drives, or simply went home for)
some much-needed rest.
In the evening the classes held |
private dinners. One could not go |
in any hotel without hearing Dal
 

housie songs and cheers resounding
from the dining halls.

Most of the guests, however, arrived
Scotian at 9.30 for the Grand Ball.
Good music, an abundance of caps

ated ball-room added to

Dances come and dances go at Dalhousie. Some linger in the memory;
others fleet by. This one will be remembered as long as two of the
party can get together and talk.
The mood of the dancers was perfect
for the oecasion. This dance was
indeed a fitting climax to the Reunion,

Much credit must be paid those
who willingly gave of their time and
energy to make the reunion a success. This was the true Dalhousie
spirit.

 

4

in fine fettle at the Nova'|

[Editor’s Note: It is the aim of
the editorial board to present in

 

this space each week a survey of
the aims, membership and general
machinery of the various smaller
societies on the campus, which together make a very important
contribution to student extra-curricular activity. This survey is planned particularly to aid the freshmen
(and freshettes) in their choice, but

it is believed that the survey will

be of equal value to many others|’

who have as yet to know what it is
all about. We will endeavour to get |
in touch with the executives of as_|

and we would appreciate it if all
societies who wish to be represented |
in this column would make an equal
effort to contact us at the earliest
possible date, so that complete
coverage may be ensured. Any sug-|
gestions for making this column |
more efficient will be most welcome. |

As a special bit of advice to)
freshmen, the following might be of |
some use. Too often people have |
kept away from the meetings of a
society in which they are interested
because of the failure to receive a/|
personal invitation, or perhaps
through a natural hesitancy rather
becoming in those so young. Experience has shown that whenever |
a society says that new members
are perfectly welcome, it means just |
that. It it up to you to indicate
your interest. Finally, unless specifically stated otherwise, all societies
are open equally to male and female

 

 

The Players’ Guild

The Players’ Guild is one of
the younger organizations on the
campus, having been formed only
last year. For some time before its
actual inception, the need was felt
by many students on the campus for
some sort of organization which
would enable those students interested in drama to have a common
meeting ground where they could
read plays, discuss plays, think
plays. From this need has developed the Players’ Guild, which meets
every second Tuesday (beginning
October 11) in the Murray Homestead.. The Guild has made two
ventures in the realm of production.
Last year, it entered a play in the
Connolley Shield competitions, and
fortunately enough, secured first
Again, this fall, the Guild
is doing a play for the Freshmen |
and the Glee Club (“A Murder has
been Arranged”). However, the
primary interest of its members
seems to have been in the reading
of plays, rather than in the actual
production of them. And it is there
that the Guild has performed its
most important function.

 

 

This year, the Players’ Guild will |
start out on a program similar to |
last year’s, with perhaps the addi- |
tion of an occasional lecture on some |
branch of dramatic technique. Mem- |
bers of the Guild are always free
to offer as much constructive criticism as they please, and generally, |

they are pleased to offer a great |

 

| deal.

At the end of each meeting, refreshments are served, which ace |
count for ten of the fifteen cents |
dues charged each member for each |
night he attends. The other five are
used for a fund for the purchase of
books, et al. All members of the
university who feel an interest in|

' the activities of the Guild are cordi- |

and noise-makers, and a well-decor-| ally invited to attend its meetings.

the na-!|
turally high spirits of the dancers]

Membership entails no other obliga- |
tions than an interest in plays and_|
the fifteen cents for each night of |

| attendance.

LT

 

To Dr. T. M. Sieniewiez, on
behalf of the student body
and especially the Medical students, the “Gazette” extends
deep sympathy in his recent
bereavement.

 

Our advertisers are Halifax’ best merchants—patronize them.

 

    

 

WHY NOT ENJOY

ONE EVERY DAY ?

 

WALLACE BROS
SHOES

take pride in presenting
the NEW FALL SHOES
for Men and Women...

Popularly Priced
Smartest Styles
Expert Fitting

° AND

TO THE
CAPITOL

Wallace Bros.
Limited
415 Barrington St.

New Address: Green Lantern Bldg.

GAUVIN AND GENTZEL

Photographers to Dalhousie University

Special Rates to Students — 24 Hour Finishing Service
18 SPRING GARDEN ROAD Phone B 6992

First In Style |

First In Performance

First in the Hearts of College Students

 

   
   
  

wal |

The Pen that Has What It Takes
to Put Youon EvenWriting Terms

with Anyone Else in Your Class

If you want the Pen that ranks No. 1 in
Canada’s schools and colleges—that will help you
rate as no other pen you can carry—go to any
nearby pen counter today and see and try this
pedigreed Beauty in shimmery circlets of Pearl
and Jet—smart, exclusive and original.

The Parker Vacumatic won’t cramp your style
by running dry unexpectedly in classes or quizzes.
For held to the light it shows how much ink you
have to spare—shows when to refill. A Pen that
requires filling only 3 or 4 times from one term to
the next, due to its copious ink supply.

Its Scratch-proof Point of 14-karat Gold is
tipped with flawless Osmiridium, twice as costly
as ordinary iridium.

Go and ask for it by name-—Parker Vacumatic.
The smart ARROW clip identifies the genuine.

The Parker Fountain Pen Co., Limited, Toronto, Ont.

Makers of Parker Quink, the pen-cleanin liens ink.
15¢, 25¢ and up. Pe ing writing ink

Min

000 ae

! TELEVISION

| Yoke Sifiply

PENS:
fF *5 $750
$875 $10

Pencils to match:
$3.50, $3.75, $4,355 +

 

S>-VACUMATIC“—=>

GUARANTSED MECHANICALLY PERFECT

ost

Page Three

 

  

 

WELCOME.
TO
HALIFAX

|

THEATRE

 

 
  

  

~

   
 
     
   
  
   
    
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
  
 
 


I a I Ee

 

 

at ete

Breas ir

UIP eee ee ee eee mee ode
So
a Seage nae
.

v Donkey:
| October a ord

 
  

 

Gymnasium Regulations

We print here some extracts from the regulations governing the use of the Dalhousie University Gymnasium:

4, Application for Use. Any organization desiring the use of the
Gymnasium for events such as Glee Club presentations, debates, dances,

tournaments, etc., must make written application to the Director of the
Gymnasium, one week in advance. This also applies to Glee Club rehearsals, although in such cases shorter notice, if necessary, may be accepted.

9. No smoking is permitted on the stage (including rooms) at any
time, except as stated hereafter.

a. When used as a meeting place for the D.A.A.C., smoking is permitted in the kitchen.

b. During Glee Club rehearsals, members may use the kitchen as a
manknie room.

ec. When used as a Glee Club Committee room, or for regular Glee

Club meetings, smoking will be permitted in the Glee Club room.

Remainder of First Floor, including lobbies, offices and main floor:

No smoking is permitted here except during a dance or after any
other social function.

Any student violating me above regulations will be liable to a fine
of $2.00.

10. Guests. When any student desires to éntertain, as a guest,
Someone not attending the University, he or she shall introduce the guest
to the Director, or his representative, and the name shall be entered in the
Guest Book. The Director of the Gymnasium is responsible for ensuring
that this privilege is not abused,

' 12. Control. The Gymnasium is in direct control of Mr. Sven Korning, Physical Instructor and Director of the Gymnasium, and he has the
authority to “modify any of the above regulations if circumstances require.
The Senate Gymnasium Committee acts in an advisory capacity to the
Director, and to it has been delegated’ the authority to deal with those
who have violated any of the regulations for the use of the building.

Senate Gymnasium Committee: Prof. C. H. Mercer (Chairman, Dr. C.

- C. Coffin, Dr. C. W. Holland, Prof. W. H. Maxwell, Prof. H. R. Theakston,
Prof. C. eee Prof. S. A. Korning, ex-officio.

 

the tarpaulin draped rownd him in

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 
 

SPORTS EDITOR SPE“KS

The fall term of the university ;
brings round another rugby i,
ball season. Rugby is Dalhousie’s
traditional sport and more than any}
other game is associated with the
college and has the following of the

student body. In recent years Dal
itself must create this. Rugby more |
than any other game belongs to the |
players themselves. If they make |
the game interesting, the interest of |
the student body will follow them. |
Their cheering and encouragement |
housie teams have only been indif-| of the team if it is genuine must ne)
ferently successful. This year the| spontaneous on the play. An out-|
material is better than usual but! standing feature at the games has |
there have hardly been enough try-| been the Dalhousie band. It will be |
ing out to make two full teams.| enough if they only live up to their |
This is the year for anyone who| reputation. )
wants to play football for the col-| In both senior and intermediate |
lege to come out. The first requisite| leagues Dalhousie will oppose her |
of a successful team is that every| traditional rivals, Wanderers and.
member be in sound physical con-| Acadia. Every Saturday afternoon |
dition. Too many games have been| will be football day for Dalhousie.
lost because the players were too| The schedule of the intermediate |
tired to play up to form to the final| league will probably follow that of)
whistle. the senior league given below.

 

The physical training of the team} Oct. 8—Acadia at Dalhousie |
is under the direction of Mr. Korn-| Oct. 10—Acadia at Wanderers
ing but it depends on the players to| Oct. 15—Dalhousie at Wanderers
keep themselves in shape. Then| Oct. 19—Wanderers at Acadia
there must be a pretty high degree | Oct. 22—Wanderers at Dalhousie |
of sureness in passing and catching | Oct. 29—Dalhousie at Wanderers |
the ball and in tackling. This ability | Nov. 5—-Wanderers at Dalhousie

Nov. 12—Dalhousie at Acadia |

As before a Dalhousie-Wanderers |
game will count two points in the
standing for a win, one point for a
tie, a game with Acadia four points
for a win, two for a tie. |

is acquired by long practice and
comes more easily to some than
others.

The science of the game is being
taught by Professor Fletcher who
has charge of the forwards and Dr.
Noble who has the backfields. They
both know the game thoroughly,
having played for their colleges in
the old country, the home of rugby
football. The senior team will for
the most part consist of experienced |

 

Dalhousie now provides physical
training for every ‘student, under |
the direction of Mr, Sven Korning |
for the men, and Miss Phyllis Wray
for the women students. P. T. is|

As for spectator interest, the team ; ———

  
  
  
 

 

           
  
 

  

Introducing 
 

TOM SHEEHAN
President of D. A. A. C.
During the past two weeks, D. A.

A. C. budgets have kept Tom ex-|
|lastic records in the 440-yard dash

ceedingly busy; aside from his presidential duties Tom has found time

| to act as secretary to the Track Meet
| Committee.

All newcomers to the University

|'who have not as yet become ac
quainted with Tom are advised to
do so, for with him rests the answer
to all your difficulties concerning
D. A. A. C. matters.

 

 

| field.

Re-Union \n Sidelights

Tietesoua personages, saapigious

occasions, learned orations were all)

a part of the Dalhousie Reunion.and |.
received much publicity in the local
newspapers. But there was much
that went unnoticed including many
stories that went-the rounds,.
There was, for example, the story
of the skunk. A dignified Ottawa
citizen told it on himself. A weekend fishing party had been arranged
and with much excitement the boys
started out. It seems that in their
student days and age the environs of
Halifax was somewhat of a wild and
wooly place. Any way they carried
guns and it was not long before they
saw a beautifully striped little animal meandering across the road.
Our friend from Ottawa cocked his
gun hoping to get his prey. But the
animal got him, to the extent that
he was relegated to the wood shed
for the night, and stripped of his
clothes which were washed and put
outside to dry. After a very uncomfortable night our hero got up to
discover that some rogue of the road
had taken his belongings leaving
him nothing but the tarpaulin which
had been his bed for the night. With

 

Shirley says: “How can I help it
if I have a cold? All the boys at
the fraternity have colds.”

Salesman Henry says: “The Council’s made to be gypped.”

 

New

Gaiety Theatre

HALIFAX’ NEWEST

THEATRE

Two Complete Changes of
Program Weekly.
Continuous Shows Daily.
At Lowest Possible Prices.
Adults 25c to 30c.

    
       
        

    
     
 

“| baek to the city.

 

THE BEAUTY SPOT.
— 197144 QUINPOOL ROAD
Welcomes the Young Ladies of ‘Dalhousie |

DISTINCTIVE STYLES IN HAIRDRESS.

best toga_fashion, he. made. his way

 

7 Oe of ihe a Board of
Governors and a member of the

‘judiciary told this story which hap
pened to him just before his arrival
in Halifax. Court had been: sitting
all one..morning, and wearied. from

his labors he emerged slowly from

the court house. A mountie in his
red-coated uniform yolunteered to
assist him. Taking a firm grip of
the judge’s arm he was escorting
him to his car when, with a screeching of brakes, an American car
stopped and a frowsy-headed blonde,
leaning out of the driver’s. seat,
eried: “Well, Mr. Mountie, I see you |
got your man!”

 

Tennis Schedule

 

Oct. 3—Dal vs. Waegwoltic
Oct. 5—Dal vs. Grads
Oct. 8—Dal vs. Acadia
Oct. 10—Dal vs. Mt. A.

Matches to be played on courts of
second named team. The Dal vs. |
Grads match will be played at the,
South End Tennis Club. The last|
two dates are tentative.

VISIT OUR )
SNACK BAR

We Serve Delicious

SANDWICHES
AND
HOT DRINKS

 

Sandwiches Delivered

Fader’s

Pharmacy
Limited

29 COBURG ROAD

 

    
   
   
 

MISS MACNEIL

  

players, captained by a great natural
player, Kent Irwin.

Dalhousie Book Club-
(Continued from page two)

iod of two weeks and also for sum-| September are ‘Peace with the Dic- |
mer or holiday reading if so desired. | tators?”

Application for membership should

 

 

required for every freshman. enter
 

ing the university. Class of Forty-T wo-
books are added. | (Continued from Page 1)
of the latest editions in|

new

Some Rugby Manager—Ralph Karsh.
Track Manager—Gordon Kinley., |
In the afternoon the Freshettes

were addressed by officials of Delta |

by Sir Norman Angell; |
“Czechs and Germans”, by Elizabeth |

 

 

 

be made to the librarian in charge.) Wiskemann; “The Assault on Hu-| Gamma.

The aim of the Book Club is to|manism”, by Paul Shorey; “Imper- Friday evening a gala time. was
place before students modern, well-| ialism”’, by J. A. Hobson; “Kilvert’s Lee oae Shirreff "Baie -<ehere Miss
written and dependable books in a | Diary (1870-"71)”, by | Dawson; Mauilesans Prof. and- Mrs: Martin
variety of subjects and in this man-| “Wandering Minstrel”, by Cagliardo ath Prof. shad’ Mes Ricehae wore
ner encourage a wider taste for| Caragioso;; “The Making of a Sail-| ona cavinke
reading which will be of great edu-| or’, by Alan J. Villiers; “In Haz-| = Es
cational and practical value to the| ard”, by Richard Hughes; “Insanity |
student. Members are asked to sub-| Fair”, by Douglas Reed; “Postscript |
mit lists of worthwhile books to be|to Adventure”, by Charles W. Gor-| Welcome to |
added to the library and attempts} don, and “The King of Nowhere and

will be made to include them when

 
  

WHEN YOU NEED:
DRUGS

 
  
 

 

MEDICINES

OR ANY OTHER DRUG MERCHANDISE
YOU GET BETTER SERVICE AND VALUE

Kinley’s Drug Stores

Dalhousie Students

Other Plays”, by James Bridie.

_housie
| Maritime Interscholastic Track and

 

Try Our Toasted
Hot Dogs & Hamburgers

   

PRESCRIPTIONS EVANGELINE

TEA ROOM
Spring Garden Dd.

 

    
 

 

 

THOMAS WALLACE

 

 

ACQUIRE. THE STUDLEY HABIT
TRADE FROM YOURSELF

This Store was started for the Students by the Students.
Dalhousie Crested:

Exercise Books

ROY

 

“Lab” Books and Stationery

Buy Your Lunches From
ATWOOD

Below the Gymnasium.
(Meet Harry Smith the new Book Dept. Manager)

 

: Fi SONS and DAUGHTERS

SIGHT SPECIALISTS
Eyes Tested — Glasses Made
“Tf You Want to See Well See Wallace”

|] Y.M.C. A. BLDG. HALIFAX

 

 

Welcome Back

Meet Your
College Friends

at

BLAKELEY’S

The Best Place to Eat
43 SPRING GARDEN ROAD

 

 

 

 

September 30th, 1938

 

| More Rugby
Players

Urgently
Needed

 

‘Dalhousie Entertains

High School Athletes

 

Saturday, October ist, Dalhousie
will be host to high school athletes
when the Maritime Interscholastic

41 | Track and Field meet will be held at
| Studley under the auspices of the

university. The meet is under the
patronage of Hon. Robert Irwin, the

| Lieutenant-Governor of the province,
| Premier Angus L. Macdonald, Mayor

Walter Mitchell, Brigadier Boak,
D.S.0O., Officer Commanding for the
district, J. McG. Stewart, K.C.,
chairman of the board of governors,

|and President Carleton Stanley, and

is duly sanctioned by the Amateur
Athletic Union of Canada.
In other years a high standard of

| athletic performance has been set,

the most notable achievements being
the setting of Dominion Interscho
and quarter-mile relay. It is understood that the number of schools en
| tered this year is greater than ever
| before and there will be a complete

program of events in both track and
Major J: W. Logan is ‘in
charge of the meet and the Students’
Council and the D. A. A. C. have
promised him their co-operation. The
official opening will be at 9 o’clock
with a march of the athletes round

| the field led by Highland pipers.

The trophy is the
Bowl,

beautiful. Dalemblematic of the

Field Championship.

 

 
    

 

———$

An Invitation

If Dalhousians may be
said to have a College
Jeweller, Birks occupy
that position.

   
    
   
 
  
  
   
    
  
 
 
   
   
   
  
  
  
  
    

Each year we welcome
students, new and old,
and invite them to
come to see our store,
whether or not they
intend to purchase.

HENRY BIRKS AND
SONS LIMITED

Diamond Merchants

Halifax, N. S.

 

 

 

It’s a Pleasure

You'll find this a pleasant place to dine, lunch
or quench your thirst,
and the prices are reasonable.

The

Green Lantern
407-409 Barrington St.

 

 

HOLLAND’S RESTAURANT

’Phone B-9480

FISH AND CHIPS
CHOPS, SANDWICHES,
Delivered Promptly to 1 a. m.

“The Only Service of its kind in Halifax”

STEAKS,

Our advertisers are Halifax’ best merchants—patronize them.

 

 

565 Barrington Street

MEALS, TEA & COFFEE

 

"PHONE B-9480

 

118 Granville Street

STUDENTS DESIRING SPECIAL SIZES IN

LETTER CASES

can have them made to their own specifications at

KELLYS LTD.

   

 

  

 

 

 

 

     
     
