. Plat ae
ty flee

re ‘tite i
oe ae + ny
opie eee Seek.

    
  
  

  
 
  
  
 

amis ae AD | BeVOUIE | wut

lati Ae

yr See
9%

 
 

  
 

 

 

=

“* a Wig a3 * . Ae. a i . ipenes wy LEE ON el a a: i Mm mg te

ath a aya’) : ®

     

   

     
   
  
    
   
  
    
    
   
    
   
  
  
  
  
    

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

| | : pir), 3 pF ef ‘ {ss a a
FOUNDED 1869 —=—————= | | a
VOL. LVI. i reat et HALIFAX, N. S., MARCH 12, 1924. No, ® |)

 

NOTE “The Rhyme of the Ancient Student”, _ Mock Parliament.

 

   

ade teed a a

 

 

 

 
  

 
  
          
 
      
 
 

      
 
     
      
     
   
 

' 7 : (Apologies to 8. T. Coleridge) _ Tories Take Office—Enlarge Cabinet. sii
It-is the custom to issue the Gazette in the form dca é‘ Sete i
‘of a four page news sheet twice annually. Editor- It is an old Dal. student The Liberal-Conservative Party assumes office ~~
_imls intended for this week have been crowded out And he stoppeth Freshmen gay— under ¢onditions of peculiar difficulty. The evils ° %
by news, Next week the Gazette will resume the ._. “By thy furrowed brow, what's all the row of the late administration and the consequent de-. ;
eight page form. Please hand in contributions ’ Why this delay, thou jay?” pression necessitate a thorough reorganization
‘early. fi | after which the new government intends to make }
| ss “The Bagdad’s doors are open wide an exhaustive search for any possible remnants of
PR ; | | re? r bound,” they moan, the country’s money. Legislation vovering all © 9}
_ It was with pleasure that the Gazette heard bei pear re soe set / matter of public interest and in accordance with a
_ that Monte Haslam had been elected captain May’st hear the saxaphone!” its Platform will be submitted to the House. True 9
°F of the Dalhousie football team for next to its policy of no patronage the party will not a
_. g@agon. . é 3 He holds them with his glittering eye— deprive the chaplain and clerk of the House of ae
_-_\ “Mont’’ proved,a very capable leader this The Bagdad boys stand still— their services. Or
Bh year. ate And thus spake on that ancient man After a hard struggle the different departments.
ie . | et | “Who'd been ground through, the mill. which. for some reason have lately been inextricS eos Ht ably associated with Finance, have been separated —
; Prize Winners F or F ebruary “A foolish boy—ah me! ‘twas I— and together with new departments created to
Bab é pes Ty Dathousle onée cant cope with the development and progress which inys X At'a meeting of the jury of award, held on it 7 a ‘ow santed variably accompanies a healthy administration, will
ae Saturday afternoon, March 8, the Gazette. And the “best time yet” for aim! be presided over by the following cabinet:
a _ Speci Monthly Book Prizes for the best. CABINET :
EN “verse and prose published during February . Day aster day, week after week, Prime Minister and President of the Councik—. ~
a si — were given to Miss Florence £. Mac- Ot work I'd not a notion— ss es oo Saat ghee aoesttiosfh an .
Fy Wedel | as a ainted shi : “Prade ommerce— raser.; “Nie
innon and ie q n, ere had —_ eta M ‘ Minister of Finance—V. L. Pearson. * ae
| ‘a Se So . : * Minister of. Labor—D. McInnes. p's, +
/ =. “Heaven save thee, youthful Freshmen . __» Minister of National Defence—W. A. D. Gunn.” ey o
| From the fiends that plague me so! Minister of Public Works—C. M, McLeod.
| The port als 6t the gym, were wide Minister of the Interior—Miss R. Stewart.
| y crept in pale and slow. A Minister of Railways and Canals—H. Borden,
i Minister of Agriculture—N. A. McLeod, ?
, “Knowledge, knowledge, vreny-whiete Secretary of State for External Affairs—A. | C.. a
~ And 1 could only blink! | . Milger. | oe
} Writing, writing, we | te Post Master General—Miss G, Wamboldt. © |
ee ‘souldn’t ere t Atle ¢ ' Minister of Justice—Miss M. O, Maddin. | ave
ah | | Minister of Customs—M, D. West.

  
 

   
 

Minister of Civil Re-establishment—C.

  
 
  

ae! OS od. weir, ee pee eas ahr Pe ee ey ae = : : . ;
‘. ¥ ra) a] ’ ily . a, % + ¥ ’ ; - 3 : ‘
ld at + Si ate or” ee eM Me hi Me a. i A ye
a an TT ¥ es kh i f a << x 7 = a. 7 2A if 7 le x 5 ee ai We
/ ie £0 wet VO Dh Gere ee Me MD ie te ak MR EYAL) es etal «oY LBA Ri a
see GT eh Pratt se i ; oa Rie

"I Aas rs rs . or i i ee ela aa teas 1 * : ; are 8 in ae Fa . , :
‘ aie See? 3 ye a a a Os ws a a i » = A ep ee ae ey sts Lem We ie iki
ie. if / 5 ert aE, ae Ct a i oe Tk ht hl as! ae
-! 4 i ;
. . : , i

   
    
 
 

 
 

ster of indies P, Bethurne.
Ker’ of oe Moree and Censo

 

= a a ae
vs We 1
w
 

 

=r Sa nl ae alta alll sill «
Pte a all

<a < eh a ie hs
Aah oe atl il

S—=
eo
Te 
Yt et ia = .

  

 

PINE HILL FOLLIES

The evening of March 5th, saw the return
of the Pine Hill Follies in their new Revue,
‘Well! Well! Heaven and Hell!’’ When the
Glee Club announces that the Pine Hill
Follies are coming there is no doubt as to the
securing of an audience and a crowded house
greeted the performers. The production was
an undoubted suceess. The catchy costumes
and elaborate stage setting combined with the

 

originality of the show and the talent dis
played by the members of the Follies made it
a splendid entertainment, packed with fun
and enjoyment.

‘he program started promptly and,
although long, and necessitating many
changes, one number followed upon another
without unnecessary delay or hesitation.

The opening chorus was very original. In
it there were five boys, each with a letter of
the word ‘‘Hello.’’ But at first the boy
having the letter ‘‘O’’ was missing and
‘‘Hell’’ was formed on the stage. Appropriate music was furnished by the orchestra.
When ‘‘O”’ came on he found the wrong
end of the line and now it was ‘‘O Hell”’.
Finally he reached his proper place, and
‘‘Hello’”’ having beer formed they sang the
‘“‘Hello’’ chorus. At this stage Harry
Langwith’s chorus of dancing girls—a bewitching bevy of beauties—entered and and
did a dance.

‘Buan’’ Barvaby and ‘‘Red’’ Maclean
proved themselves to be excellent coons and
eomedians. Their dialogue was witty and

well done, their song, ‘‘Steppin Around,”
being one of the big features of the evening.
Howard Hamilton, the ‘‘Master Mind”’ be
hind Pine Hill Follies, in addition to plann-’

ing and managing the Revue, himself appeared in several numbers, much to the enjoyment
of the audience. His musical monologue;
‘‘That Reminds Me Where I Left My Umbrella’’ was given in excellent form. Following the monologue two noted performers:
‘«Strong-man’’ Sutherland and ‘‘Stout-arm”’
Youill, appeared on the stage and presented
their strong-man act. Many a breath was
held as the mighty Sutherland lifted enormous weights, bent lead pipe, tore in two the
‘book from the Shirreff Hall library and
lifted his ‘‘hefty’’ colleague skyward.

Not to be outdone by such artists of brawn
and muscle Thomas Roland Goudge appeared
in the role of a little girl and sang the old
favorite ‘‘My Bald Headed Doll.’’ The

finale of the first act consisted of solos by

Clouston, Hamilton, Frame and Barnaby,
followed by the chorus singing ‘‘Samoa’’.

During the intermission lantern slides of
the professors and other notables around
college were shown. This proved one of the

Be _ biggest ‘*hits’’ of the evening.

The opening number of Act 2 was a camp —

Me a i seene, Around the camp-fire was seated

pote lege ““Spark-Plug’’ Seott,

) sings high ‘‘@’’;‘‘Dynamo”’ Jones, who Don
a te BY os ; a Pa a ero “ . 7
4 ar ning = ,
| py) 1 ‘ ip we
“a.

- | i x SS a ‘7 :

in pee ete eed ’ L ea: .
— ‘all § i a se hy at a

as , im ? - .
oa Wir, hits

 

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

The College Editor

A college editor should be a superman, endowed
with the patience of Job, the editorial ability of
Horace Greeley, the managing and directing ability
of Chas. Schwab, the diplomacy of Woodrow
Wilson, and the judicial qualities of former Chief
Justice Marshall; he needs the keen -humor-of
Lincoln, the dignity and philosophy of Socrates,
the religion of John Wesley, and the agnostic tendencies of Ingérsoll; he should have the literary
ability of Shakespeare, and the lack of conscience
to perpetrate the atrocities of Amy Lowell. In
addition to these few qualifications he needs the
physique of Jack Dempsey, the nerve of a hold-up
man and Edison's ability to do without sleep. His
brain should be so ‘constituted. that he could absorb
the essentials of a twenty-hour credit course by
means of the barest perusal of the subjects therein contained and to pass the final exams with
honors so that the faculty will respect him and
allow him to remain in school. He _ should be
absolutely foreign to the needs of rest, sleep, eating, recreation, the love of society the inclination
for glory in athletics, school activities and love.
Having these few qualifications he should be able
to qualify as a fairly competent editor, and there
is a possibility that he would not be hauled on the
faculty carpet more than once a week and kicked
by the student body in general more than once a
day.—Idaho Argonaut.

 

Intercollegiate Debate
KING'S vs. DALHOUSIE MEN

At the Gymnasium, Studley, at 8 p. m. Friday,
March 14.
“Resolved that Confederat.on is
interests of the Maritime Provinces.”

in the best

foresaid artists were witty, complacent,
versatile, fallacious, fabricatorious, and perhaps sometimes harmonious. Their offer was
well received and duly applauded. Following this number came an excellent saxaphone
solo by Doug MacDonald. The third number was ‘‘Ukulele,’’ accompanied by the
Ukulele orchestra. The Ukulele players
joined in singing the chorus. Three of ihe
entrancing chorus girls, Misses Grant, Cummings and MacCuish, seated in a swing, ‘gave
the effect of color and ‘‘beauty’’ to this number.

In the next number Harry Langwith prov
ed that he had a chorus of dancing girls-able—

to compete in charm and dancing ability
with any ‘‘Follies’’ Chorus. The dance was
followed by a piano solo well and pleasingly
rendered by Blanchard Thompson.

The grand finale was original. The famous
Pine Hill yell was piétured on the stage—
‘‘Well! Well! Heaven and Hell!’’ There

 

were two wells, a tardy and hesitant angel, an —

eager devil, apparently much at home, a
Pine tree, and ‘‘Pill’’ Hill, As the spot
light flashed from one object to another the

= 7 F #é Ve ; : 4 >
; " z Aft ty pall aed

fr Pi ane

=A

 

 

Serenaders Broadcast First Dal Radio
Concert.

 

Dalhousie made her debut in the radio
world last Friday evening when the Dalhousie Serenaders made the ether resound
with the famous ‘‘1!2!3!’’ from station C, H.
A. ©. The numerous phone ca!ls received by
Mr. Fassett, operator of C. H. A. C., are full
testimony to the success of the Serenaders’
program, and radio fans within range will
eagerly look forward to their reappearance.

On the rol’ the Serenaders names appear
thus:—Piano, oy Woodill; violin, John

Thurrott; sexaphone, Doug. MacDonald;
cornet, Andreas ‘oh: nson; flute, Blanchard
Thomson.

Quartette—Ginge ."raser, Bill Fultz, Ed.

Cameron, Joh’ Wie!wire.

Accompanist — Johu Thurrott.
The programme :—
Dal Yell.

Song—Oh Won’t You Come Up to Dalhousie,

Fox Trot—Linger Awhile.

Quartette—Bits,

Tenor Solo—At Dawning.

Fox Trot-—I Love You.

Quartette—Who’s Sorry Now.

Tenor Selo—I Listen For You.

Waltz—Song of Love.

Quartette—‘‘ Kitty.’’

Tenor Solo—My Dreams.

Waltz—A Kiss in the Dark.
Dal Yell.

 

"ALLEN’S

The Leading Bookstore

 

BCOKS ON SCIENCE, ART,
POETRY, FICTION, Ete.
Also School and College Text
Books.

Commercial and Society Stationery.

——a S zie Pens—

T. C. ALLEN & CO.

 

 

. Be sure to get our prices on
class group work, also sport —
oe. re ben

 

appropriate word of the me was oo by the 4 Ba Sf

tae

9

ek 2
eu

124-126 GRANVILLE ST., HALIFAX, N. s. Tr

PU Le aaa : = es = =, ——
ree ee Wb ite es Ade? >) 7G. (ec
wie : eat > ~ . ves t r
: EA ety MR SN OY OS tH ve
“

 

Pine Hill Post

The past week among us has been a sober
one. Preparations for the Pine Hill Follies
took most of the time and we hope you enjoyed our little show. The boys certainly
did their best to entertain you.

As usual Pine Hill has secured a generous
quota on the new Student’s Council. We
congratulate Sid Gilchrist, Allan Hill, MacGregor Grant alias ‘‘Jigger,’’ Maurice Armstrong, Rod MacLeod, and Bill Wickwire,
on their election.

With the onset of spring ‘‘a young man’s
faney’’ you know the rest of it. Well, Evan
Murray has been away to Stellarton for the
past few days. And every Pictonian knows
that where Evan is something is going on.

Yes ‘‘Tee-Hee’’ ‘you’re right on the
**Prune-Lemon’’ episode. At least Bingo
Harrison has made us a frank confession. He
says that any fellow who knows the Hall
as well as he does—well, he’s thinking of getting on the staff next year.

Bob Scott to somebody: ‘‘Do you think I’d
prove a good mate on life’s ‘‘voyage.’’

She: ‘‘I guess you’d do provided I were
captain.”’

WE ASK YOU

Why was Harold Frame moving heaven
and earth to get back to his last year’s preaching station? Ah the power of a woman’s
smile !

If the Strand is not a rather undesirable
place to go, just after one hast tried his first
smoke? At least wasn’t that Gerry Olmstead’s experience?

If Waldo Swan hasn’t notched up a record.

Waldo’s latest achievement is studying in the
Dental Infirmary between acts?

Who was the person who spoke so softly at |

the Glee Club—‘‘Isn’t Howard Hamilton

making a mistake in not following a vaude
ville career ?’’
What Herman Campbell meant when he

said I don’t know what would happen to me if

they closed at midnight like they do at some
other residences ?.’’ |

If all the nice things we hear about Ira
Sutherland are true?

Cheer up Shirreff Hall, “Bun” Barnaby
and ‘‘Red MacLean are going coon to en
—tertain you some evening.

 

rom Six to ea

the boys who thrill with desire for
| greater athletic accomplishment are the
| ralsh who pick | i

 

‘ae mT ae vie Po oo ay RUD, |

a , | 4 - > fi
’ ie a oo = *
« vee | SAF a ae
Esa n ee be ae =i
A ‘ :

THE. DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

PLAYER S

|

  

P i

 
 

ae

  
 
 

and in tins of
_ 30 0 and d 100 |r

 

 

SHIRREFF HALL

oe ee ee oe

Once again the Hall accounts for the doings
of its inhabitants during the past week. Tuesday being ‘‘Pancake’’ Tuesday, there was a
procession of seniors carrying covered dishes
to the various tables.. Excitement ran high.
Everyone wanted to know who got the
buttons, rings and five cent pieces. Everyone
knows who got two of the buttons, but the
curious ones will have to ask Miss Lowe about
the third. —

Sympathy is again with Rosie Goldstone,
who, not content with a broken nose, has gone
to the other extremé, and sprained her ankle,

Tough luck, Rosie.

Last week there were several visitors from
Acadia and Mt. A., and Miss Helen McCully,
remembered by the old Marlboroughites, has
been visiting Roberta Forbes.

Agnes Duff and Alice Sproull have both
sustained a severe ere its rather becoming. i
At the Sophamors class sae, a young

 

(\v. NAVY CUT

    
     

 

  

TTES

   

than all other brands |

combined

 

Med. Basketers Do Well

 

 

There are so many varied activities at Dal —

this winter that interest in the Interfaculty
Basket Ball series seems to be pretty well
crowded out. Medicine has upheld her usual
high standard, however, by turning out a
crack team which is well on the yay towards
the championship. Engineers suffered a 26

—6 defeat from Medicine and the Pine Hill

team also went down to thé tune of 21—15.

The Bio-Chemistry laboratory is at last in —

eneig, the

working order and lab. classes have cor
ed. Under the charge of Prof. Yo

Bio-Chemistry Department is one more a "

towards an A 1 Medical School.

During Anatomy lecture one day recently : i: 7
‘Sir, I think me

Voice from rear of class:
building is on fire.’’
Dr, Cameron (going on with lecture) : Oh,
very ‘interesting, very interesting.”’
Congratulations to Miss Eva Mader of ard

ae :
Redes Se .

*
~~

at ee - ' a eel me Sa /
ipa apie”
yi >

Year on winning a place on the girls’ debat- }

ing: team, which meets Mt. Allison tonight.
se S.G.)

CELEBRATE!

St. Patrick’s Day by enjoying the evening ai the

- Glee Club.

CATNIP.

‘al
i Fr ee
say:

  
 

8 “THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE...

Dartmouth Wins At Hockey . kK iff’ K ) : K
Dalhousie lost to Dartmouth by the score of . I | S , raZy uts
4—2 in their last game of the City Hockey , PENS | i.

league schedule. Al a “y' vie, as :
: Xx Y . ° :
The Tigers had no chance of winning champion- 4. Pf aa ae a digitalis fame, has | Tyimmings with ‘best workmanship honors since the Wanderers defeated their revere . ow y OF Pacumonia, namely
quinine. The ‘medical world no doubt is

crippled team last week. 7 oy : ’ :
The game was important to Dartmouth as it electrified by the findings of this local GourTus.

enable them to play off with the Wanderers for the

 

 

. » ¥. f

rao:

 

Finest Materials, | Lining and

 

ships at reasonable prices.

 

title. Dear KuirFr:
The two teams set a fast pace, and a well con- What would yon do if you were the only
tested match was witnessed by about 1200 gytsider invited to a freshman party ? Your Cla ton & Sons
mpecratore. advice on this matter would lift a great y
For Dalhousie, Lewis played a great game in the weight from my mind. :
nets, while Dunlop, Bates and McKenna gave a: Worried] i ;
good exhibition. | ips PES Tailors & Clothiers

Only three minor penalties were imposed. Joe

 

   
  
 
 
 

les 2 Dear ‘‘REp’’:

Crockett and Dr. Leo Fluck refereed, The Teams: P fi

Dalhousie—Goal, Lewis, defence, Dunlop, Wil- This matter is altogether beyond my comson, forwards McKenna, Bates, Haslam, subs, prehension. _ I should say it was the price
Hickey, Smith, Ernst. of over-popularity.

Dartmouth—Goal, Sharpe, defence, MacDonald, ‘a Kuirr.
Patterson, forwards Beazley, H. Radford, T. {% M ea ia H Oomes p un S p or t
Radford, subs, Beazley, Smith, Gibb. ‘ .

shdcbannesas ant conan Dresses. New Spring

 

 

: Time: 12.30 P. M.
Senior Class Party Occasion: Important. meeting of Class ’27.
On Thursday, March 6, the Seniors, chaperoned Mr. Sh-tf-d: Hey, how about giving someby Miss Lowe had another of their very enjoyable thing to the starving Hebrews in the
Social affairs—this time a theatre party and dance. Hebrides?
At the first of the evening those at the Majestic

thought tl rt ld b ll, but the . :
Se, ee eee neers F-ob-s—‘‘Say, Jim, how do you like
later joined by the rest of their number who had %
Chesterfields ?

gone to the Orpheus by mistake. :

Then all repaired to the Tarry Inn where delici- G-h-m—*‘ They satisfy.’’
ous refreshments were served, and to the accompaniment of Johnnie Thurrott’s jazz they spent the Davy Colquhoun—‘‘ Better to love a small
girl, than never to have loved a tall.’’

Shades and Styles
$5.98

JENSEN & MILLS CO. LTD.

26 SPRING GARDEN RD.
119 YOUNG ST.

 

 

rest of the evening in dancing.

Class °24 had many guests at this party which
broke their record for strictly excluding outsiders,
but they were indeed welcome, and the affair was
all the more lively for their presence.

“arm . © | A Class Distinction |

The Hinge-Cap is the insignia of Williams
Shaving Cream and of Williams only.
You'll notice three things about Williams
every time you shave. 1. Williams lather
is heavier and holds the moisture in against
the beard, Quicker and more thorough
softening takes place, 2, Williams lather lubri
 

 

Dal Girls Lose To Mt. A.

| Dalhousie played her second match in the
| Girls’ Intercollegiate Basketball League on
| Saturday, March 1, at Sackville, losing to
Mount Allison with a score of 12—14. The |
| game was as close as the score indicates, and

 

the result was in doubt up to the last whistle.
Dalhousie led by one basket until the beginning of the second half, when Mount A.
equalled the score, and then the teams scored
alternately until Mount Allison made two
_ paskets in succession, making the score 14—
Phi: Bee
The Dalhousie team. arrived at Mt. Allison
Friday evening, and during their stay they
‘were entertained at Allison Hall, the girls’
| residence. They were very fortunate in hav| ng as chaperone Miss Lowe, the Warden of
 Shirreff Hall.
After the game the Dal girls were enter_ tainee at supper. and then they all rushed
_ for the station, accompanied by Mt. Allison
‘University, en masse, who sang Dal and Mt.
A. songs until the train came in, The Dal

 

 
  
    
    
 

Allison for being so nice to them, and they
are all looking forward to next Saturday’s

a
‘ eo Beene
. .

| ®
:
7 * A
7 _ ‘ ers UY
’ Pe aN “y x 2
f A . . a
. ¥ ,
’ NT
oO 4 ' .
! x * Lv
: al
fe
he
i

 
 

cates your skin — your razor actually seems to
“slide” thie hairs off. 3. Williams.lather leaves
the skin in marvelously fine condition. No matter
how frequently you shave, your face stays cool,
smooth and comfortable.

You'll enjoy every shave with Williams. It is
a pure, natural-white cream without any artificial
coloring whatsoever.

BB

   

Neo
fii in

“
L,
is ofa
' ss so

: a

.
' N
* ’

:

 
    
  
    

ane 22° .

oY oa? .

+ ee
iy

- 4
x Pod ‘
_ ve A | ,
~ . 4 E
, 4 fg j
- | {"
a + ey oi
3 <
ca ii }
- 7
| b - rae
roo. ) ae
le wy
ae
j
« ,

The Williams Hinge
, a
He ,o4

0 ;
it’s 7 : You can’t +
‘ i? ; a .
, : ==) -2 "ty ¢
qt i s ; , 4
7 4
’ &
= : 1 a
