4 7
nT

    
  

VOL. LVI.

 
  

The Dalhousie Gazette

FOUNDED 1869
ONE, DOLLAR PER
- D. R. WEBSTER. B. A.

ASSOCIATE EDITCRS
Miss Allison McCufdy
P. T. Hickey. B. A.

YEAR

   
 
 
 
 

 

{S8UED WEEKLY
ED!ITON-IN-CHIEF

nF Roa.

Miss K. Covert
W. &. Gilebrist

 

     
   


FACULTY EDITORS
A. F. Macdonaid
A. Munroe
Dei Meany

 

   

  

   
  

PERSO! debating gave a display seldom equalled on a
| SPORTS local platform. Dalhousie is proud of them.
 BTaF Our Cambridge visitors proved themselves
OVER delightful guests. We wish them every
ae ee success and every pleasure possible’ during
Oe te oe their stay on this side of the water.
ae Sepa ere Within the past few months Nova Scotia
me has been ealled upon to bear the loss of
Saarhi> Bie several of its foremost men. Especially does
es — e feel he passing of Bob” ae
Ee We ae e tot Perea to
i ' ie ee : sd de sympa
oer _ my.
; heat etu
ae fa ae ; y
Gen: 4 ; AEDs " Hyer Gi CES ae Bg a ow
| . 0 | Pie oe ae ie Ha. ar . i A Yok z eed Aad € 2
. : o Gey ~¥ Bey Fung lege iad ne Sie Mate a
a | i Eee eae tee
mea the — et
8
i q
:

ae ae

 

 

1 ee ep hae

FOUNDED 1869

HALIFAX, N’S:, OCTOBER 15, 1924,

in the world outside. On them lies the burden and the privelege of building their alma
mater.

The large audience and the favourable
comments heard on every side must have
amply repaid those responsible for the recent
Cambridge-Dalhousie debate. A special innovation this year was the division of the
teams and the close vote showed how successful this scheme proved. The Cambridge men
like the Oxonians who visited us a year ago
made a most pleasing impression by their
parliamentary style of debating. Our own
men changing their usual form of varsity

 

  

  
 
    

     
  
  
   
  
   

oayt s ale
eo | dae
bs =i . . ; ne
Va wend 4y tte tit > - .
* 4 i aa =a a = ha # 7 i” ay d f H
mi 2 ;
5 es 4/= ) wih 4 4 ches \ i
- . 7a - : | f 5 :
ri y at : ti - 7 : Ft ¥) r
i Fs : \
ue Ye ‘ i , aaty :
A - : » * .
. fi ae SF! :
A

No. tls 7 |

A Word of Greeting to All
New Dalhousians

a

Last spring it was my privilege to confer

degrees or diplomas upon 145 good Dalhousians, and, although it was a pleasure to —
award this recognition of the honours which
the recipients had so justly earned, yet it was
a pleasure tempered by the regret of parting
after long associations. Now it is my pri
ilege and a pleasure alloyed with no such —

regret to welcome to the halls of old Dal- |

i

housie 238 students who have honoured us ©

by choosing Dalhousie as their Alma Mater:

“~~

ae

ae ee
<a ie at sot bs =e on

In my day we used to sing a song which hed ¥
a line or two which run thus: ‘‘ Tis greatly ~

to our credit that we are Dalhousians, for we
might have been——’’ (invidious distinctions. _
which I must not quote). In my maturer ©
years I realize that the credit is not only to

Ee

you, but that your selection of Dalhousie is a — 4

tribute of respect to her and a recognition”

of the place she has won in the acadel

world and of what she has to offer in ¢
way of sturdy and honest scholarship @

opportunity. Sr te Bi i

 
 

asi “Or

Saba enough yet. to do that, I should

as my text the word ‘‘opportunity. A t
versity means that we are a ma ody,

working for a common good,

Staff and Students. You will find ix v8
ema ilacengsigncg pale gS ge 3,
far oy me or pt ea
keenly sensitive that you will equally try ;
aoe We are inheritors of | an idea ;

ns ET elas, _ fe
= A> Be nanan ia he
fe NG ie eh gel
Sick te, Male sic
. rT

es * id ba} : o ;
a 2 i

ih t
. .

ra a

“-e: 2) sia , Ps
- yF 4 | Be a 4 t¥
ee ae | - Hl

~

7
i

iy
wg
'~

a

= st

 

 
 

           
 
  

  
   

   

ee —————————————E

Professor Rene Gautheron

The MeLeod Chair of Modern Li;
which was left vacated by the death of Professor H. Jones, was recently filled by the
appointment of Rene Gautheron. Professor
Agregre of the University of Paris.

Professor Gautheron was born and  edu
 

-eated in France and taught there for some

years.

In 1910 he was made Professor of the University of Brest, where he stayed ‘two years:
He then came to Canada and, having filled
the post of Professor of French Literature at
the University of Montreal, returned to
France after two years.

In 1921 he accepted the position of Professor of French Languages and Kiterature
at St. Francis Xavier College, but only for
one year, and the rest of his time was employed in writing in Paris.

any recommendations have been received
of Professor Gautheron, and from what has
been seen of him so far, all great expectations
of him will surely be fulfilled.

Dr. S. H. Prince
The appointment of Dr. Prince to ‘the

staff of Dalhousie and King’s is ‘one on which
the Universities may be congratulated.

Dr. Prince was born at Hammond Sound,
‘New Brunswick, and was educated at St.
John High School and Rothesay Collegiate
School. He then studied at Toronto ge
cersity where he received the re i
B. A: in 1908 and M. A. in 1909. following year he was made curate of St. Paul’s,
at Halifax, where he remained until 1919,—
in which time he showed himself to be an
able and eloquent preacher.

On his being appointed assistant at St.
Stephen’ s Church, New York, he was able to

continue his studies at Columbia University.
-. There he. obtained the degree of Ph. D. with
distinction in 1922, since then he has been
ret pods Lecturer in Sociology at: that

By the ‘appointment of ‘Dr. Prince to the ,

Goin staff, it will be possible to deve

a
e
‘_
a a?

Nh 9 rn
ee |
ae SS
es

it je
Pl

ees,
‘Slt

ee

=

~ LF a
pa es a |

oF

 

aetna Ee ee et
Se A pamper
= r

eT eet Ps

LW. FRASER

ei i,
Eietete soto laly

So
os

STAN Om OD

W. 8. GILCHRIST ~

Camedia tiles ws Ceidiocs ates Debate.

On the night of Saturday Sept. 27th, the
Cambridge undergraduate debating team
visited Dalhousie, and in an arrangement
unique in Halifax of two Cambridge men
with a Dalhousian debating against two Dal.
housians and a Cambridge, gave Dalhousie
and Halifax the best debate of years. Among
Dalhousians the unusual division of the debaters was not, before the debate, at all
popular, It was an experiment; the experiment of holding an intervarsity contest without. the familiar spirit of inter-varsity
antagonism, which lends an interest of a sort.
But a greater interest was substituted, all
Dalhousie and Halifax had the experience of
an impartial interest in each side and the

prospect. of making an impartial judgment.

The subject itself-contributed to this im- 
portant interest. Imperial Preference in a

 

quarter of a century has been a familiar that he has the au

But strong, logical argument, to be. convincing, must go into detail and can assume
nothing, it is the province of the essayist;
and the debater, necessarily limited in time,
must’ lave convincing detail to the imagination: The Dalhousian attempting the logic
of a review and without the reviewer’s
space» was forced to leave the audience to fill
in these blanks for itself; but the attitude he

had already adopted, that of cold, hard, logie,
had defeated his aim, for the audience in

voluntarily daid at this point to itself, ‘‘ You

said you would show us! and we ‘want to be
shown.’’ The Dalhousie method demands, as

I have said: a reviewer’s space to convince; .
but the English man on rising to his feet says .

confidently to his audience ‘‘O¥%—Hello,
Halifax;
And he does talk: in s

 

question in British and Canadian politics, willingly,
gt By apne election has ever been ne dal the

‘there we

LP NE at tL

. a , > P ,
a 4:

—- a sdietie yon at we

a . 4
> A , eee i
" = ” - _
; | ANY che oe . ee, tik ee
: - a : oo oF
) = HM hp “ 7
ty a
py 2 ae i) 4
a 7 oe
eS : wah ’
ag E 4
F F
;
’ lial

Fs a if os
i Pe
>

Let’s—oh—let’s talk. bout pect

  

Huroumeon-Momarry’ 
Another wedding of extremé* ‘interest to
Dalhousie students was that of Miss Jean
Moriarty to Mr. James D, Hutchinson. This

Wedding took place in St. Andrew’s church,

Halifax, on September Mth. Miss Moriarty
made a very charming bride and her marriage
was the essence of -prettiness. She was
attended by Miss Nora MacDonald also a
Dalhousian. The groomsman was Mr.
William Stewart. Mr. and Mrs. 0. ag
now reside in Montreal thea
them the sincere. good

    

_ Dalhousie students who are eo ee enoug =

to know them: ee
WALLS-GRANT

The marriage of Miss Myrtle, V. Grant to
Rey. Chester Walls, of Saltsprings, Picton
County: N. &., took place at the hole of the
bride on Thursday, October 2nd. ‘Friends of
‘the bride beautified the drawing room with
Autumn leaves and flowers. Miss Grant was
given in marriage by her father and looked
very lovely in white canton’ crepe wedding
gown. Miss Edna Grant, a sister of the
bride, was bridesmaid and Mr. James Grant
of Southbridge, Mass, the gromsman. The
wedding marches were played by Miss Mabel
Murray. After the ceremony luncheon was
served in tastefully decorated dining room.
Mr: and Mrs. Walls are. now residing in
Saltsprings. Among the fifty guests present
the following Dalhousians were represented,
Mr. Victor Wallo, Waweig, N. B.; Mr: John
MacKay of Mahone Bay; and Rev. John D,

| MacLeod of Durham.

a a
aa
is Cen

‘ To
7 eu

. oe eerenay as pecan bye Be

 

STewart-McDONALD

Sie Monday, October 6th, the marriage of
Miss Mona MacDonald, to Mr. William G.
Stewart took place at Mai aitland, Hants Co. N
“Presbyterian, minister ot

   

The Students Council on Wednesday night
was indeed a hugh suceess..: The fine music
supplied. by. Mills Orehéstra, (which, by the
Way, consisted “of three “Dalhéusians), the
delicious. ice eream and cake; the style in
which it was served. being. an additional
delight, and the general good pep and enthusiasm which accompanied it gives us conclusive. proof of the aforementioned success:

iAboutitive hundred people were present at

‘the Gymnasium in spite of the ill: will o: the
weather man, and a faitly large ‘proportion
of them consistéd of the newcomers to Dalhousie. These F'reshettes and Freshmen

were given a royal weleome to the College by

an eloquent speech from Leonard Fraser,
president of Students Council. The chaperones for the evening were,—Miss Lowe,
Mrs. Murray Maeneill and Mrs. Munro,

Hot Dog!

On September 30th the Jolly Juniors held
their first class meeting, with the earnest
intention of planning a lively good time for
the beginning of the year. Business began

by the election of the all-important Social |
-Committee—Allie Thompson,

Charlie Mackenzie and Vera Morris. Elinor Barnstead’s
proposal of a party at their cottage at the
Dartmouth Lakes was joyfully received, and
an hilarious combat of wits between Glad
iators Creighton and Davidson emsued. The.

latter ‘‘heartily concurred with any project
wherein nature would combine to add
- romance,’’—that is: he agreed. with the suggestion that the party had. better be post
- poned until the full moon,

But alas for 26, both the full: moon | and

and ‘Davidson were lacking at the crucial moment.
¢ The later missed the ferry, and the former

i Ng je i lt eat hn

Rens aaoaelie.

ae es
: ¥!

ial ante ee ee

; .
Ls Ae a2 '
A Lat Fes
: O ; J s 3
Ae m be ia = laa
~*~ , 3. oe Ace re ie = = abr 3 i "
iP eo waa “eu ah ] ae WR 4 ¢\- £ b as
: 7 iZ . igh et % : re.e y
+ eed F in ae both. was ——
{ i 7 az L ; An NS Wy ret ”
| f Pans .
' -—- .' *
re
& f *

 

ee
aid ae r a as 5 ao ing 9

eRrrF Ppa
iM

So ast

 

vie sees, of

As has been customary for many years,-—
Dalhousie students have married as well as
others: This’ year proved no exception and
several of our former students have tied the
nuptial knot.

On August 22nd, 1924, Miss Jean Annard.
was united in marriage to Mr. J. R. Nicholson. Fort Massey church was indeed a
beautiful sight decorated with banks of
flowers, and the wedding is said to have been

one of the prettiest that has taken place ‘in
that church in many years. The ceremony
was conducted by Dr. Ross and the bride was
given in marriage by her brother, Mr. William Annand. The bride was attended by the
Misses Madeline Mader and Edna Thompson, the groomsman being Mr. Charles
Beazley. Many visiting and resident Dalhousie students attended the wedding and,
after the reception given at the home of Dr.
and Mrs, A. I. Mader. Mr. and Mrs. Nicholson were given a genuine Dalhousie ‘‘send
off’’ at the South St, Station. Miss Nicholson
was extremly popular among the Dalhousie
students and the high esteem with which she
was regarded was demonstrated at her
wedding.

Several of friends of Mrs. Nicholson
have received letters from her bringing the
news that*she is now established in her apartment in Vancouver and has already made
several friends in that. city.

—====DISPENSING
MacLeod, Balcom Ltd.
Druggists .

FIVE

, IG

, 7 PAS e ‘aie 4a

 

  
   
  
  
    

 

: = b~a5 -_ a

   
    
NS A a: ara me Aone 7 _
. ~ . i ee trae cE emer: — be 
ee ee
7 7 Ly
- = 
   
  

a same night as a game keep supporters from

TPE Fee eee ee ee
“7 ' !

THE ‘DALHOUSIE ‘GAZETTE

 

Commerce

 

Owing to the fact that Babe Mowatt is not
with us this year,, we are without a president
but hope to get matters fixed up very shortly.

We wish to welcome the neweomers in
commerce and we feel sure that they will
never regret their entrance into commerce
even if Accounting 2 is still on the curri
culum.

Messrs, Priest and MeCurdy have failed to
turn up this year and they will be greatly
missed by all, especially on our fast hockey
team which is going after first place this

winter.

 

Overheard in commercial law.

Chip.—What was that rumbling sound I
just heard? It sounded like a cart going

over a bridge.

Sam.—Probably that truck you ate at

Mader’s last night:

 

Miss M.—Do you know Boo?
Miss F.—Boo who?
Miss M.—Well don’t ery over it.

 

Allie would like to know if he could claim
an action in court if he took a kink in his

neck while at the Strand.

Intercollegiate Conference

 

One of the most successful intercollegiate
athletic conferences in recent years was held
in Turo on Tuesday Oct. 7.

Students and faculty member were present
and there was a free and frank discussion of
all matters concerning intercollegiate
athletics. The old breach between Mt. A.
and U.N.B. was healed up, it was decided
to keep the Eastern and Western Leagues
intact and a schedule of games was drawn

_ Up:

Diseussion re the adoption of the Canadian game instead of English Rugby showed that practically all the colleges regard
such a move with disfavor, although it was
suggested that the Canadian game be tried
in Interfaculty Football.

No Dances?

 

Last year, Shirreff Hall and, as has been
said, ‘‘other unthinking bodies’’ were severely criticized for interferring with City
League games- These organizations did not
actually stop a game or interfere during its

- progress—their opposition : was of a mor
indirect nature.

Dances and class functions held on the

Engineering Notes

 

Yell, yell holy hell—Here we are again.
After devoting our summer to the advancement of industrial conditions ( when we were
allowed) all over the country, we are now
‘ready t to transfer our energies to the more
theoretical side of the constructive world and
partake of the remainder of the professor’s
knowledge.

Oh yes we’ve been to Truro. During three
weeks of ideal weather we lived under
canvas spoiling the seenery of the suburbs
with a forest of stakes and the streets of the
Hub with a motley collection of breeches,
sweaters and army footwear. The camping
site had a few disadvantages including the
fact it was used as a pasturage which prevented us putting down stakes everywhere
we pleased. Then the brook lay between us

     

 

“Law Luncheon”

 

The first of a series of luncheons was held

by the Law Society on Wednesday at 12.30

o’clock, at the Green Lantern.

V: L. Pearson, President of the Society
presided and after the lawyers had done full
justice to mine Host Hart’s menu, Major J.
W. Maddin K. C. of Sydney, addressed the
Society. It was Major Maddin’s intention
to speak on criminal law but owing to the
fact, that he is to appear in defence of Bevis
on Friday, Major Maddin considered ‘‘it was
too contentious a subject to propound his
views about at the present time.’’ Instead
he selected a subject which would not be
contentious to anyone, namely, ‘‘Our
Mothers. ’’ |

Major Maddin, who is an able and pleasing
speaker dealt with his subject in an interesting and versatile manner, which held the
rapt attention of his audience and brought
home to them the duties and love they owed
to the one, who never wavered, no matter

what tribulations, they had to endure. =>
| St Fe ei 8 Te 96
Sa snanh Seema

: it
=+ Bis

Dean Read, on
thanks was g

     

   

-_a™ aes wr *.

‘ = al A he . . Hl ; ~
7 ss wee" soul , aes
rie aes os mi it Me ripen 2
ny 2) f c td
d 3 ' a 4

— ve.
bi | an .
Pa
;

 

‘oom home a are

 

a ee
’

Alma Mater

In May-time here at Studley the air is fresh
and sweet
And the willow-trees are — with the
Spring
The — stars and duniellons are golden
my feet
And all. ine long the mating robins sing.

 

In Autumn-time at Studley the woods are all
aglow
And o’erhead the skies are shining soft and

clear

And golden-hearted girls and boys across the
Campus go

As children to a mother kind and dear.

In Winter-time at Studley the windscome
sweeping chill

And the willow-trees reach out their snowy
hands,

The robin’s song is hushed and the fields
lie white and still

And quiet as a ghost the College stands.

But there is one place fairer, that I lowe
though far away’

Where-a Tower leans o’er an old Quadrngle
square,

And the winds blow in a welcome from-a
little blue, blue bay:

St. Andrews! and it’s oh my heart is there.

—CANORA:

 

LITERARY “D” STANDING

To the newcomer a word about the literary
“DED” may not be amiss. This is the reward given
by the Gazette to the student winning twenty-five
points. Everyhing published is awarded a certain
value and from time to time the standing of the
contributers is announced. Below is the list at
the present t time.

(To Sept. 1924.)

ee

Miss M. A. Beresford .......cse cee ceeeceens 22
J. A. Forbes, Gordon Dawson .......+++e0+++ 18
George Morrison, S W. Gilchrist .......+.+-- 14
B. frwins D. O. Hebd 2... 2. cc ccccveaveccasee 10
Wael, MOPORE iii creda v9 CHe Be pew USF eeee env 10
Miss Freda Winfield ........:cseseeeeeeese ja.
D. F. MacDonald, E. A. Mowat ..+...-+sse5: 7

J. A. Smith, Miss Ruth Foote, A. B. Morton.. 5
T. M. Cumming, F. J. Forbes, A..F. MacDonald 4

Miss H Hamilton, ‘Miss Roberta Bond...... 3
Arthur Murphy Miss C. F. Johnston, .......- 8

. Williams, Miss Vickery ........005eeeeees 8
c H. Sedgewick, Donald ee ‘a ey 2
G. MacOdrum, C. M. Oake, C. MacLean ...... 2
I. Fraser, Miss H. Elliot .......0seeceeeeeees 2
Miss R. E. Campbell ....--...+++eeeeeet a Se
G. M. Grant, G. i] W. Fraser yee 1
Miss E. Barnstead, W. G. Sexton .....---+++5 1

- | DALHOUSIE STUDENTS—

     
  
  
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
 

oe ou know that we, have inaugurated a
YOU can have your

honda ~~ regularly—as wel as your

es iit benefit to students away
This is pa r wood be having

   
   
    
   
  

   

  

  
    
  
  
 
  

P | Ths PET ee
* | a

PT ae HTT TT Ty eae

THE ‘DALHOUSIE .GAZETTE
 

 

The first meeting of the Medical Society
was held in the Munro room on Monday
evening, Oct. 16, with the president, Edgar
Kelley in the chair.

The first year men were asked to introduce
themselves to the Society, which they did
rather reluctantly. The new men from
Chicago were also presented to the Society:

Some items of business were then discussed.
‘‘Kelley’’ MacLean was appointed manager
of the Medical football team. Under
‘‘Kelley’s’’: leadership, there is no reason
why Medicine should not turn out a crack
interfaculty squad. All that is needed is some
interest. If you can play football, if you think
you can, even if you don’t think you can,
turn out and do your best for your faculty.
If you do not play yourself: come to the interfaculty games and use your lungs.

A committee to arrange for the Medical
dance, which will be held shortly, was formed,
with R. E. Bennett as convener: Th
‘‘Med’’ Dance was the best of all last year.
It will be the best this year, so be there and
enjoy it.

After the above items were dealt with, the
remainder of the evening was spent in a
jolly social time, enlivened by Harold Robert
son at the piano and ‘‘Kelley’’ MacLean’s |

jig which never fails to win applause.

Apples and cigarettes in abundance were
supplied and altogether the meeting was a
real sticcess. The ‘‘Med’’ who fails to
attend these Society meetings not only shows
a lack of faculty spirit, but deprives himself of a great deal of pleasure which is
rightfully his.

It is nothing short of true to say that
every ‘‘Med” is glad to see Monte Haslam
back with us again this year, despite rumors
effect that he was not returning. Which
reminds us: The most of the ‘‘old warhorses’? who battled for us against the Wanderers are ‘Meds’.’’ Every member of the
Faculty should take pride in the fact and
should be present at every game to cheer our
boys to victory.

W. S- G.

Scotts Men’s Wear

30 SPRING GARDEN ROAD

Headquarters for Dal. Boys

A splendid stock of furnishings of all
kinds, Winter Overcoats, Hats and
Caps, Gaberdine Raincoats and Suit
Oh Girls!

 

You don’t know what you missed! If you
weren't at the S.-C. A, supper! What, you
didn’t know when it was! Why, Wednesday, October. first. .Such.a-time! Lovely
things to eat—ham and salad and tomatoes,
and coffee, and washington pie! Oh my!
Everywhere the freshie Woks, she sees signs
of these good cooks!

Well, we did more than just eat, too. We
sang college songs, and then the president
made a speech. Her name’s Allen. Then
another girl told why she liked those study
groups that they talk so much about, and
after that Miss Lowe took a long time telling
us what she thought of the S- C. A. Guess
we had a pretty good introduction to it anyway.

Then they began to entertain us, K.
Vickery sang nicely too! Not like some of
the squeaking things you hear! Then a girl
called Shawl I think, played ‘‘Turkey-inthe-Straw,’’ so we could’ either dance to it
or go to a funeral. Two girls dressed up in
their grandmother’s ancient clothes, pretended to be old maids, and sang something
about paddling your own canoe, until you
died.Don’t know whether they meant it or
not. The last number was the craziest thing
you ever saw: a pantomine, about ‘‘ Wablert’s
Rise from Counter to Coronet.’’ No aristoeracy for me thanks! Then we all sang
‘‘God Save the King,’’ and they let us go.

Foe.

D.A.A.C. Meeting

 

The semi-annual meeting of the D-A.A.C.
was held in the Munro Room Friday evening, Oct. 3, President ‘‘Red’’ Sutherland in
the chair. i

The meeting was not lacking in old time

enthusiasm and several ‘‘burning’’ questions
were put on the mat for their annual. dis
cussion. As to intercollegiate football, it was
decided to defer action until it is definitely
decided whether or not St. F. X. will join
the Western League.
ably drop out of Intercollegiate Football—
and there is a chance that she may drop out |

in any case.

On discussion of the question whether or —
Incollegiate — Q

not. the requirement for an
‘‘Tl)”’ should be made more stringent, it was
agreed that the present ruling be sustained, —
i: e. two Frst Team games (either City —
League or Incollegiate) for Football, three —
for Hockey and three for Basketball; but it —

was recommended that this ruling be more ag

strictly enforced. .

0 tg eases my ue

chee ees
he 3

eh pies —s

MT A

If so, Dal will prob- |

a

. rh :
* Ane
"

cS

 

  
     
    
 
  
    
 
   
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
      
  
     
   

 

 
 

      
 
 

    
  

 
 
 
   
 

 

ee ea, a ee a

iar

 

Eligibility Rules. For Interfaculty
Athletics inDalhousie University

 

1, To represent any faculty on an athletic
team of that faculty, a student must be
registered in that faculy, __.

2. No sudent shall be permitted to.. play

on more than one interfaculty team in.

each branch of sport. | !
3. A student to be eligible for compet
ition must not: |
(a) Have won an athletic ‘‘D”’
in that branch of sport in which
he is competing.

(b) Have played on the first
college team in that branch of
sport in which he is competing

during the same academic year in
which he is competing.

4 No more than two students who have
played one or more games on the Second
College Football Team shall be eligible tw
play on any Interfaculty Football Team
during the same academic year in ‘which
he i competing on the Seeond Football
Team:

5 No more than one student who has
played one or more games on the Second
College Hockey Team shall be eligible to
play on any Interfaculty Hockey Team
during the same academic year in which
he is competing on the Second Hockey
Team.

6. No more than one student who has
played one or more games on the Second
College Basketball Team shall be eligible
to play on any Interfaculty Basketball
Team during the same academic year in

which he is competing on the Second
Basketball Team. :

7.  Refererees for any Interfaculty competition shall be selected by the managers
of the compeung teams.

8. Disputes as to the interpretation of or

 

ras > os J SF aS wt —F ns D
Tae rey Lae POT aa ene en GLe ee nL ann ee an
‘¥ vay é'. rh 1) ae ~~ i wh ae ¥ .

‘THE... DALHOUSIE. GAZETTE

eee

Realizing the.value of -Intérfaculty Competition, the D. A. A. C. has more than ever
in recent years fostered this branch of its
work- The advent of the Gym and in.
structor led to a revival in basketball partieularly ; so that last year saw keen interfaculty ocmpetitions and successfully eompleted schedules in all branches of sport.
This year, still keener rivalry is anticipated
as some teams are already in action and
some valuable trophies ‘have been promised
for the successful teams.

. “The Crisis”

 

The face of the man who was sitting opposite me in the restaurant paled preceptibly.
He seemed to have lost interest in his meal,
and soon he laid down his knife and fork:

He began to fidget about in his chair,
glancing uneasily from side to side. Nervously he stroked his chin and fingered the tip of
his nose. He appeared to be unwell.

Passing a hand wearily across his forehead, he sighed, and closed his eyes as if he
were in pain. As he slowly opened them
again, they met mine. I shot him a glance of
sympathy and understanding.

Suddenly he sat upright in his chair,

snatched at the edge of the table in a perfect
frenzy.

The situation was ' becoming intense. I
grew alarmed. What if he should die?
Then his face flushed. In an instant it
was crimson: COlutching the lapels of his
coat in both hands with the grip of a dying
man, he drew a long breath—and sneezed!
| 2 a

JENSEN & MILLS CO. LTD.

26 SPRING GARDEN RD.

 

   

Personals

We are pleased to learn that Gordon Fogo,
former Business Manager of the Dalhousie
Gazette and also a graduate iii law, has procured a position with the Burchell and
Ralston Law firm in Halifax.

 

Miss Angela Magee who graduated from

the Dalhousie Dental school last year is now ,

oe a post-graduate course at. Rochester,

 

Mr. Horace Read, the editor of the Dalhousie Gazette for the year 1923-24, and who
graduated from the Law school last ‘spring

is now continuing’ his studies at Harvard
University.

 

_ Miss Roberta Forbes has taken up her work
in dentistry with the Massachuttes-Halifax
relief at the Health centre She now has
the position formerly held by Dr. MacKenzie.
Dalhousians are very glad to know she will
be in the city this winter and resides in the
new Dalhousie clinie building. ~

 

Hazel Thompson is now working in connection with the publie schools of Halifax as
school Dentist.

 

Olive Maddin, who is a graduate of the
Dalhousie Law school ’24 is now at her home
in sydney in the office with her father, J.
Maddin, K. ©, |

Among the recent graduates we still have
a few remain with us. Miss Margaret MacKay, while continuing her studies, is also an
assistant to Dr. Bean; Mr. R- ©. Robb is
studying for his M. A. in Biology; Miss Jean
Tatterie a graduate of 1921 is now filling the
position, formerly held by Mona MacDonald,

with Dr. Bell, as an associate instructor in
biology.

 

Allister MacKinnon expects to leave f
Toronto this week where he will ea

 

ee Te
‘ okey CJ ep
Bie rie oe = @ hy w
Tere Pirie Tr ” 44 ‘i lt
. + nS a = a

Wanderers Win 8—0O

 

The Wanderers, playing a neater brand of
Football, sent the Dal squad down to defeat
in the first game of the series on Saturday
afternoon last.

Playing on a field soaked by two days rain,
first class football was not looked for, but
under the circumstances the game was a good
one for a starter and the remaining games of
the series are certain to be keenly contested.

The Reds were more finished and surer in
their plays due to their long period of
practise; while the Tigers showed lack of
practise and were not sure of their passes,
though in their individual positions they
equalled their opponents. Several times a
wild pass prevented sure touches and many
fast and pretty plays were foiled by their
fault.

Hunter made the first score, placing a try
directly behind the posts which was easily
converted by Lilly.

In the early part of the second half the
the Dal squad played its worst game although
the forwards were tackling well, especially
‘‘Red’’ Sutherland who throughout played
a fine game, at this stage Temple Lane made
the second try for the winners which Lilly
failed to. convert:

Seore now stood 8—O and the Tigers now
put forth a supreme effort, and after some
neat passing on the Dal half-line, MacOrdum
was forced out of touch within an ace of
scoring. But R. McCoy scattered all hopes
by sending the ball down the field by a quick
punt.

Dal was now playing its best; Fabie Bates,
always fast, got away severl times but found
the slippery ground too much for him, while
Kelly McLean has rarely been seen, in such
quick following-up and tackling. _

The game ended 8—O in favor of the Reds.

The line up :—

-‘Wanperers: — Forwards — Colwell,
Schwartz, Jones, Arthurs, Armitage, Stech,

 

 

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Phys. Notes

GYMNASIUM CLASSES

Several classes have commenced their
regular work, Class representatives can
arrange for regular periods by applying to
the physical instructor at Studley gym.

BOXING, WRESTLING, FENCING

Students wishing instruction in boxing,
wrestling and fencing should register without delay:

ATHLETICS

An Interfaeulty Athletic Meet will be held
in the near future and it is expeced that
many of the University records will be
broken. (Practice means success).

STUDENT BADMINTON CLUB

The student Badminton Club are planning
for a very busy season as a large’ membership is expected.
ADVANCED GYMNASTICS, TUMBLING

Students interested in advanced gymnastics, tumbling, etc, are requested to
register at Studley gym.

Dalhousie Won Intermediate Game

In the second team game in the City
League series on Saturday, the Dal Intermediates had a decided edge on the Wanderers and rolled up 10 points to the Red’s nil.

R. Gushue was the outstanding star for the
winners, scoring seven out of the ten points.
His well placed drop kick over the bar in
the first half was exceptionally pretty and
not often seen in a Second Team game—he
registered the other three on a penalty kick.
The remaining three points were made on a
try by Hewat, captain of the Intermediate
squad, who played a clever game.

Dal’s Second Team is a good one and their
games as expected to create almost as much
interest as the Senior games.

The line up:

DatHoustes— Forwards —Ernst, Coleman, Grierson, Winfield, Hebb, Langstroth.

 

 

 

 

7

alarm. The Dalhousie Girls’ Athletic Club
is one of the most enterprising of the societies
of this university. The work it does is very
well known and the new officers are expending much energy in order to make this year a
success.

Ground hockey is proving very suecessful,
The members of the fair sex that have turned
out to the practises have proved almost as
fast runners as the football players themselves. Great enthusiasm for the game is
reported by Manager Edith Macneill.
Chances are for a match with the Acadia ¢coeds as well as with the H. L. C. girls. Permanent hours have been set for practice—
Wednesday and Friday afternoons from
4.00 to 5.30, and everything points toa
splendid season.

Not only may fhe Dalhousie girls participate in hockey but also in basketball, badminton, fencing and gymnasium work all
under the admirable instruction of Mr.
Sterling. Temporary hours have been
arranged in these branches of athletics and
classes are expected to begin this week. The
following are the hours :—

Basketball—Monday and Thursday from
7.30 to 8-30, Friday from 5 to 6.

Gymnasium—Monday and Thursday from
8.30 to 9.30.

Badminton—Wednesday from 3.30 to 5.30,
Friday from 2.30 to 4.30.

Fencing—One class, Wednesday,
5.30; the other, Friday, 2-30 to 4.30.

Everybody ought to take advantage of
these enticing offers. There is no need to be
shy Freshies» even if you have never played
basketball or badminton before, come and
learn. Now is the chance.

3.30 to

We want to .

make the year ‘‘the best yet’’ in athletics,

Dalhousie has always stood for good clean
sports and fair play. We need your assistance. You will enjoy it and perhaps you

 

 

 

   

 

 

position with a law concern there. The Dal- Handwright. Halves — Wood, Moore, Gushue, Me- Will be doing something for the glory of old

arising out of these rules shall be deter. — 119 YOUNG ST. housie students wish this brilliant graduate Halves—Bob MeCoy, Suteliff, Hunter Donald. Dalhousie. tah. F
| mined by the D. A. A. C. executive. much success in his future occupation. (eapt.), T. Lane. “ “ seers Somare Miller, Hewat. : : , ‘4
i 9, A team desiring to protest a game shall THE 2 POPULAR DRYGOODS STORES | Quarters—R. McCoy: Thompson, Young. ullback—Piercey. 1 5 00 s C : h P . or
i do so in writing through its manager, y | Dedicated Fullback—Lilly. | | $ ) In Las rizes —
is such protest to be in the hands - of the | — DauHouste:—Forwards— MeLean, Me- Girls’ Sports How many words can you make from the
i Secretary of the D. A. A. O. within two RIGHT—SERVIER BIGHT Half a buck, half a buck, cole, Hogan, Baird, J. Sutherland, Tupper, letters in the three words) “SHEFFIELD
i days of the termination o fthe game. PRICES R 1G H T — QUALITIES Half a buck , Red Sutherland. | + “D. G. A.C. Whatever does that SKIN SOAP’? $500 First Prize. Judges
‘- : The Prof has assigned the books Halves—MacOdrum, McInnis, Teed, Has- roe ‘ai rs ar cee teeniata anes. ahe Banker, Wducator and Clereyman. ‘Saat
b Interfaculty Athletics ee "“Chagre like the ght Quarvas- Bates, Slipp, Beardeley fied by those awe-inspiring letters. We can ‘Stamp for Cireular and Rules. — Sheffield
EB eee Drygoods, Millinery, Ready-to- Soak’em, by | Tee ’ | Satheds Donkey cet re assure you however that there is no cause for Laboratories, (Dept. 10) Aurora: ‘ ’
. The constitution of the Dalhousie Amateur Wear and Ladies Tailoring ae out their last cent on so : 7 ; hs : .
aca oe omens coma ohare tte te igh Bigs CLIMO | | DALHOUSIE |
Bit embers, Gb ke at | wr se 1 aati NEL a es Peo

; Be that is, of the whole male student body. NOTICE ‘ok oe a Senet dnt & ee ee i PHOTOGRAPHER ENTS : se
___. This of course does not mean only the pro. , ; ff ~~ $01 BARRINGTON ST. ey

     

      

    
   

_ duction of members for its Senior College 1
__ teams but also the furthering of athletics on .
a smaller seale amongst the faculties com
= By y A ; ti : : j **
= f ; : bea ‘ 4 ; Fr
‘ ’ - : - é + +3 (5, 5 7 a a
a. dh » == : 0 " a } P . s i he ra ei , a .
i c ie ama ) . ‘a Le = — PF « es : © T ‘ fo ; 5 "4 if em AP # ‘
f » j : : : + 2c Ale - 5 2.
et , e : , 2 © S ae = rs * on 4 ai ¥ _ Ea: ¥ ig ar ¥ ’ ur 4] eo
9, r ; 1 1 i ‘ ’ $ , a ek Ae | + al r? 4
bce fat ¥ , = at ‘ , , oP tA A A eo,
. or = _ * yy fit : ‘ye
sj oa. ea P z = 4 sea : Z - _ :
3 ' “ i = >! f " ’ i
| ' i r :
Pa os > “ ee . :.
A - - == z_ 7 ? é *,
vd , ? = pt tA nee
7 . ( .
*

tate!

|

   

Phone S. 1395

 

, |
~ *

WE EXCEL. IN

ait
7)
7
ae
gs
_
S
| ta
os

re

 

‘ ‘ae Pa! Pale eats ‘amt
¥ : F ee 7 - a 1 on eh ian eo : a 4 .
it rz 7 SAE AP x 4,4 rei vet Se oe

ae ie a 7 : : t ¥ - | £5 Meverica ce? scala ie Mut, - .
ACL 7 % ara x Pays i 4 fr" - ¥ jie he: 4 iu
Pe 4 fy - he a - . ea a)

e va) >" . &e
° c he my
‘i ee;
1 ca

| LANTERN |

i .
are
E rh, _— ,
= +4 ce + it
served at prices. renee
& ‘i 7 ; : 7 » 2a oi = . ,
» J ; ; —
1 h ££ J P +s . , 4 = j ‘ gil’s ren Ls : ra. eo aes te Wy
i. J zy. ‘ t . . 4 a > * J
oe 2 ’ ni ; og si * it : } 4 r 7 + 5 » » i" }
; 4 a ms . aT nn { — - BN ur .* ce eee
See eee eee ee ee ee ee ee oe 2 abt
af ar) a i big! | J ; a parti i Yi ar rey. iF = er" * , aa 7. 7 ihe = Ae ry aN uh t :
+ at af se ie ay / ae ot oy ey Shee i Pe / afi vn p bs ee
i eo. = - 8 sai cites ioe oh ce ee A) al % = 1 fe) Pi ae 3 4
i x r 2 pf " , tool . heal ’ €
6 NVILLE :lti(‘“‘ a aR ee 5 inh ie
par % , be Yeh ed i a % , ie ? er ks ty . ;
ee] ee va. ee ee Shes | a i te be Ng Viet. ee a ’ ‘
ES) RS ANA DALAT ERM | oes Ml ote ik 4 .
‘ - = A  -= y i ~
2 - Pm eng ets ha. 4 aes, p. Me es F - oo ie f i
; ts ey
. ——— F om 4 fa

' al *

-” ar ’ :

y as ae . 4 .
Pe ee ree

‘
1
“7
~
i

‘ia
 

  

hour, balancing a tea-cup in one hand, seven
sandwiches in the other, surreunded by an
é admiring and enchanted throng of beautiful

8 ‘THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Shirreff Hall

‘‘Unless I marry a millionaire I don’t
expect to be living in a millionaire’s mansion seven months of the year.’’
Kinnon, Arts ’24.

Fonie’s words well voice the feelings of
the Shirreff Hall girls. How good it is to
be back again, or to be at the Hall for the
first time, welcomed by Miss Lowe’s cheery
smile, and enjoying the good things provided by Mr. and Mrs. Dixon. The coming
year promises to be full of fun and good
fellowship under the able leadership of
House President Margaret MacKay.

The first few days all sorts of discoveries
were made, such as the beautiful landscape
by Gryth Russell in the reception room a
collection of fine prints in the main hall and
ten lovely etchings by Mr. Russell distributed throughout the various sitting rooms.
Our electric plates had been replaced by gas
stoves, frightfully mysterious things, as one
brilliant Truro student on the second floor
found out. ‘‘What can be wrong?’’ she asked a neighbor: ‘‘I have had the gas on for
five minutes and the stove isn’t lighted yet”’
Her friend hated to suggest a match.

Oher items of interest have been taking
place during the past weeks. Some of the
girls thought the Hall was being burglar.
ized the other night. What was the matter?
Oh just initiation. The old girls woke the
freshies at 1 a. m., gave them sixty seconds
to dress, then dragged them to the Infirmary
in every variety of costume. There really
was no need of being scared, but the freshies
could not see that, because they were blind
folded. Everybody knows that all Gall is,

divided into three parts, but in future years
it should be kept in mind that FreshieJuniors undoubtedly possess two. As an
outstanding example of this class Miss Jean
MacRae has been ‘awarded dishonourable
mension. Also be it noted that Shirreff Hall
-jnitiations do not take place at Pine Hill. K.
Vickery actually put on her rubber boots and
rain coat to keep from getting wet on the
way down.

Speaking of that male institution, allow us
to congratulate it upon possessing such a
hero as Jarvis MeCurdy, coming to the
Alumnae Tea, uninvited, did not jar him in
the least. We challenge any other boy to
come.and stand in the Reception Hall for an

els and fever blush, A sister is a handy

ng to have for an excuse: as, jen 2

Fonie Mac
    
 

Pine Hill Post

 

When, ona September morning, Myran
Meikle and ‘‘Bearecat’’ Harrison crossed
the Tower Road bridge and came briskly
down the slope towards Francklyn St, the
the Residence cat, who was on the “‘gate-post
enjoying the sun, rose and stretched himself
and mewed a joyous welcome. Another
term was beginning and pussy called to mind
the many pleasant nights he had spent last
year in Art Youill’s bedroom.

Within a week after this auspicious opening, the transfer companies had reaped their
annual harvest and the house was echoing in
a normal manner to the sounds of high debate
and midnight revelry.

The beginning of a new term always brings
its quota of surprises—Billy Moran didn’t
get married and Billy MePhee, after a
summer’s effort, has succeeded in developing
a diminutive hirsute appendage on his upper
lip. Then also, though it doesn’t seem
possible, MacGregor Grant has had to yield
up one of his crowns to a freshman. No
longer does ‘‘Jigger’’ tower head and
shoulders above his fellows, for behold a
taller than he has appeared in the person of
Jim McLeod.

In regard to freshmen it may be mentioned
in passing that they were duly instructed into
residence life with the usual solemn ceremonies, Bill MeOdrum in his capacity as
judge and moderator exercised great restraint in meting out the penalties. No life
sentences were inflicted owing to the extreme
youth and inexperience of the defendants.

One distinguished slienist Herbie Davidson
discovered that many of the newcomers were
suffering from a ‘‘superiority’’ complex and
in suggesting a remedy to emphasize the i importance of stressing the ‘‘reality principle.’’
As a consequence young Jim Fraser was
sentenced to wear a green hand on his arm
for a week but such was his neurotic condition that he seems to have considered it as a
badge of honour. If his ‘‘superiority, complex’’ does not soon give evidence of sublimitation other methods must be adopted
The expenses of the initiation ceremonies
was greater than usual this year owing to the
enormous supply of ‘‘tanglefoot’’ fly-paper
used up in applying poultices to various

 

From Six to Sixty,--
the boys who thrill with desire for greater
athletic accomplishment are the boys who

 
   

   

  

  
 
 

 

 

portions of the exterior anatomy of ' the
neophytes. :

Carl Coffin and Sam Morton are not with
us this year but have both sent younger
brothers to take their places.

John Dunphy has started on a merchantile
career, So far, on account of the unrestricted competition and bécause of a series of misfortunes he has not realized the profits which
he expected. Though still undaunted in
spirit John has been heard mournfully quoting:

Blow! blow! thou wintry wind,

Thou art not so unkind

As man’s ingratitude.

There is not much more to report excep?
that Kenny Grant is quite enthusiastic about
the fine spirit that prevails at Kitty’s this
year. On th eother hand Duncan MacMillan
and Harry Vickerson apparently were not
entirely satisfied with the decorum of the
place and went elsewhere.

During the past summer both the exterior
and interior of the Residence have been repainted and renovated. In spite of this,
Edwin Johnstone says that we are still living

in Spartan simplicity in contrast with the

splendours of Shirreff Hall.
7 —APOSTLE

A Freshman’s First Visit
At Shirreff Hall

 

Being what some call ‘a meek and humble
freshman,’ and desiring to call for a young
lady (we called her a girl in Margaree) at
Shirreff Hall, I prepared for the ordeal by
intensive study of similar cases from ‘‘ Heroes
of. History.’’ When the appoined evening
arrived, with one hand on my throat, where
my heart persisted in sticking, and the other
on my pocket book, I approached the portals
of Shirreff Hall. ‘After using a box of
matches, I finally located the push button and
rang the bell. Suddenly the door opened and
a lady appeared, dressed in white like the one
that fed me soup out of a funnel when I was
having my tonsils overhauled in the Margaree
Hospital: I managed to mumble ‘‘I want to
see Miss So and So, and she said ‘‘Step into
the reception room please’’ (whatever that
meant). Anyway it looked like a sitting
room and thats what I used it for. Out in
the hall Miss St. Vius was giving dancing
lessons to the freshettes, while I spent a
weary hour, or was it ten minutes, craning
my neck to see if my ears were “clean on the
back of the front of them. At last the object
of my visit appeared and soon we were out of
the frightful place. |

Getting back was hard too—to arrive
neither too early or too late. We took a
trolly car, and I bought a whole strip of
tickets, just to show that money was no
object. We walked up ‘Lovers’ Lane,’ but

  

 

 

 
