ee -™”
a~—— 3 ee —_—— aatite

VOL. LVI.

NOTE

-_——_- - --—.

It is the custom to issue the Gazette in the form
of a four page news sheet twice annually. Editorials intended for this week have been crowded out
by news. Next week the Gazette will resume the
eight page form. Please hand in contributions
early.

Correspondence

 

The Gazette accepts no responsibility for views
expressed in this column.
Council,
University,
Feb, 14, 1924.

Office of the Students’
Dalhousie

To the Editor of the Gazette.

Dear Sir:—-In your issue of February 13th there
appeared a letter from Mr. Bethune, President of
the Glee Club, in connection with the conduct of a
portion of the audience during the first night
presentation ef “The Maid and the Middy.”

-It is not the policy of the Countil of the Students to enter into press discussions, but in this
case Mr. Bethune, by h’s ill-advised letter, has
broadcasted the statement that there is at Dalhousie “a group of students who by their conduct
on that oecesion brought disgrace upon the University and marked themselves as hoodlums unfit
to be students at Dalhousie,” and the Students’
Council most emphatically resents Mr, Bethune
making such statements without his laying definite charges against some student or students. The
Students’ Council does not for a moment countenance the throwing of flour and beans or any unbecoming conduct at a theatrical performance, but
as representatives of the student body we protest
against Mr. Bethune, or anyone else, broadcasting
such a reflection on the students of Dalhousie University as he has done in his letter to the Gazette.

Mr. Bethune asks for an investjgaticn by the

of the Students. In arranging for the s»called | Dalhousie night at the Majestic the Glee
Club did not consult the Seedent Council, nor did
Mr. Bethune and his ex¢ “our sanction
for holding a Dalhousie aight. All the ‘preparations were Glee Club preparations, and the Students’ Council had no diree'
audience on the wut: first prpeeniatien of

 

    
   
 

 

— LS Ta sete <A ye sensenseeee testeSSSSSSeneeteeneehsenesteene = ee -e -~-- ~ ee ee ee —
eee
LLL LLL LLL LLL te ett nonin me ne - ~ ee _

et authority over the

Dalhousie students has yet to be determ'ned. If

as —_———-—- =

 

HALIFAX, N. S., FEBRUARY 20, 1924.

 

Co-eds In Second Trial Deba‘e

The second trial debate held for the purpose of
selecting a team to debate the co-eds of Mount
Allison University wis staged by Delta Gamma eon
the evening of February 7th, at the Munroe
Room. Miss Edith Black occupied the chair and
there were five speakers. The speakers for the

affirmative were Miss Frances Power and Miss
Avis Marshall. The negative speakers were the
Misses Freda Winfield, Katherine Covert and

Clara Murray.

Miss Power was the first speaker and there was
not a dull moment throughout her speech. She
appeared to take mirthful enjoyment from the
subject and soon the audience were enjoving it
hugely too. Miss Power spoke fluently off
“Thieving High-Finance Manipulators” — and
“Millions of Dollars which would be unnecessarily
saved,” Canada she called “The sick man of
North America.”

Miss Winfield, the first speaker on the negative
side, spcke in a very natural
manner. She held her
one hantdsc

and convineing
audience  spell-yound:
me member of the intercollegiate committee. “Miss Avis Marshall was the
second speaker on the affirmative side. Miss
Marshall is a very forceful speaker. She spoke
without notes and with good control of voice and
gesture.

Miss Katherine ‘Covert was the second speaker
on the negative side. Miss Covert followed her
notes closely amd spoke in a quiet, easy manner,
Miss Clara Murray was the last speaker and was
also on the negative side of the question. Miss
Murray upheld her reputation as a member of last
year’s team against Acadia. She spoke easily and
forcefully. She had a_ clear, argumentative
speech, well arranged and well presented to the
audience.

espocially

‘ ; ann Ot A 99

. Oh’rveff Hall girls entertain at G’ee Club. E. S.
R. Cormmittce have secured a half hour additional
time for dancing after the show and will serve
refrechn:ents aftes supper dance, price 25c.
Moncy in a'd of European Students Re ief.

 

estic hes withheld $150 of the Clee Club share of.

the receipts. There has been no payment made.
Mr. O'Connell is keeping this money against the
protest of the Students’ Council. We have had an
appraiser from the Nova Scotia Furnishing Com
pany visit the Majestic and he assesses the damage

at $40, Whether or not this damage was done by

decides that it is fair that

hie es

 

 

team consisted of L.. W. Fraser (leader), ¥

 

 

 

 
 

The third and last ‘drbintiiais trial dehate for
the intercollegiate team was held in the Munroe
Room cn the evening of Feb. 18th. sidney

Gilchrist, President of Sodales, was chairman of
the debate. There were seven speakers:
the affirmative, and five on the werative side.

Avery Newcombe was the first speaker
a demonstration of wit, fluent
verbose phrases. In order to be posured of ar
was over and took h’s o:idience with him
but unfortunotely he left whenever his wy speech
wa sover and took his audience pway with hin
also, It seemed too bad that Arehi
and Longley could not have staved |
other speeches,

{wo on

ant wave
peaking and

awny

Robertson

hear the

William MacOdrum was the first speaker on the
negative side, Bill said that- in Wastern Canada
now “Here and there vou have a tottering old

man and his decrepit wife kept alive by their sons
and daughters working in the textile plaints of the
New England states and the cities of the West.’
they existed fifty years
ago in Gabarus and Monadiev, C. 1h

Robert Orr, the third speaker, «ju
and weighty statistics. He especially lamented the:
eflux of our population to the United States. F,
J. Forbes was the next speaker. IT! was a_ pity
thet his winning smile by which he tried to charm
his hearers, was wasted on an entirely masculine
audience. After a thirty minute speech, his closing
remark: “I shall now conclude,” was «applauded
vigorously.

Rod MacLeod was the second sper
affirmative side. He has a splendid
possibilities of making a good debater.

Arthur Jardine, negative speaker, could not have
been seeing straight for he began his speech by
saying: “I think all of my audience is hehind me.”

Arthur MacDonald was the Inst speaker and—
reminded the Pictou part of his’ audience, i)
ing fr his ctature, of the “Great B. M.”

The members of tho intercollegiate committee —
were present t> make a selection from the speakers.
and the selected men will take in a final trial to he a
held at a later date. 4

Ite pictured conditions as

led numerous

ker on the

voice and

 
 
   
   
   
   
 

4A + i ray

 

Dalhousie vs. McGill

 

Advisory Committee has decided that las
years Inter-collegiate team shall dehate
MeGill in Montreal on Mareh 20th. Th

 

S. Gilhiat sd Donal Malm,

Ly aN

i inf

ht | de oli
: a v v Pe a oh. Pen tl

Sone

 

  
        
 
 

  

Pe ee
Tie.
<4

—
Ice Mysteries Explained

WORLD FAMOUS SCIENTIST
SPEAKS TO DALHOUSIANS

H: T. Barnes, D. Se.,-F. R.-S.,. formerly
director of the MaeDonald Physics Laboratory of MeGill University, recently visited
Dalhousie. While in the city he gave two
most interesting and instructive lectures en
the subject of ice on which he is probably the
greatest living authority.

About twenty-five years ago, Dr. Barnes
set to work on the St. Lawrence ice problem.
At that time, the spring ice jams, and floods
eaused much damage to property along the
river. Now mainly as a result of his work,
a channel is kept open in the river all winter,
sc that the ice does not jam when it breaks
up in the spring. The value of property
along the St. Lawrenee has, as a consequence
gone up millions of dollars. It also means
that hydro electrie power plants are no longer
obliged to shut down in cold weather.

Some time ago, Dr. Barnes devised and
constructed apparatus for measuring small
temperatures. He found that a thousandth
part of a degree was often sufficient to determine whether or not ice would freeze in a
river, which fact is a striking instance of the
importance of small quantities in nature, and
their measurement. Ocean liners could be
equipped with recording thermometers, which
would indicate their approach to icebergs.

The first of these lectures, given 0” Friday
Evening, February 8, in the Technical
College, dealt with the problem of ice from
the engincering stand point. The speaker
described the three principel kinds of ice:
Conduction, Frazil, and Anchor ice.

Conduction ice, which is the ordinary ice
that freezes on the surface of ponds, lakes,
rivers ete., is one of the purest substances
produced by nature. It might well be used,
then, to fill storage batteries for automobiles,
or in any place where pure water is needed.
 ‘Prazil ice, is the name given to the long
needle shaped erystals which form in running
water, which is in the neighborhood of the
freezing point. If the water is slightly below the freezing point, these erystals form
very rapidly, like a salt from its solution.
They sometimes pile up under the surface
ice, forming great dams and bridges. Slides
were shown of some of these frazil ice dams
on the St. Lawrence river.

The third kind of ice, Anchor ice, forms
on the bottom of open rivers on a clear cold
night. There are two remarkable things
‘about Anchor ice, first, that although it is
lighter than water, it grows on the bottom, to
which it is literally anchored; and second,
that it is never known to form under bridges,
nor in any place not exposed to the open
sky. The latter fact seemed to point to
radiation as the cause of b |

   

 
 
  

&

 

, +. . 1) a ar
ay &£ ce ees vew=
oF ea dete

r= t -_,
, ‘ a
L | im “a, i ie ,' nig
Pi J * wee

 

  
   
  

 

owing

T HE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

——

SHIRREFF HALL DANCE

The girls of Shirreff Hall again entertaincd
their friends at a dance on Friday, Feb. 8. It wes

 

even more successful than their previous one.

The programs, daintily decorated by hend, gave
no hint of the leap year extra, and when it was
announced excitement ran high. Many of the
men lost their usual sang froid in experiencing
once what, to the girl, is the usual thing.

Prof. and Mrs. McMechan, and Prof. and Mrs.
Munroe were guests of honor.

The committee in charge of the dance were the
Misses [Edith Black, Fonie McKinnon, Roma
Stuart and Clara Murray. |

' —Ad_ Rein.
S. S. B. CLUB
Purely as a defensive measure (in consideration
of Law, Medicine and Pine Hill) the Arts building
has organized itself—and is now the ‘Studley
Students’ Bridge Club.’

Doug. Campbell, who did all the work of organizing, was unamiously elected President; Perley
Gates, vice-President: Wally Sedgewick, SectyTreasurer. Wally was also instructed to write
Prof. MacNeil, asking him to accept the office of
Honorary President.

It is intended to make this a real Dalhousie Club,
with an annual Bridge Party; a Bridge tournament
it to be held shortly after the General Meeting to
arrange further details.

 

The Dalhousie girls’ basketball team played a
practice match with the Halifax Ladies’ Col'ge
on Tuesday afternoon. Althcugh the score was
86—22 in favor of Dalhcusie, the game was not
at all one-sided, the H. L. C. girls having good
combination. The match was played in the H. L.
C. gymnasium, and a return match in the Dal.
gym. is expected shortly,—perhaps next Tuesday.

A match will be played with the Halifax
Academy girls on Thursday night, Feb. 21, before
the boys game with the St. John Trojans.

 

»  Sophs Enjoy Ride to Bedford

On Monday, Feb. 11, Class "6 had a_ jolly

party. Early in the evening they met in the gym-.

nasium, where four big sleighs waited to carry
them off on a drive to Bedford.

On arriving at their destination, they enjoyed
a hearty supper of beans and brown bread at the
home of Mrs. Turner, and after a cozy half hour
around the fire place, returned to the city, still
singing and full of cheer, in the wee small hours
of the morning. |

—“*Ad Rein”.

“Arts Defeated. Medicine” 4—0

Arts crushed the hopes of the Medicals aspirants
to the Interfaculty Hockey League title when they
secured a 4 to nothing victory over the’ Meds at
the Wanderers rink last Tuesday. Arts had the
best of the play and had the game well in hand.

 

 

 

yet no satisfactory explanation of |
ice. | | aI,

 

, = * i
i Mane

 

 

UNIVERSITY
OF MANITOBA

Hudson Bay Company
Research Fellowship

 

The above fellowship of the

annual value of $1,500,00, tenable at the University of Manitoba, in any branch of pure or

applied science, open to gradu
ates of any Canadian University,

will be filled for 1924 about
May lst. Applications should
be in the hands of the Registrar
of Manitoba University, Winnipeg, Manitoba, by April Ist.
Further particulars on application. Address.

 

bei Mecmne Pesenfaarthy- ete te

a i yt 2 ret , o
apace ti
re Yeh De Tay he
aap ice BP di Slee mast
ae ih ee ¥ ?

a

etki . 1 eat ar
er Oe ee eae he a Be
—s i a me fk

7

  
  

2

ae
Pe
ei

  
 
 

; oh ee

| ter athletic accom
| Soys who pick

~3° 4 7 by eT owe
ry = fs i ; Ae aL
(Opeth ee Mowe
; ‘ ¥ ’ i toe a i Rah a
; . =*
, Rete S CaN S Loner OD
he Me, a = - iat r
= ii Se Ag. Y et he, ‘

 

 

Pine Hill Post

A few of our Freshmen, away from home for
the first time, like Jardine, Dunphy, Herbie
Davidson, and Murdock Morrison, were so. far
removed from parental discipline that they could
not get up in the morning in time to catch breakfast. However, Mis. Marsters is of a mothevly
trend of rature and has assured these verdants that
she will get them out of bed in time for the
customary hot dog ration.

The stork has been thoughtful of Pine Hill over
the week end, and brought us a new babe, now
wrapped in the swaddling clothes of a freshman,
one Olmstead by name.

Morris Kirn got badly hurt recently, and his
face is so disfigured so that he is unable to attend
the “At Home.” Such is too often the reward of
chivalry.-Morris went toboganing and began to
pull the sleigh after him down the hill. Now if
that had been Myron Meikle you couldn't have
kept him off that sleigh With a pitchfork.

An alimony suit makes us wish for the good old
deys when we had legal lights like Ray Newsome,
Larry MacKenzie or John Dunlap to settle our
difficulties. Perry Knox has enticed Bob Ross’
“wife’’ from his protecting arms.

Pine Hill is well represented on the final debating trials with Archy MacKinnon, Jarvis MacCurdy, Jigger Grant and Bob Ross.

Some puzzling problems are presented to us
from time to time:

1. When is Garth Toomes making his next trip to
Wolfville?

2. What Cecil Jones on the Commerce Hockey
team meant when he said “That if you wanted
Andy Mounroe to play you’d have to get the
whole Strand chorus in front of him?”

3. Why ‘Ted’ Cumming’ was so anxious to find
out who asked Kenny Grant to the Shirreff Hall
dance?

|. If it was Art Forbes who was described by
Shirreff Hall as keeping the tete-a-tete on the

front porch?
—Tabellarius.

 

Dalhousie Beaten by Wanderers 5-1

Going into the game as slightly favorites the
Tigers were completely outclassed by the Wanderers at the Marks-Cross Arena on February 12th.

The Dalhousie sextette had an off night while
the Reds were right on and their back and poke
checking wrought havoc iwith the Tigers rushes.
Very little combination _
occasional two-man combination by the Wanderers being the only exception.

 

 
  
 
  

  
  
    

From Six to Sixty,---.

: the boys who thrill with desire for |
plishment are the |

al

 

: x

 

empted an

i:
nv

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

|

y IG an
/

MO bal!

   

{)

i

fl
|

 

PLAYER'S

| ri Ith NAVY CUT

o~

y

 
  

TTES

Ly

 

Dal 25—St. F. X. 10.

 

Dal made good their loss to St. F. X. of earlier
in the season by completely routing them in the
Dal gym on Friday night.

Both teams got away to a swift start and played a neck-and-neck game for the first ten minutes,
but the*baskets Were in Dal’s favor. Period ending 11—5.

Second half also fast but with St. F. X. too
loosely guarding their men and not equalling Dal’s
combination. Mader scored ten points for Dal in
this half., Period ended 25-10.

St. F. X.—Maynard, centre; Murphy, G. A. McDonald, forwards; McEachern, Campbell, guards;
M. McManus, H. McManus, Gillis, subs.

The Dalhousie Intermediate basketball team by

their decisive victory of 27—17 over the Wanderers intermediates on Wednesday night are now
in second place in the City League.

 

INTERMEDIATE BASKETBALL TEAM ADD
- ANOTHER.

 

Still another win was recorded in favor of

_ Baird’s Bustling Basketeers when they won from

1 the fast Halifax Academy team at the Dal gym

sf on Friday night. It was by no means a walkhe ‘ha 1

and the Academites played a fast and skilful

r .

j
‘ ii

  

SHIRREFF HALL

There are feeds and feeds but the “At Home”
of the season was that of Dr. and Mrs. MaddinMagee. Those present were Miss Lowe, Mr.
Harvey, Dr. Murray, Miss King, Miss Moriarty,
Miss Black. Cards and dancing were the routine
of the evening. Speaking of feeds, Miss Lowe
knows all about entertaining a party.

The Shirreff Hall girls are working hard at
rehearsals to make their performance at the Glee
Club a success. Many and varied are their plans,
and it seems as if it would be well worth turning
out to see. It is by the way, the first performance in the Shield Competition.

Marion Irving is welcomed back .
and most of the other invalids have
“Did you send us that Valentine, Pi

—Ack asta,

 

 

 

os ‘ica

SOPHETTES HOLD ANNUAL FEED
y a

OS ee
is 4 - 7

 

=
—

we a:
ay

ee.

\

7

4)

f

vi

7 ‘a

4

his ae!

an"

os

Tat]

*Y 7

ee

Te

; ; spe”
a ieee we
ee

Four annual fre?. have been held at Studley in
the past month,—-held in the time-honoured order
of rank, First the Senior girls, then the Juniors,
then the Sophs, and lastly the Freshettes, graced
the festive boards in the gymnasium. The Sopho- —

nores held their banquet on the evening of Mon
day, February 11; and, needless to say, it as
great success. The party was for ladies only.

     

  
 
  

      
      
   
  
 
 

  
  
   
 
 

—C.

J

  

   
 

 

Dal. 33—Wanderers 23

Dal’s First Basketball team is winding up its
season’s work with great vietories. It’s second
decisive win of last week was from the Wanderers
on Saturday night. All agree that the game was
the most exciting of the league—the teams making
basket for basket throughout nearly the whole
game. First half ended 13—11, Dal. leading.

In the second half, play. continued even until the
last six minutes, when Dal broke away and gave
their best exhibition of the season—playing cifclés
around their opponents. Result! 83—23.

Law Defeats Dentistry 3—2.

The Law hockey team put the “dent” in Dentistry when it won its second Interfaculty game at
the Arena last Tuesday morning.

Bill Gunn scored the first goal for Law after
eight minutes of play. Two minutes later “Jeff”
Flinn made a beautiful end-to-end rush through
the entire Dental team and scored Law’s second
tally.

Don MacInnes sagged the Dental net eight minutes after the second period started for Law’s
final tally. Five minutes later Lavers secured the
first goal for Dentistry with a beautiful shot from
outside the defence, and Dexter placed the puck
in the Law net fo rthe second time. just before
the period ended.

The Dents came on the ice in the third period
determined to even matters but the Lawyers fought
hard to retain their advantage. The spectators
witnessed some fast hockey in this period: and
for a while it looked as though there would be
overtime play, but neither team succeeded in scoring during the period. Dentistry claimed a third
goal on Law, but the nets had been overturned
and the whistle blown, which caused a great deal
of argument.

Allan Dunlop and Varker Hickey refereed in a
satisfactory manner. .

 

—I, L.. B.

ee ie ee eC

DENTS CLAIM THEY TIED SCORE

 

The Dentistry scrise has the following to say
concerning the Law-Dent hockey game: | ?

Dentistry and Law hockey teams played a 3—8
tie game at the Arena at 12 o’clock noon on
February 11th.
Unfortunately a dispute arose over the last goal
scored by Tupper f-om a mix-up in front of the
Law nets one minute before the gong rang. The
Law faction claiméd no goal but the goal judge
ana o«- soferee awarded the goal.”

very rapidly, '
They sometin
ice, forming gt”

 

e engineer tell us, if the sun is

wet, a+r aft ‘

<i the sky by itsybeams.

 

 

Likes A Pie

‘|| that combines style, quality, modes:y
(]| and economy. Call and see our smart |

The Cottage Gin |
A fiat

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

- Khiff's Krazy Kuts

No literature can have a long continuance
if not diversified with humor—Addision.

 

 

Captain: (to Douglas who has just retugned to Dal.from Paris). ‘‘Don’t give up the
ship my men,”’

Deug: (clinging to rail). ‘‘By gosh, Cap,
that: is about the only thing I haven’t given
up. ?

 

CURE YOUR TOOTHACHE

 

One cup water. Fill the mouth and sit on
red hot stove till water boils. It never fails.

 

REMEMBER THIS ONE GIRLS

 

A real genius is a woman who can make
her husband believe that beating carpets
improves his golf swing.

 

Unele Si: ‘‘Did the doctor local
anesthetic ?’’
Farmer Hi: ‘‘No, by heck; he sent all the

way to New York for it.

use a

 

He tried to eross the railroad track.
Before a rushing train;

They put the pieces in a sack,
But couldn’t find the brain.

 

 

_—
 

JENSEN & MILLS CO, LTD.

26 SPRING GARDEN RD.
119 YOUNG ST.

THE 2 POPULAR DRYGOODS STORES

 

PRICES RIGHT — QUALITIES
RIGHT—SERVICE RIGHT

 

Drygoods, Millinery, Ready-toWear and Ladies Tailoring

 

LS EO EO EC
Finest Materials, Lining and
Trimmings with best workman
ships at reasonable prices.

*

Clayton & Sons

Tailors & Clothiers

 

“A cap as good as the cream”

High praise for Williams Shaving Cream is contained in
this suggested slogan for the Hinge-Cap. Yet truly, the
combination of faster beard-softening, elimination ot razor
friction through lubrication of the skin, and the extraordinary care of the skin which Williams gives, has never
been equalled by any other shavingcream. And Williams
is a pure product, absolutely without coloring matter!
Begin on a tube-—compare it in every way.

after as
class at top

 

ee student is eligible. If two or more persons 61
entical slogans deemed worthy of prizes, the full amoart of

the prize will be awarded to each. Contest closes at midnight |
March 14, 1924, Winners wiil be announced as soon thereible. Submit any number of slogans but write

on one side of paper only, putting name, address, college and
of each sheet. Address letters to Contest Editor,
Te J. B, Williams Co., 1114 St. Patrick St., Montreal, Canada,

$250 in Prizes | :

__ For the best sentence of ten words or less on the value of the
- Williams Hinge-Cap, we offer the following prizes: Ist prize
$100; 2nd prize $50; two 3rd prizes, $25 each; two 4th prizes,

$10 each; six 5th prizes, $5 each, Any undergraduate or

ns submit

   

Cc .
7 : ' of '
2 Ease ‘a, et”

f
7
ch

Se

   
   
 
    
    
  
  
    
   
 
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
   
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
   
 
  
  
   
  
  
  
    
 

   
  

   
     
    
