 

 

FOUNDED 1869

 

 

ae\\)|

HALIFAX, N.8., NOV..5, 1924

 

 

The Dalhousie Gazette

Qne Dollar Per Year
D. R. Webster, B. A.

Issued Weekly
Editer-in-Chief

Assoeinte. Editors
Miss Anna Grant Mias Allison McCurdy

R,. F. Rosas, B.. A. P, Tt. Hickey, BR, A.
Faculty Editors

Mise K. Covert A. F. Macdonald

W. 8. Gilehrist A. Munroe
W. G. Dawson DL Meany
Exchange Editor - - . BD. 0. Hebb
Personals ond Secial - Mies Avis Marshall
Sports Editor - George Morrison, B. A.
Girlas’ Sports - - Miss Eleanor Barnstead

Staff Artist - ~ ~..H. A .Davidson

Overseas i aaaeitiainn ~

Pine Hill Reperter - - H.R, Nerton, B. A,

Business Manager -- - & B. Morton, B. A.
52 QUINPOOL ROAD

Phere Sack. 813

EDITORIAL

J. &. Dunlop, B. A.

 

 

The appointment of Thanksgiving Day to

fall permanently on the anniversary of the 
armistice was a mdést happy une, Never were

a people more thankful than when peace was

deelared after four years of anxiety and horror.. The Canadian people rejoiced, not alone

for the peaee but also for the victory which ©

 

had ‘brought =~ the privilege of security.

“the bridat time of law and love adness of the world’s 8 release

sick at the feet of peace Te. olan HO te ,

oth oc ciiLA

. at. any time to justify war,

but, our leaders. oonstantly, tell us| that the

era. of peace is not, ours yet. The hope thar

    

 

 

 
 

to face with, the horrors,
After

ens " mah z

 
 
 

 

: aa the i oy ‘ali

  
 
 
  
  

the great struggle was.a, war to end wars is —
now: shattered; and some day we will be face
of another eonflict.. ee”

ene OF a t ti on |
' givi nis

fields of a foreign land that the enemy might
not touch our shores. A wonderful history
of which we might be justly proud, but written in the blood of countrymen it becomes
a blot, a disgrace to our civilization.

To us as college students comes the call to
do our part to see that suen a catastrophe
never occurs again. We may be able to do
very little, but where possible we must make
our influence felt. Through our colleges the
anti-war feeling is growing and everywhere
are springing groups of pacifists; not an
apathetic but a fighting pacificism. Patriotism no longer means the sword loosened in the
seabbard for a selfish struggle, but the love
of other nations as well,

Peace is priceless, but death is preferable
to dishonor. Our nation must be built on a
foundation of honor and love with ideals
worthy of those who died to preserve them.
We must ‘‘look for a city which hath foundations ; whose builder and maker is God.’’

The Gazette takes this opportunity of wish-—

ing all students a happy thanksgiving holiday.

The Gazette extends its congratulations to
Dr. Murphy on his eleetion to the executive
of the American College of Surgeons.

The university has been saddened by the
news of the death of ‘‘Ted’’ Norwood of
King’s College and the Gazette on behalf of
the student body of Dalhousie extends it»
deepest sympathy to King’s and the stricken

. family.

 

A Maritime conference of the 8. C. A. will
meet at Mt, A, during Thanksgiving weekend, This conference will be a ‘‘Get Togeth__er’’ of all persons interested in the relig
we ious life of our colleges. The programme pro_ vides for Fellowship,—Inspiration and Fun.

 

he jtims
befor me ee ee ae

 

 

it eet ec ai fe a Thanks
Educational Democracy—Or What?

How many university students are actually
adapted to receive the sort of education which
they are supposed to be getting? According to
Dr. George Barton Cutten, President of Colgate University, only one in every ten.

Such was the statement made by a man,
who,by virtue of his position at the head of
one of the most important of the educational
institutions of the United States, should know
whereof he speaks.

The remaining nine, Dr. Cutten declared
during the course of address in which he made
some very sweeping criticisms of the American .
educational system, are utterly unfit for college instruction; not only so, but their presence
militates against the proper advancement along
the paths of learning of their felows. The product of inadequate primary training, forced into the university, and, once there, crammed with
a certain amount of “imformation,” which does
themselves and everyone else no_ ultimate
good.

Dr, Cutten’s remarks take on an added significance in the light of the opinion expressed
by the Right Reverened Bishop of Gloucester in
his sermon at Convocation Hall on Sunday.
The present generation, said His Lordship, failed to measure up to the standards of their pre
- decessors, educationaly.. The result of the ef
forts of the past century to secure general, free
education, to establish a democracy of education, had proven to be so far from what its
creator had hoped. .

That appears to be the crux of the situation
with which Dr. Cutten and Dr, Headlam find
fault. Like so much else which springs from
the most idealistic desires, thé plan. of those men
who labored with the view of giving each and.
every citizen the very best in the way of schooling, has failed. The reasons which lead to this
conclusion are obvious; there is prac no
defence for the scheme, whose greatest '
is, probably, the wilingness of those who have
received their training under it to admit its dis apopintment. The cause lies, probably, in the
fact that it was not based upon, and was inade- —
quate to create a “culture.”

Its outcome—apparently a state of society _
whose members would all, or should all possess —
a certain accumulation of book learning, a4 mediocrity gradualy sinking to loker levels. f

As opposed to present conditions, there is
set up what might be termed an educational —
aristocracy, in which higher frdinihg should be —
permitted only to those who by birth, and environment. were ereene. nee ame
vast majority there would be such instruct

   

 

  
  

   

  
 

'
:
q
‘
i”
"
Pf

'

  

eS ::70—=—eOqoOsa“@®$S$—~—aa—s— —<—<S$Soeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee

SODALES

| a

Resolved that the policy of the present government is not in the. best interests
of the Canadian people.’’

The fortunate few who were at Sodales on
Wednesday night have solemnly sworn not to
miss another meeting; it was better than any
mock Parliament cauld ever hope to be. The
‘‘short business meeting’’ proved to be a lengthy and stormy session and Don MelInnis, the
chairman, had diffieulty at times in control)ing the excitebent. tl was all about the method of choosing the debating teams and the proposed change of Sodales meetings from the
Munro Room to Studley.

At length, however, a semblance of calm
descended upon the audience and Sodales settled its judical tie, for were not now the political affairs of the Canadian people to be passed upon?

Freddy Bissett was the first speaker for the
affirmative and: resolved to leave the Liberal
party no loophole of escape, criticized them
both for what they had done and for wiiat
they had not done; he scored them on the
questions of tariff, of their attempt to reform
the Senate, ‘‘that collection of noble men,
that bulwark of democracy,’’ and of their failure to keep promises; he also dealt ungently
with the expenses of the government, with
particular stress on the ‘‘tea-pot.’’ Then,
having figuratively reduced the Liberal party
to a bruised and bleeding condition, Mr. Bissett triumphantly resumed his seat.

Thereupon was upreared the mighty form
of Art McDonald who, between the government of our country and the bitter attack of
Mr. Bissett, interposed the bulwark of his eloquence. Confidence in our rulers, somewhat
shaken by the first speech, welled up again
in every Liberal heart and we sat suffused in
a rosy glow as the speaker told us of the Golden Era, which is scheduled. to arrive in Nova
Scotia next year.

Then Carl Bethune another apostle of Avthur Meighan, pointed out a few defects of
the government, among which were its helplessness, discrimination against the East in
favor, of the west, bad faith and failure to
keep ‘the confidence of the people. Speaking
of our defenceless condition, Mr. Bethune pictured so graphically the results of Switzerland coming over to attack us that several
Law sudents were observed to leave the room
stealthily—no doubt to gather up a few valuables while yet there was opportunity.

Mr Darby, the last of the regular debaters,

showed an amiable desire to ‘‘fill in’’. In
a speech,-betraying rather greater fluency

* than taste, he again defended the poliey of
. the government and indicted the Conservative

pary with ‘‘graft on a large scale and not the
matter of a tea-pot.” 64.00 |
After this, the meeting was thrown open

ee Bs 2 — = ,4 =

rt ya i & my ‘7 se"
: +* - % view aoe, 2 «~ Gs

THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Sophomores bis Party |

 

Class. ‘27 had a “real” party on Friday evening. They assembled at the Forrest building at
seven o'clock and were from there conveyed by
motor cars, and trucks to the Bedford Lawn
Tenis Club House. As the club house was
cozy, comfortable and warm so ‘vas the party
bright, briliant and jolly. The music was supplied by the Keyes Orchestra and so excellent
was the “jazz” produced that it inspired everyone with that enthusiasin which makes a dance
“go.” Before the supper dance many of the
intermisisons were taken up in setting off fire
crackers. Outside others were shooting rockets,
and the briliant light shown aga‘nst the star-lit
sky was indeed picturesque. F. S. took particular delight in holding these rockets at arms
length and “letting her go.” After. the refreshments (by the way anyone desiring modcin methods of serving, coffee, sandwiches, ice
cream and cake may apply to the social com
 

 
  

> | ta

om
ae | a | —
To D ov het to D

. . *

that is the evestion.

Late Professor James Seth, LL.D.

 

speeches of about two r
feature, together with the informal atmos- —
phere of the ‘entire debate; made this Sodales |
night..the . )

Pw ee nh,
7 ae : a. ’ =a, a
for dise and there were some ten meetings wil
= :
z =| Ay; ne a3
vs Sag ihe = .
_ » ae Bee DL x E

mittee) a very pretty dance was seen when the
dancers held briliant sparklers. The chaperones
were Prof. and Mrs. Copp and Mrs. Fraser. The
party broke up about midnight and the drive
!.ome made the evening all the more enjoyable.
lt was very informal and one of the best that
the members of class ‘27 have ever participated
in, 1

 

Rev. A. H. Moore, New President
King’s College

 

On Tuesday evening, Octuber 28th, Rev.
A. H. Moore, M. A., was installed as President of the University of King’s College,
Halifax. Archbishop ‘Worrell performed the
ceremony of installation in the college chapel
in the presence of a gathering including the
Student Body of King’s and representatives
from practically all the Maritime colleges and
universities and from Newfoundland. The
audience then adjourned to the Main Hall of
the college, and with Archbishop Worrell acting as chairman, speeches of weleome and
congratulations to President Moore .om, the
assumption of his new dignity were given hy
President MacKenzie of Dalhousie, President
MacKenzie of Dalhousie, President Patterson
ot Acadia, President Trueman of Mount
Allison, Dr, V. P. Burke, Deputy Minister. of
Education in Newfoundland: Rev. Dr. G. J.
McDonald of Saint Francis Xavier, Professor
Vial of Bishop’s College and Professor Kent
of Pine Hill. The main event on the programme followed, namely, the inatgural address. The large audience listened to the

stirring speech of the new President with

rapt attention, and everyone felt that in him
King’s has a President of whom the oldest.
colonial university may welll be proud. The
Argosy wishes to congratulate both President

Moore and King’s University.— Argosy. |

 

wi i

minutes each, ‘This last

    

.

 

ea he Pt Se ee
o : LL atts
" as —— a i i

“se © =o abet. Te
a+ teh eee ah =o et pe 2 ! A A Se es LE ee ene fl
as. vt Aiegi 2 rien we 4 =z “4
aya

Ro Lorre i Tit i
T LM y Ofte’ * Pe y
? . = Ls Ea : » ‘ ' 3 ra o
Fy = wt San : iti 00d ft ’ Tig :
¥ == S an 5 - » _——* —e = y . 4 te * .
= ~~ 349 ha Pc ’ r +
——  e 7 - ~ ae =
le ae , ; : + 7 2
F iT

ees Zt teats ah |

The death of Professor James Seth at the
end of July brought great sorrow to his many
friends. He had beén ill for some weeks, and
had decided to retire at the end of the ses.
sion, byt was believed to be recovering his
health, when he died suddenly in Edinburgh.

Although interested in many activities, it
is chiefly as a teacher that Professor Seth
would have wished to be remembered, and in

the art of teaching he exeelled. He abhorred |

the slavish and mechanieal transcription, absorption, and reproduction of lecture notes,
and forbade his students to put on paper
more than a skeleton of the argument. For
the’ rest, he talked, discussed, questioned,
argued the pro and the con before the class,
any member of which was permitted, indeed
encouraged» to break in with questions, objections, or counter-arguments. So the class
became a feast for the mind, never a mere
weariness to the wrist. He held nothing
proved unless the minds—and not the notebooks only—of his students accompanied
him. Although so fine a teacher, or perhaps
‘because of it, he was always on the outlook
for any new truth that his sudents could
teach him. ma
He was a man of great modesty and charm
of character. Somewhat shy and retiring

himself, he was yet extremely hospitable, and

loved to gather round him a ¢irele of friends
who would find pleasure in each other’s talk
and company. Thére are men whom we like,
other whom we admire, but of James Seth
one can only say that he was loved by all.
He was unfailingly patient and kind and
generous, and many of his students have reason to remember with gratitude the time
when they asked him for help and adviee.

‘By his kindness, sympathy, quiet humor, and
tat Gig ng de Bove de

iy iy ey rj “1s 3%
deared himself to all, 7 a
He loved his work, none | weller, ana i

+ how ‘to's " = an 4 . ‘tins hy ‘ie a 1

     

fie
ed
Bae
>.

  

Fie

 
 

 

  
   
 
  

Trion
ni

a = ei 4 ee

i
‘a
hd

 

Rumor has it that the Engineers are planning
a big dance for neat teu. If they do it will
be a pippin’ for these boys can think up some
crafty aiusements. the ingenuity of the faculty will be commandeered to make it the biggest
and best for the year. We are anxiously awaiting its announcement.

The Engineers are certainly setting the pace
as regards gym. attendance. It’s no trouble to
get those nen of science to take their daily
dozen even if they do spend 10 hours a day
in the drafting room. Mr. Stirling has formed
a basketball league for us and four teams have
already competed. Watch our dust, ye cripples!

Correct this. sentenze:~ Miss B——-—y won
the ladies’ prize for the best child’s costume.

 

Olim Cives Universitatis Dalhousiae,
Pro Patria 1914-1918

 

Ten years ago I loved this fastness green
And mine were all its joys that now are yours
Of knowledge but a slender store I ween

- Had I, yet knew that Truth alone endures.

The things that made me glad were simple
Sunshine and stars, ships with their sails all

Ripe swaying wheat, a young bird’s twitter
Wind in my face: the smell of pines rain
The things I did were boyish things and few,
Pitching a straight ball, moonlight toboggan
ning, sa |
Hiking with Dad, paddling in my canoe,
Stealing the maple’s swéetness in the spring.

Challenge to me the dead in Flanders cried,

“9 you from failing hands the torch we
Oh keep it burning bright else we = ee
“In vain.” By day and night they called, and

. co ‘
obey 7 - 9 ; be tr 3 J
cle yale dane ee eT A fhe
7. © WF te SAP 0 a ead = i? ae : ,, |
.

™

Thad to leave the life of joyance here;
No more: the bird’s soft ‘note, the scent of

    

  
  

  
  

4

L* \ . Hf e
“Only the smell, of death, shells shricking
to a lead i . 7%: , |

Inly the weary hiking up the
ide my youth 1

  

:
= 4 4
id to give;
Y " 4 %) .
F “- | LZ
‘ ,
of

 

  

Set, —— I 5

\ “Mild and

\ ° Extra Fine”

 
   

\ OGDEN 'S
XQ LIVE RPOOL

2

 

LAW NOTES

 

Maynard B. Arehibald, a practising barrister of Halifax and Truro and President of
the Halifax Commercial Club, was chosen as
a Liberal standard-bearer to contest  Colchester County in the next Provincial
election. |

Mr, Archibald, who lecures in Practical

‘Statutes at the Law School, has the heartiest

wishes for his success from his many Dalhousie friends. | | | |

At a meeting of the Law Society it was decided to call the first session of the Mock
Parliament immediately, after the.Xmas

vacation.

A committee composed of Messrs. L. W
Fraser, H. B. Dickey and Roy Gushue were
appointed to make the necessary preparations

for the formal

   

CIGARETTES

/, BIRKS

    
 
 
 
   

   
 
 

\

< ®
SS

2— 0

\20'25' S.6) i

 

JENSEN & MILLS CO, LTD.

26 SPRING GARDEN RD.
119 YOUNG ST.

THE 2 POPULAR DRYGOODS STORES

>

PRICES RIG H T — QUALITIES

RIGHT—SERVICE RIGHT

 

Drygoods, Millinery, Ready-to_ Wear and Ladies Tailoring

 

 

    
  

     
 

for Class Jewellery

Gifts

  

 
 
   
’  Shirreff Hall

‘‘Backward, turn backward, o Time im thy
flight,

Make me a child again just for tonight.’’

The venerable Father aetually did this last

—
THE GAZETH
— : as

re te eee mm ee

THE CHILDREN’S PARTY

On Monday the 20th the Juniors cast aside
their puritanical, austerity and plunged into
infantile delights. Never did Citheria’s

x

oe aaa —_——— +
LS A Se EGG SS P
ro a Rede

es + : ee
oe 9 e es rns ne

cerest thanks are due not only to our hostess

but also to those’'whé.prepared the delightful programme. Tt was & party, that, for
more reasons than one will not easily be forpotted cet es mrtitt!: aeprir ite

 

PINE HILL POST

 

After their summer ‘abours on the mission
field the theologues have returned to the fold.

ly harmony which otherwise prevails in the
Residence. Whew the brow is puckered and
the brain is strained in a desperate effort to
solve the dark mysteries: of the calculus or
_ when the spirit is raised to ecstatic flights by di
Harriet Elliott who then handed it over into
Avis Marshall’s capable hands. Avis spoke
a few words of weleome to the Freshies and
then spoke of the intention of the upper class
girls to present a short programme illustrat
Monday night when several of our most ad-  ¢horys trip more nimbly than did the perc vine philosophy, suddenly and sharply there ‘5
Oe: ; ot —H. A. D. They come back in good heaith and in exce!- ' ' ing the various activities in the university
vanood weet ra shook off fittoon orc" ef *nymphs of Class °26 down P rof. Macneill’s lent spirits... All were cordially welcomed. es- ee "t ao oe consciomness ue sou-ds x Btian of ‘‘picturesque’’ ictus tlowok
this mortal coil and became as little children: \ijqe stairway. Never did ‘admirers stand pecially Bil Byers who camet in with 3 gallons . oe a K. ; ober - “ onald’s op ee he Bg -vonip ani ae nn 2
And such children! Science has made great more dazzled than did the gaping swains THE JUNIOR’S PARTY of Conservative ice cream tucked under his  greamy student is in danger it bette ‘toate selat. and . ctharwlan.. Athiotion jacheding
r ,

strides when a child of eight is six feet tall

below.

 

arm.

back to reality by melody murdered to the tune

ground hockey, ice hockey, gymnasium and

and one of six is three feet broad. , Sutherland McLeod and Frank Archibald still
i dapte.l uther cLeod and Frank Archibald sti t  geeeyy ' ee '
The Junior’s eurls, bows and chubby knees eee Se at oe antiiad It is an ancient Senior, bear traces of their wild summer in the West. Y on ye crane - OT Bleck Joe. swimming, basketball, badminton and
gi p And he stoppeth two of three, Their faces are bronzed by the prairie sun and is with deep regret that we feel called fencing were the main features. Then fol
were the envy of the house. Miss Lowe seemed
to realize the tender years of her charges for
at parting she bade them remember their

manners, and be sure to be ready when Papa —

ealled at half past nine. ;

Lately Anna Wilson has diseovered that .1l
sorts of interesting things happened at midnight in the Hall. Her soul longed to photograph some of them, so she extrusted Edna
Ningie with the task of buying flash sheets,
but when Anna opened the pareel she found
fly sheets. Poor Anna! All her hopes dashed !

We would like to suggest to the girls taking Senior Duty in the evenings that there
is such a thing as being too economical with
the electric light. We agree that all lights,
not in use, should be put out, but look here:
even if there is not a sound when you enter
the reception room, and even if you don’t
see a soul anywhere please don’t put out the
light, because somebody might be entertaining a guest in the farthest aleove like they
were last Friday night when sudden darkness enveloped the scene.

We are all very mneh interested in Marion
Irving’s case—such a pitiful affair! For the
last three weeks she has had two love birds
epnstantly in her room. Some of us think
that perhaps she is consoling herself for the
loss of some dearly beloved, and in their
billing and cooing living over again by-gone
days. Others of a more cynical nature maintain that she has them there merely to mark,
learn and inwardly digest their conduct

os — > ee ee 7 ad prize winners: girls, Misses Berry, Fitz-Ran- 414, ang geionce 537 + 13 duplicated | in a democratic fashion all classes mingle, to:ab- } } rw
.. Knights of King ut! Days of ehiv- dolph, and Robb; boys, Aubrey Price: -Allie pees sorb, et with their toast, the feas | ‘the cognescent ™<; ,
alry! Don’t. we all dream of them? But, enna Bingo gy Se McCurdy, fn, = ‘ ; per on lie! by Al Cumming and that hore ses ‘Sele Olakabine It is a toes KELL S
girls, they. are'with us yet. One magnani- §, DP, Piers, Herbie Davidson and Wilfred Beer yer o aa comes spontaneously from Bingo omens x aa ere y eitie.a Mane: itiateen |
nious cavalier has been discovered among the Creighton—almost! acai okniie te kei Dentistry A tarrison. ui Fane new Bridge ‘makes « } |
youths of Dalhousie. It was rumored he had — The children’s party wa’ an experiment | _ But we f ‘admit that there is one dis- | | emAe A: . rete

ve his services as escort to the Med and an abundantly successful oné. Our sin- Total a of cordant note which mars somewhat the heaven- mOUnS - hee: GRANVILLE ST.

Dance. - Immediately to the telephone——-!

Poor central was kept busy ringing up where
this ‘‘somebody’’ lives, But who is he was

when behold the exultant Edith proceeded to
unravel the mysteries of London Bridge.

As the games followed swfitly upon each
other’s heels mirth mounted higher and higher. Allie Thompson called forth peals of
laughter and exclamations of praise as only
Allie ean. Bingo with a voice quivering with
emotion extolled the charms of his beloved
Barbara Celarent. But the crowning triumph of all was Miss Robb’s vietory at Musical Arms.

Then came the ice cream, the cake and best
af all, the all-day suekers. Never before werv
there all day suckers like these. But although
they were finished with enthusiasm it is safe
to say that there were not a few little boys
who would willingly have changed places
with certain of those very same _ all-daysuckers.

After supper Misses Janet and Edith
MeNeil delighted their audience with artistie dances. Next Bud Smith and Allie
Thompson traced strange and various figures
on the floor. K. Vickery then appeared heside the piano, Her dainty costume, her unbound locks and her demure facial expressions combined to remind us of Sir Joshua
Reynold’s ‘‘The Age of Innocenee.’’ But
when those coral lips parted and the harmony streamed out, her select and diseriminating audience was spell bound —

The costumes were alway realistic and
éometimes artistic. ‘The following were the

 

  

By thy Ku Klux Klan and great. big bow,
Now whither away ?’’ said he.

‘‘The Jolly Juniors’’ party’s on,
And we are of that class.

The rest are met, the games are set>
Goodbye—the time doth pass!’’

And soon they reach the festive rooms,

And what a sight they see!

Short skirts, short hair, big bows, long curls,
And many a dimpled knee.

The ganies they play are all well known:

As ‘‘Gathering Nuts in May;”’

And bumps received from musical chairs ( ?)
Cause many a “ne to say:

‘*Let’s stop this now and have a dance,’’
So Johnnie started in,

And Doug. and Charlie helped him make
An awful, jazzy din. :

But one o’clock came all too soon—

The lollypops were gone.

At last the guests have started home, :
To fall asleep at dawn.

 

Dal Registration.

     

i, ; 4
=i i tag
a

‘ i
. «WJ
’ 1%
’

* =
:
,. 2 = fi q i r y ef f " P
Nova Scotia J

       
 

they walk with that gait peculiar to men who
have spent long days in the saddle. Many and
breezy are the tales they tell of bears, buffaloes
and beautiful women.

Frank Archibald has a thrilling series of pictures which he will show you if you treat him
right. There is one especially gripping where
he is mounted on a bucking broncho and in
the art of roping a frisky steer while in the
= ground a fair lady applauds him vigorously,

Soon after the theologues had got back and
had washed the dust of the wilderness from
their faces, popular interest began to centre in
the Students’ Council or Papal election. The
list of nomination grew steadily and when the
hour for voting arrived the electors attended in
a body. As a result of the voting Cecil Blanchard now occupies the Papal chair with a
staunch and able group of ecclesiastics to assist
him. One noteworthy feature of the result is
the strong predominance of Cape Bretoners in
the Papal Council.

Midnight symposiums (N. B. This is not a
reference to meetings of the K. K. K.) are not
unknown at Pine Hill. Shortly after eleven
o'clock tantalizing odours begin to float about
the corridors. But there is no stuffy smell of
coffee boiling over’ and no loud hospitable
voice calls the guests together. Ah. No. Quietly
and unostentatiously the feasters assemble to
partake of milk and toast in Myron Meikle’s
room. There is no cake piled high with frosting
and no shrieks and giggles break the midnight
silence. Discrimination between freshmen and
seniors in the matter of feeds is unknown but

     

upon to mention the fact that Bill McOdrum although officialy invited to attend Kitty’s again,
has been warned that no drunkeness will be
tolerated this year.

Since Herbie Davidson got a prize at the
children’s party for being the best dressed little
boy, the Pine Hill cat wants to know: “If there
is any good reason why J. Gerry Olmstead
shouldn’t get a prize for being the best dressed
little girl in Dalhousie?

Apostle

DELTA GAMMA

 

It was with a very different feeling than
that of the former time that the Freshies of
Dalhousie entered the halls of Sherriff Hall
on Saturday, October 24th. This was the
solemn and momentous occasion when all
newcomers were received into Delta Gamma.
At 8 o’clock. the meeting was opened by

     

  

 

  

lowed the S. C. A., debating and the various
clubs of the University, and finally those
most interesting events of Shirreff Hall, the
Shirreff Hall dances. When every possible
branch of college life at Dai had been illustrated the neweomers were received into
Delta Gamma in the usual manner. The business part of the meeting consisted of the election of representatives of Delta Gamma for
each class—for the Junior, Allison Fitzrandolph and Jean Messenger; for the Sophomore, Helen Wickwire and Mabel Borden and
for the Freshmen—Minnie McLean. After
refreshments, which pleased even the most
fastidious, the first real meeting of Delta
Gamma broke up.

Prof. Stewart (in philosophy I, standing up
boldly before the class) “Now Miss Vickery is
not this a case of undistributed middle?”

Miss Vickery—“ Sir-r-r-r.”

     

(LLL LMM

Fall GLOVES|
and CANES |

are a ‘‘Kelly’’ specialty—which means
a full range of the latest and best at
moderate prices.

    
       
   
     
   

 

U-NEAT PRESSING

: ih Wir a y
the great question. Ah! there you have us. ar 8 ea
His‘name was kept a great secret and only N Do | ated a
his telephone number was divulged. But why ursery terrae wendy» ou cen rere your “y ARLORS
should such a little matter phase a Shirreff . ! ) ee ee rly—as well as your ORIGIN AL BOB LEARY, |
: ' \ Mamager

Haller? One after one’ they trooped to the

 

  

f
7 Fy . ,« :
ar
g * & .
=

 

;
Tj ‘5. eu .
7 iJ a> :
é :

a rer
04 naa dj
- 4
P {>

 
  

   
 

   

  
 

particulat benefit to etudents away

 
 

 
   
   
 
 

   

 

   

   
     
 
 

    

   

      
  
 

   
  
 
 
    

   
  
 

 
 

    
 

  
   

  
  

 
    

 

    
 
 

     
    

   

       

   

     

phone to plead their case and get a bid. ee asia home who are used to having |
. The first girl said he had a nice voice and bh ts cali Ae ee ) k after their mending =f Economize in Pressing by 8
4 girl sa © 8 ce vosse Pepin he 2) ale ie ‘hree Phones tte: Ht: hit! Mother's Service Will Attend to All S of 4 (ets for |
sounded as if he had sort of fair hair. The ge Spi ig SU re RU a ae trip Tickets for $2.00. |
‘ ‘ ‘ : r\ Pee Y eee t : ae) sl / a > eee ;
second one that he talked an awful lot and | | | Sila Alt’ ak Sel ti ‘ii | 1 Worn Each tieket pene ad eee mS io
shid such tice things. However, taking all: Goro! od). cx ole) ae ee ee eee eee nee ae ee ne Eee Charge at an Crna eee ee a | -o
_ the on together we've been able to . ike x bo dun’ ©) 2 WEOE IO Welos BUUUECLo F LEIALLS AD «x, k Du | ‘ Our Ragalar Hate is 78e 0) Suit A
- disentangle the facts that he takes classes at SAF Oe” Bion otbetgaltee Ja obieedthad’? i TUN ha LD). mea See | i ial Lt
: : tangle . ] : that ; - x | ‘gta Tide tee oe, \* _ beorrtzentl) Tt 7 gees. Oe oe ad es ra oe ee %4 ’ ¥3 Seis > ¥ ee ‘a 7 ; i Bie . * hand tC “hae ra us, | =. - a .
he Forrest. Buildir has relatives . | aa re er M im . oe! oe, aes ee cia ew fp Dt lay Weg M SPOT wey. EPAIRS ALI F
Mies EU ‘Bam as heanensd ‘vad oul ob git it Gage an Te. gat) <chemak weer. “ek St BEER ae es tf AW . a > 1g 3 ae.” ade oe ee eeuth tenes ae
| T yomI ey eat eee. ae a ee fe, mvt Hho bt aie sa ee, eee : ¥ ANVI STREET |
ag ks. Me Oe Ooo ae pines ee ak nell ee ‘Phone Sack. OE a ere ee eer we wee |
| , ite ae BATE ak th RIE hai: il een lad lig? Vedhitapeian -~ al 40 a

=>

_ a 4 rs a hg Siig en ye
saa ee Fi Py an "
hs 2 ee era Ate fal yf eee
tt. elt aa Tee ,

. #24
,. * * é ‘y
“es pees ae it e é "e'w a4 = * . —— a i ae an he) x
; en a: ett Peace ae ee The
‘ = s aka ae ae A i == €;

(oe lees ES =
bee) ahi 2

 
 

PERSONALS

Death of “Ted” Norwood

The very sudden and accidental death of
Robert (Ted) Norwood is learned with much
sorrow by both Dalhousie and Kings students.
In fact, the whole country side was shocked
when they learned on Friday morning that Rev.
Dr. Norwood’s only son had been killed by a
bullet from his own rifle. Ted and several
photographers, game wardens and guides had
been at Lake Rosignol, Queens County, taking
a series of moving pictures of the “game” in
that part of the country. They had completed
their mission and were preparing to return down
the lake by canoe. Mr. MacLaughlin, one of
the party, was seated in one end of the canoe
and Ted was endeavoring to get his rifle fixed
in the bottom when somehow it slipped and the
gun went off shooting him, threugh the heart.
He died within a few minutes. His body was
buried at Hubbards.

For the past two years Ted has been a student at Kings College and on leaving last May
he took a position as manager of Phil Moore’s
camp at Lake Rosignal. It is said that he planned to return to the college this November.

Ted had won at Kings the very highest esteem of his professors and fellow students,
and was exceedingly popular at both Dalhousie
and Kings. He was bright and had an attractive personality, a good sport, and zealous in
all college activities. Both Kings and Dalhousie have suffered a great loss and the students
learn of his death with deepest sorrow, their
sympathy goes out of his family and relatives
who, too, have lost a wonderful friend.

 

The many friends of Edith Sutherland. are
very sorry to learn that she has been ill and
that she is now in the Victoria General Hospital.
We trust she will make a speedy recovery and
soon be able to attend her classes as Dalhousie
again.

 

Congratulations are extended to Horace E.
Read, L. L. B. (Editor of the Gazette 1923-24),
by all Dalhousians, on being awarded the Pugsley Scholarship in International Law at Harvard and thus bringing further honour to his
Alma Mater. ~

   
 

Phone Sack. 1391

   

Fur. ished Rooms

Mader’s Cafe

15 Granville Street
Are ae a

     
    

THE DALHOUSI

GROUND HOCKEY

 

To all the Dalhousie girls and especially to
the members of the team, the fact that there
is to be a match between Edgehill and the Dal
girls in ground hockey, is of great interest. This
game is to be played in the morning of November 8, at Windsor. A number of rooters
will probably accompany the fair players and
it is to be hoped that they will cheer them on to
victory. This is the first time that the Dalhousie ground hockey team has ever met a team
outside the city and everybody is eager to win.

Great interest has already been shown in
ground hockey this season but Manager Edith
Macneill is anxious that still more players turn
out. Even if you have no chance for the team
this year at least you are giving the team
someone to practise against and perhaps you
will make it next year. From now on there are
practises every day: on Monday, Wednesday,
and Friday, from 4 to 5, and hitting practises
which are very important, on Tuesday and
Thursday at 11 30. The team-has not yet been
chosen so everyone has a chance to make it.

On Friday, October 31, there is to be a prac
tise match with the Halifax Academy players.

Also on Wednesday, November 5, the H. L. C.
team wil again face the Dal team in a friendly
game. These matches are very interesting to
watch so come out and cheer for our girls.

 

BASKET BALL

Last year the Dalhousie girls’ basketball team
received a challenge from the University of
Maine, Orono.
this as the year’s schedule had already been
planned. Again this year the. challenge has
been renewed. to’ play ‘either at Orono or at

“Halifax. The girls of the University of Maine

seem very anxious to meet the Dalhousie girls
in sport. Very little is known about their ways.
of playing, but in any event it would probably
mean avery interesting game. This matter is
being seriously considered ‘and it is to he
brought up before the Students’ Gene at

their next meeting.

GYM VESTS. |
in the college colors have just arrived,
they are splendid value at $1 75 each.

SLEVELESS SWEATERS

all colors, have been. marked at special |

prices for quick sale. $2.00 and up. —

 

  

 

It was decided not to accept |

 

a + %
_ Sauna
J 7
we +

riatcoe memes .

Scotts Men’s Wear

30 SPRING GARDEN ROAD

Headquarters for Dal. Boys

A splendid stock of furnishings of all
kinds, Winter Overcoats, Hats and

Caps, Gaberdine Raincoats and Suitcases and Bags.

ASK FOR ONE OF OUR DAL. CARDS

DON’T FORGET WE'RE ON THE
CORNER

From Six to Sixty,--
the boys who thrill with desire fer greater
athletic accomplishment are the boys who

EQUIP
 

MENT

 

Com to

CRAGG. BROS. CO... eT

BARRINGTON 8ST.

FOR ANYTHING YOU NEED IN
EVERY LINE OF SPORT

PHOTOGRAPHER
501 BARRINGTON ST. |

Phone S. 1395

Now seth time to have. |
your Group Photographs made.

Special Rates to Students

HIGH CLASS BARBER |

Up to daie Shop, with four chairs

_ and fret clase barbers in attendance, —

 

 

 

 

_ INTERMEDIATES DEFEAT WANDERERS —

—————-—__----
SECOND TEAM WINS

 

The Second Football Team are now Champions in the City League Intermediate Series.

Prior to last Saturday’s game the standing
was 2—1 in favor of Dal. By tying the Wanderers on Saturday with a three all talley, they
are now winners of the league.

The game on Saturday was keenly contested throughout, the Dal juniors playing their
usual clever game; however the Wanderers
were out to prevent a win and tackled well
although they were able to work in very little
half line play. Dal’s half line on the other hand
showed fine form and were several times within an ace of scoring. Harry Edwards, fullback of the opposing team, by his excellent
tackling, was instrumental in preventing at least
three certain trys.

Jackson, a Kingsman, who has played a fine
game on Dal’s teams this year scored the only
try for the winners,

The Second Team deserves much credit for
its splendid showing this year and the management of next year’s Senior team may rest assurred that there is plenty of material ready.
Without exception, they worked hard and justly
won their title.

Dal line-up:

Forwards—Coleman, Ernst, Hogan, Winfield,
Grierson, Harrington, Hebb.

Quarters—Miller, McQuarrie,
(capt.)

Halves—Wood, Smith, Doull, Jackson,

Fullback—Piercey.

Langstroth

D. Meny—Sir, is the demand for garters inelastic or elastic?

Prof.—Doubtless Mr. M. you have had more

experience in that line than | have.

THE; ‘DALHOUSIE, GAZETTE

WANDERERS WIN 21—3

 

The Wanderers defeated Dalhousie by a
21—3 score on their own field on Saturday last.

The league had ended with the previous game
but the Reds, possibly deciding that they did not
deserve the title of “Champions,” challenged
the Dai squad to play an exhibition game.

The challenge was accepted with some hesitation by Manager Bruce since some of his men
were laid up with injuries.

However the chalenge was accepted and as
the score indicates, the Wanderers made their
title safe.

In the first half, the Dal outfit played a fine
combination game and looked like winners; the
passes were sure and the forwards, always dependable were following up and tackling well.
The Wanderers were not up to their usual
mark, were fumbling their passes, and several
men were playing an “off-side’” game (which
one member in particular suceeded in doing
throughout the whole game.)

This period ended 3—3, Hunter having made
a try for the Wanderers, and Haslam having
obtained the Dal points on a long-distance penalty place kick. Haslam’s kick was from 45
yards and was perfectly done.

The tables turned in the second half. The
Tigers became more careless in their passes and
slower in their tackling. The Red’s half line
got into old time shape and started to speed
up, with the result that they evaded Dal opposition and scored several times.

Gushue, halfliner, and Slipp, receiving quarter, were unable to play with the Dal squad
owing to injuries received in the previous game.
Their places were filled by Coster and Wickwire of Kings, the former playing half line and

 

PROTEST DISALLOWED

 

The City League Committee decided against
Dal’s protest of the third game of the League.

Contrary te the general opinion, the protest
was not based on the fact that Lane was in
touch just betore going over the line for a try
but on the ground that Lilly had kicked the
ball, while in touch, severa! minutes before the
above mentioned. During the interval, play
had stopped and started again several times
and the referee was not told that the flag had
been raised until after the try had been made.

The standing of the Intercollegiate Leagues
to date is as follows:

Eastern Section:

King’s defeated Tech. Octo. 20. Score 8-3.

St. F. X. defeated Tech at Antigonish. Oct.
29, Score 15-3.

St. F. X. is slated to meet Kings in Halifax
on Nov. 12.

Western Section;

U.N. B. defeated Acadia at Fredericton, Oct.
23. Score 19-3.

Acadia defeated Mt. Allison at Wolfville, Oct.
30. Score 12-8.

Mt. A. will met U. N. B. at Sackville on Nov.

th.
Play-off, Nov. 14, at Sackville.

 

the latter receiving.
Dal line-up:
Forwards—McLean, Baird, Elliot, J. Sutherland, McCurdy, D. Sutherland, Tupper.
Quarters—Bates, Beardsley, Wickwire.
Halves—McOdrum, McInnis, Coster, Haslam,
(Capt.)
Fullback—K. Jakeman.

 

 

:
ep V8 gectind.
4°

fre aon natn |
° 4

sea Ee i av Aeiiiitue cee iota wal alte

THE: PACKAGE OF 20 wnt HAS BECOME

*, ee 4% 
s - ‘Tes
a whet i 1% +
1 P 7 * y* ; J
, , oe wr Ne et @ a }
A ‘ 7:
nm, x G i
» —, : es , ¥
‘Were 4 4 er Pug a?
er Siti jne cial «ek

      
   
   
 

 

CLOTHES SEEN AT
THE COLLEGES

SUITS, OVERCOATS AND

FURNISHINGS
To Please The College Man.

W. F. PAGE

Cor. George and Barrington Sts.
HALIFAX

 

 

Dalhousie
Students

WE EXCEL IN

Students’ Loose Leaf Books and
other Students’ Supplies of
all sorts.

Frank M. O’Neill & Co. Ltd.

160 GRANVILLE STREET

 

ALLEN’S

The Leading Bookstore

 

 

 

BOOKS ON SCIENCE, ART
POETRY, FICTION, Ete.
Also School amd College Text
Books.

Commercial and Society Stationery.

T € ME & Oo.

124-126 GRANVILLE ST., HALIFAX, N. S.

Ct eee eel —_— =

mt ee a ee. +

Bob Johnson's

FIRST CLASS SERVICE

Bn vu

 

| a
JOKES ee

o

Professor Stewart, illustrating connotation, .

“Does the word ‘John’ mean anything to you,
Miss. Macneill ?”

Edith—“Well—er, not ‘John’ in general, but
perhaps ‘John’ in Particular.”

 

Professor Munro, explaining superstition—
“Now suppose a man were walking along a path
in a forest, and a tree fel down and killed him.
Would he be apt to use that path again?”

 

Allison McCurdy at the football game, to the
girl behind her: “Mabel, is one of your knees

longer than the other?”
Mabel—‘‘No, one is mine and the other is

Anna’s.

 

Hope Hamilton—Elizabeth, what’s wrong
with your hair? What have you done to it?
Elizabeth Morton—‘Oh! I’ve just washed it.”

 

Harriet Roberts—“Why in Russia you can
get three divorces a year and be married three

times.
Margaret McCurdy-—What!.

ones?”

to different

 

Professor in Philosophy 12
“You may note that Cicero and Julius Caesar
eattended the university at Rhodes.
Freshman to Senior;
Well, that’s the first time I ever heard that
Cicero and Julius Caesar were Rhodes Schol
ars.

'

The Green
Lantern

   

,

 

| i a restaurant where pure foods are ||

|]] served at moderate prices. Light lunches
1! ond Ice Cream ore very popular here

— ee

Salsas ineeepeetea in ieeaenRnnRSSENEnDInneemeenett aeeeemenei ieee

 

. THE DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

A FAT MAN'S! LAMENT
> —

i wa afife so sad and drear,
It’s little less than Hell:

 

"For always am I full of fear

Because the doctors tell

That every time I take a bite

Of candy: cake, or pie,

It’ll make me even a worse sight,
Oh would that I might die!

One day I sent away and bought
Some records far renowned,

On which there was a sure way taught
To lose weight pound by pound.

Day in, day out, I labored then;

My muscles ached and pained,

My hunger was increased by ten,
But spite of all, I gained.

At last I had a flash of light !—

I’d join a travelling show—

And be the biggest man of might,
That e’er the world did know.

Alas! my dream but made men think
That I had lost my sense.

So now I sit and mourn and shrink
Behind a mad-house fence.

 

Al——e: “I gave Art the thirty-second degree at the Med. Dance.”

_ Jean: “I didn’t know you were a Mason,”

_ Al——e: “I’m not, but isn’t that the freezing
point.

- ALPHA; BET

You know the rest of
this Alphabet but won't

you learn the music from a music dealer's
text book. It starts like this:—

     
   
   
   
   

bye " -_
ei 05 RS rae
* i * Ae Tg AS & es

os es J

“= —_— sy , : ie
ee eee a as 2 eat ts
a ie 5 sea a fy A td .! %a eed Re Se .
