   
      
   
    
  
   
    
    
  

; ’
~~ a =
A
se, = ‘
A aa a I]
Jl pa a *
+. ;
+ Al <i

= a

j

 

Ps ee

‘Thomas D. MacDonald, B. A.
81, a graduate in Law this year,
has been selected to represent
Dalhousie as candidate tor the
-——s« two-man debating team which
—___will go to England about October
‘w= dst. The National Union of
-—s Students of England.and Wales
(bas invited the N. F..C. U. S$.
to send a team to England and
the officers of the Federation
_ have decided to choose one man
_ from the Maritime Universities
and one from the Western Can adian. The team will leave a- bout October Ist, make a tour
be of the English and Welsh universities and leave for Canada
about December 10th.
The name of T. D. MacDonald is submitted to a committee
a ot the N. F.C. U.S. along with
a candidates from the other MariMer time universities, and Dalhousie
will wish him every success. In
1930 Mr. MacDonald was leader
of the Intercollegiate Debating
Team. He is a good speaker,
a quick thinker and has take1
an active part in Debating.
In 1931 he received the B. A.
degree and in 1932 was Editor
‘ of the Dalhousie Gazette and
‘President of the Round Table
Club. This year he ably leads

5 the Liberals and was Premier
a of Mock Parliament. He is
- -—s prominent in the Law Society

- . and well-known on the campus.
_ Other nominations etps received from Arthur Patillo, Ray
/ McCarthy, Julius Rosenblum,
We 2:42 80D Kanigsberg ard John Fish
 

\ = er. \

la 2. 3 '
Prof. Douglas To
Talk on Antarctic

a It is anticipated that there
| _will be a large audience at this
-week’s lecture of the Dalhousie
Series (Friday, 8.15 p.m.).. The
lecture will be an account of
Sir Ernest Shackleton’s expedition to the South Pole, and will
be given by G. Vibert Douglas,
_ Professor of Geology at Dalhousie University. Professor
~~ ‘Douglas was the geologist on
that expedition. The lecture
will be illustrated by lamten

_- slides.

—
ne

be ee

Professor Douglas is a Cana:
dian, and a graduate of McGill
University. He was a lecturer
in Geology at Harvard University for three years, and while
there studied under Professor
Lindgren at the Massachusetts

Institute of Technology. During the Wai, he served with the
17th Northumberland Fusiliers,
in France and Flanders and
won the M. C. He was, for a

time, Chief Geologist to the

Rhodesian Congo Border Con
a cession. More recenily, he was

Chief Consulting Geologist to

the Rio Tinto Company, where
ihe - worked with Sir Auckland
 +Geddes. He is a Fellow of the

i ae _ Geographical Society.

See

The expedition to the Ant
ak arctic, which Professor Douglas

___-will describe oa Friday evening,

__. sailed from England September,

1921. A few months later, Sir

Ernest Shackleton died, but the

___ expedition still proceeded south,

and lasted just about twelve
months, The slides, which will
be shown, were made fiom'photo_ graphs taken by Professor Douglas, and will give a vivid notion

of polar exploration.
-, ay i

P \ alee r
bh ve

ae

NE A CE

ee

 

 

eT. D. McDonald May Go To
_ England on Debating Team

 

Student’s Council
_ Holds Meeting

The Students’ Council met
last Sunday and the agenda
included many important items.
Application was made to the
Council by the Girls’ Ice Hockey
Team for permission to play
the Abbie Sisters of Charlottetown. The visiting team wanted a guarantee of fifty dollars
and the Dal girls would have to
pay for the Forum. After considerable discussion it was decided to leave the matter in the
hands of the executive of the
Council and if the Forum could
be obtained at a cost of twenty
dollars they were empowered to
grant permission for the game.

A budget for Ping Pong was

submitted which provided for a
new table and accessory equipment at a cost of twenty-one
dollars and fifty cents. It was
passed in due order.
_ A committee to represent Dalhousie in the arbitration with
Kings to reconsider the old
agreement between the two universities with regard to the fees
paid by the Kings students to
the Dalhousie Students’ Council was appointed ; the committee
appointed being Messrs. Murray
Rankin and Whit Cameron.

Notices of the forthcoming
Students’ Council Election were
approved and it was decided
to hold the D. A. A. C. elections
on the same day, March 7th.
A budget for Badminton was
submitted and passed. It provided for the restrining of eight
racquets af $2.50 each. A proposal for a Munro Day was introduced and Mr. Fred Wigmore
was appointed chairman of the
committee to consider the feasibility of the suggestion.

Mr. Thompson then introduced a few suggestions for the
consideration of the Council:
(1) That a regular meeting of the
Council should be held each
month instead of just calling a
meeting when sufficient business
warranted it; (2) that those responsible for drawing up budgets should be present at the
Council Meeting when presented
for consideration; (3) that the
duties of the Freshman Representative should be extended
so as to make him co-treasurer
of the Freshman Class Society,
and he countersign all cheques.
Definite action on these suggestions will be taken most p1obably at the next meeting.

The Committee of two students and two professors to
determine the student or students who will receive the Malcolm Honor Award this year
was appointed. The students
on the committee are Fred
Wigmore and Hal Connor.

It was decided to hold a Dal
night at the Forum after the
Hockey Game Wednesday. ~

The following Council Members
were absent Don Mahon, Louis
Christie.

—— —»>< > - ——

I.S.S. REQUESTS PLAYING
CAR

Playing cards for the use of
the unemployed men working
at Citadel Hill have been long
needed. Anyone having any old
decks is asked to give them to
Flint Cahan or Doris French,
and help out a good cause. Also
if any magazines are on top,
sent them along.

 

Official Student Publication

TG.

   

HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA, FEBRUARY 15th, 1933.

nzette

at Dalhousie University

 

No. 15

 

Geneva Delegate |Decision Granted
Speaks on League jto Ontario Team

— ——.

 

ee

Dr. H. F. Munro addressed
a mass meeting of students last
Thursday at noon in the Chem.
Theatre on The Thirteenth Assembly of the League of Nations.
Dr. Munro was one of Canada’s
delegates to the Assembly.

The speaker outlined briefly
the principle of the balance of
power which for centuries has
kept Europe in a constant state
of fear and which has precipitat
ed a great war at least once in
every hundred years. “The
only thing that the Great War
proved,” said Dr. Munio, ‘‘was
that a world empire is impossible.” Realizing this, and realizing further that another war
would destroy our civilization,
the statesmen of the world inserted in the Peace Treaty a
constitution for a League of
Nations. Dr. Munro described
the structure of the League,
mentioned some of its defects
which can be remedied only
through a change in public
opinion, and impressed the faci
that our generation is 1esponsible
for the survival of our civilization.

Referring to the Thirteerth
Assembly of the League, Dr.
Munro said that iis proceediags
were less interesting than usual.
The depression, the trouble between China and Japan, and
between Bolivia and Paraguay,
cast a pall of gloom over the
Assembly. One bright spot,
however, was the admission of
Irak to League membership;
this is an indication that the
mandate system is not, as many
people thought, merely disguised
annexation.

Dr. Munro spoke under the
auspices of the S.C. M. Walter
Mutch, the president of the
local unit, was chairman.

Minstrel Show To
Come off Tuesday:

Maritimes. Under the auspices
of the Delta Gamma

acting as chairman.

Prior to the debate Bill Jost,
president of the National Federation of Canadian Students’
Association at Dalhousie spoke
briefly of the aim of this association in sponsoring these debates
between Canadian Universities.
His wish was that this experiment, in reality, might be truly
successful and prove to be a
means of promoting friendship
among. the universities.

The Ontario team represented
by Miss Marjorie Rean, Western
University and Miss Isebel Jordan, Toronto University were
victorious over Miss Ruth Crandall, Dalhousie and Miss Lilian
Fraser, Dalhousie. The Dalhousie girls upheld the affirmative of the resolution, “Radio
broadcasting does more harm
than good.”’

Miss Ruth Crandall, who
was the first speaker stated that
inasmuch as the Canadian Government found it necessary to
appoint a Radio Commission to
remedy the ills already effected
through broadcasting, radio
must be certainly doing more
good than harm.

Miss Marjorie Kean, first
speaker of the negative upheld
that since radio was giving
pleasure to the majority it was
certainly doing some good. The
greatest good is giving greatest
happiness to the majority of
people and the harmful influence
of the radio effects only the
minority.

 

 

Munro Day to be
Held in March
The Glee Club President an- ————

nounces that a minstrel show; During the first week in March
will be put on next Tuesday) the students will be granted a
evening. The players have been| holiday, known as ‘Munro Day’,
practising regularly and the show] Plans are being drawn up to
promises to surpass any of the|make this a Dalhousie getperformances staged as yet in| together day; Mr. Fred Wigmore
the new Dalhousie Gymnasium.|has been appointed chairman
The cast is an exceptionally |of the entertainment committee;
good one and everybody is en-|tentative plans are that there
thusiastic. The show is under|shall be a tea dance from four
the capable direction of Mr.|to six, and then a Glee Club
Bob Weitz, who has had con-|show, with a varied program of
siderable experience in drama-|sports. A buffet lunch will be
tics before coming to Dalhousie. | served in the gymnasium.

 

  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
   
 
  
 

Coming Events

Wednesday—8 p. m.—-Hart House String Quartette at The
Canadian Institute for the Blind.
8 p. m.—C. O. T. C. parade in the basement of
Arts Bldg.
8 p. m.—Hockey—Dal. vs St. Marys.
Thursday—12 noon—Class '883—Room 4,
8.30 p. m.—King’s College Dance.
8 p. m.—Y. M. C. A. vs Dal. Intermediates.
9 p. m.—Y. M. C. A. vs Dal. Seniors.
Friday—8.15 p. m.—University lecture. Professor G. Vibert
Douglas, subject—“The Voyage of the
Quest."’ This will be followed by lantern
slides of Professor Douglas’ experiences
in the Antarctic.

Saturday—8 p. m.—St. John’s vs Dal Intermediates at Y. M.
C.A

 

8 p. m.—Acadia vs Dalhousie Seniors at Acadia.
8 p. m.—Haliburton Club at Kings.
Sunday—7 p. m.—Students service at Fort Massey Church,
under auspices of S. C. M. Speaker, Dr.
F, W. Patterson of Acadia University.
8 p. m.—Maccabean Society—Robie Street Hall.

Tuesday—8 p. m.—Minstrel show in the gymnasium.

Through the sponsorship of
the National Federation of Canadian students a girls’ debating
team was sent on tour for the
first time to compete against the

Society
this debate was held in the
Dalhousie Gymnasium, February 10 with Mr. D. Macgillivray

 
 

Council Announces Dates For
Nominations and Election

Lecturer Speaks
on Law

   
  
  
  
  
   
 
 

 

The Council of the Students
of Dalhousie University has just
posted the notice of the date
on which the elections wiil be
beld. On Tuesday, March 7,
the college goes to the polls and
votes its representatives into
office. During the coming two
weeks the class presidents must
; call a meeting of their respective
1S being | presented in the Dal-| classes and nominate candidates
housie Gymnasium Friday eve-| for the Students’ Council: all

nings. Dean Corbett is well] names must be in by February
known to Dalhousie audiences 28.

having spoken many times at
the Law School, the last time
as an exchange lecturer between
Dalhousie and McGill. The
subject of Friday evening’s lecture was “The Influence of
Roman Law on the World of
Today.”

  
  
    
    
   
  
  

Dean Corbett of the McGill
Law School was the latest g peaker in the Dalhousie lecture Series.
This splendid series of lectures

During the past few months
the usual chronic dissatisfaction
has been voiced regarding the
Council; the coming weeks give
the opportunity of remedying
any wrongs that may exist in
this body. The class presidents
are advised to hold the meetings
as soon as possible to get all
the candidates possible; and to
inform their classes fully of the
rules and procedure of the elections. In this way everyone
will be able to have a voice in
the Council’s selection.

The Constitution requires that
nominations of representatives,
shall be made by the several
classes and societies to be represented at least one full week
before the date of the election.
This means that the names of
the nominees must be in the
hands of the Secretary-Treasurer
of the Council of the Students
not later than Tuesday, February 28th.

The number of candidates to
be nominated by each class or
society shall be at least one and
one half times the number to
be elected. The number of re
Early communities whilst they
did not bother about such things
as Public Health, had some
sort of a code of Laws, which
were the conditions of its social
existence. Roman Law spread
with Roman conquest and this
was the prevailing code at the
end of the Roman Republic,
around the close of the second
century of the Christian era.
Roman Law survived the downfall ot the Empire because it
was well suited to the needs of
the Plebians who became the
ruling class. The change of
Rome from an agricultural community to the market centre
of the world greatly affected
the Law.

By the end of the classical
period in Roman History, the
Law which now is the basis
of codes in thirty countries of

 

Bae hE Bad bean” ebarted presentatives shall be twelve.
and elaborated. The juristic de- : oe
velopment began in the sixth Ontario Debaters
century under Justinian. The .

Digest, Code and Novelli Con- Entertained

stitio of Justinian is a monument

to Roman Law. On Thursday, Feb. 9th, after

debating in the gymnasium our
visitors from Ontario were entertained at a banquet by the
Delta Gamma Society, at the
Nova Scotian Hotel.

Beth Atherton as chairman of
the evening proposed a toast to
the King, atter which Don Grant
spoke about the N. F. C. U. S.
and the work it is doing.

Mrs. Lane, representing the
judges expressed her thanks at
being asked to judge the debate.

Miss Marjorie Rean, leader of
the Ontario team, told how much
they were enjoying themselves
on their first visit to the Maritimes. Miss Jordan, the other
debater from Ontario. also expressed her delight at being
here and seemed particularly
impressed with the ocean and
the ships. |

Ruth Crandall leader of the
home team, then congratulated
the girls on winning their debate
and said how pleased she and
Lil Fraser were to have been
given the chance to debate
against them.

Roman Law was not directly
inherited by the Western countries, it spread gradually and
superseded the French Law of
Contract. The Code of Napoleon gave uniformity to France
in her Laws. In Germany the
Native Law was crude so in
1495 Roman Law was made the
Law of the Empire.

In England in the 12th and
15th centuries the laws were
systematized by Bracton’s Treatises. If this movement had
continued Roman Law would
prevail in England today but
after Bracton the movement
was discontinued. The sixteenth century saw another attempt
to introduce Roman Law into
England, but this also failed.

The speaker closed by conjecturing on the future. Is either system to survive? Or do
we need a new system altogether
such as advocated by many
advanced thinkers? In any system of Law, there are two
fundamental principles which
must be observed. Ist Safety
of private property. 2nd Freedom of Contract. If social existence demand a reason why
we should be bound to the past
these reasons furnish an adequate answer.

 

DELTA GAMMA TEA.

A Delta Gamma Tea was held
at Shirreff Hall on Friday, February ténth in honor of the
visiting N. F. C, U.S. debaters,
Miss Isobel Jordan, University
of Toronto and Miss Marjorie
Rean, University of Western
Ontario. Among the guests
were Dr. an'd Mrs: McMechan,
Professor and Mrs. Befmett,
Professor and Mrs. Page and
Dr. Dixie Peluet. Mrs. Carlton
Stanley and Mrs. McMechan
poured tea, at the tea table
charmingly decorated with yellow daffodils.

OO i

Mr. J. W. Weldon, K. C.,
graduate of Dalhousie Law
School in 1908, hitherto of the
Commercial Union Building,
Montreal, has formed a law
partnership with Messrs. A.
Chase Casgrain, K. C., §. C.
Demers, K. C., and V. M.
Lynch-Staunton.

 
   

 

    

 

 
   

 

 

    
    
  
  
  
 
    
   
 
 
    

 

  

ek use Seeger |
“ane Aas me ae ane p +40 oa iret el ee os ay ee Ne ea a ‘ a = Ly = : i = — ' e eect Fafa. ’ a: - A) Me tA ¥ Za “4, e
en ite ie — ai ts Pi fe maT Sige 4 A 2: ris Pee <9 A Noe rh a te Ra ee aS hi 7 see * Eas, ‘> =". bea ‘a ~ % bia
woe Se rears PM ee Nee - DALHOUSIE GAZETTE ey aia 4 February 15th, 1938
a i. =! wie (: = - 7 : = ais y ’ fe ; ;
oe ee COMMENT The Waste-Paper Scanning Our cholarships to be
cio | | Basket . ~, ||\AwardedbyN.R.C.
WOE Se ee ee | Contemporaries. Deen ge cae
ee a a . Roosevelt’s Invitation ‘“unconsidered trifles” Ee | Bursaries. of the value of $600
ca - Sing ee = ee es ek Weith Ul thattame Dock will be open to award to appliunded 1869, “The Oldest College Paper in America. ee : MONEY OR CULTURE? eants who have graduated
ws eee ae ee George Moore Curious are the contacts in : é he a eens Pee
_ EDITORIAL STAFF. [ the ever shifting kaleidoscope of} Can, the benefits of a college Y
Fria noo ae humanity. Once in his career|education be price-tagged? Is
DAVID R. ALLAN, ity. ce in Al ie aie” as fs vata} studentships of the value of
ieee at  B. 9602, . the great naturalist, Baron von}!t worth more Irom a monetary $750 will be open to award
Associates, Humboldt came in touch very|or a cultural standpoint? Oto hcants a fe wealveads
ELIZABETH MARCH , gis 2g remotely, it is true—with the] Keeping these questions in d Se ee es a = “a ek
hee cerita i. Roosevelt’s Invitation. City of Halifax, the capital of}mind let us examine the report a rin eee STAUB
Jeb: DUBINSKY, B.A. | Nova Scotia. Privateering was|Of Dean H. W. Lord of the eeeres Tare ee
Pee ae Aa eo te Mr. Roosevelt takes over the : Business Administration Colleg
se. i = v4 ° S the nexus. usiness Administration College Fell hi Pie ientit,. at
_ NEWS STAFF. — Women's News ee Presidency of the United States pees Boston. During his research he|*® pet ips es the value of
wes? ) . RUTH CRAN in March, and Great Britain] «Oy, travellers. anxious to|found that the average untrained ol, ab he open. to award
. B. 9746. had=b incited sand lade FAVEUSTS; av } to applicants who have given
Associates. | as been invited to send dele-|4\,4i] themselves of the first}boy goes to work at 14 and in Ne aie cs aes
Merle Purtill ; gates to the United States soon opportunity for Vera Cruz, hired] seven years reaches a maximum payerate ee ee oe ety
Marg. Montgomerie | after March 4 to discuss war] ,, open vessel. It was laden|income of $1200 per year. The to conduct imdependent reMary F. Simmonds debts and ‘world economic prob-| i+, d carried on al|High School graduate working] S¢@rch in science.
M M i ie é : with cacas, and carried Oo
arion Morton l h he U d St: : ; ;
Dorothy Grayg ems wherein the United States) .ontraband trade with the is-|at eighteen passes the untrained Rivonts fae ceed i
a and Great Britain are mutually}jind_ of Trinidad, for which|man in seven years, and at reat ee a en d a am
Co-ed Reet interested’. This invitation} reason, the proprietor thought|forty reaches his greatest in- rae bay tees rastic reducSe ig | nas been accepted. It is certain}, had- nothing to fear from the| come of $2200. The University} ton the appropriation availB. 9746. h pe thives. that ng ; : able this year for scholarships
me ' that one ol the things that the British; but they had scarcely graduate begins work at twenty- oye ta arsmips,
Associate ; Associate American Government will bring] -eached the narrow channel be-|two, and at twenty-eight is only a limited number of
~ Hugh McGlashen Dorothy Vernon facntd at the: discussions willl. ae . ; awards can be granted. ConRe ee os STARE Orward at the discussions Willltween the islands of Boracha|earning as much as the High] .° aie elie tivicis <
Business Manager — | "Asst. Business Manager be the restoration of the gold|and the Chimanas, when they|School grad. at forty. From ore Beecebaee should
DONALD A. MAHON CHARLES CLARKE, B. A.|standard by England. Inmany| met an armed boat which,| these statistics it might becon-}| Pe strictly consined to candiek ae egy ot B. 1826. B, 3134, — quarters it is believed that aay hailing them at a great distance,|¢lusively judged that a college dates with outstanding records
M. J. Bezanson . concession made on the debt| fred some musket shot at them.| education is of great commercial] Poth in their undergraduate
Dee 3 Proof Editor. question will be looked upon as] [+ belonged to a privateer from| value. But the real importance and postgraduate courses.

part of a bargain, the other side
being represented by the British
return to the gold standard.
The British attitude is that there
will be no restoration of the gold
standard unless and until there
is a settlement of debts.  Britain does not propose to return
to the gold standard until there
is a reasonable moral certainty
that it can stay there. Are these
opposing attitudes such as to
make impossible a final satisfactory settlement? Well, on
the surface it does appear so.
But, admitting that concessions
will be looked upon as part of a
bargain, the Americans are at a
disadvantage. If the conditions
of payment are too onerous, a
general default will likely be
seen in June; and with their
weak bargaining power in relation to the debts, the United
States undoubtedly will realize
that half a loaf is better than
none.

Death of the Lame Duck.

The Twentieth Amendment
to the United States Constitution has at last become law,
and by it a serious defect in the
Constitution has been remedied.
This Amendment has passed
the Senate six times in nine
years, but the Republicans in
the House of Representatives
always managed to block it.
Udner the new rule defeated
legislators will no longer continue to sit until March, under
the retiring President, after the
people have gone to the polls
in November. This Amendment, which will operate from
October next, does away with
this anomalous situation. Both
President and Congress will now
begin their terms in the January following election. It abolishes the so-called lame-duck
session of Congress—that is,
the short winter session, like
the one at present in progress,
and which William Bennett
Munro called the most barren
in U. S. history; ending March
4, during which no serious legislative work could be done, while
a great deal of précious time is
wasted.

ERIC D. MURRAY
George H. Murphy

 

- Editorial office B. 5676

 

 

  
  
  
  
  
    
  
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
   
  
   
   
   
  
  
   
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  
   
 
   
  
    
   
  
 
 
   
 
 
 
  
 
 
  

CRITICISM AND THE COUNCIL ELECTIONS.

4 a ,
i la

"Time rolls its ceaseless course” and the old order changeth
— not. Each year the Council elections are condemned by the
| ———s undergraduate body as popularity contests; they complain that
=e sports are not properly organized at the University and blame
it on that much criticized body, the Students Council; you will be
authoritatively informed by almost any student on the campus
that fraternities control appoiniments to all the executive offices.
| Each year with hopeful regularity the Gazette urges the student
~_ body to make an intelligent use of the franchise at the Students’
yas _ Corneil Elections ; each year with despairing regularity the sug-.-  gestion-is politely ignored by the student body and the critics talk
|» for another year. ‘Their criticism, however, is neither constructive nor destructive. It has taken on a curious tone—a sort of
| ——-—cyapid and illiterate heckling. They write wild and pointless
{ -—s_ articles; they entertain their fellow students by reiterating the
caeeee many deficiences in our executive organization. They make
irrent a sort of “small-talk”’ that is more senseless and vacant
an the chatter of monkeys swinging in the tree tops. It is
et ut time that those who spend so much of their invaluable
energy talking should organize and bring about the much needed
aa 1 cae aaa perhaps their ability is confined to “‘yociferating|
, ety eam’’ and casting aspersions on the work of others—perhaps
that is what they live for and are afraid that their stock of unintelligent conversation might be seriously curtailed if the reforms are
introduced. ‘The Council Elections are at hand. It is time to
discard this ‘‘small-talk’”’ and ACT.

fe

‘.

o

ie
Sa
a 7 *,, 1.
oi P -" x r . ~
ll > ee me

Reso, :
Pe
hn .

Pte |
ie | *
> * a on ee ; +

#

Ss as

‘=>

SODALES AND THE STUDENTS

For the past few years Dalhousians have shown a regrettable
_. tendéncy to confine their participation in all student activities to
_. watching the efforts of a few of their fellows with an air of tolerant
amusement. A small percentage go in for athletics; the rest watch
them and tell the waiting world how things should be done; a few
people devote three weeks to preparing a Glee Club show; the
student body attends the performance and is impressed only by
_the love scenes, which are greeted with loud cheers. The fact of
the matter is that we have become accustomed to having everything handed to us on a platter; unfortunately what is on the
platter is becoming more meagre every year, solely because of the
laziness of the average student. Conditions at Sodales furnish a
glaring example of the present state of affairs. The university
_ debating club offers an opportunity for practice in public speaking,
but only two percent of the student body avail themselves of that
-- opportunity. The average attendance at Sodales is about twenty;
| at-every meeting a faithful few are the only ones who are willing
to give vent to their opinions on subjects of which everyone should
_ know something. One might think that members of the Law
School would be only too glad of the practice they might gain in
public speaking, yet about six law students may be found at each
meeting. Very few people can go through life without at some
_ time finding it necessary to speak in public, and Sodales is the
place to learn how to do it, yet the speech which an average Dalhousian is capable of making would disgrace a high school student.
Preparing a speech requires too much energy; we prefer to find
ready-made amusement at the show. This state of affairs is dis_ graceful, and the student body have only themselves to blame.
__The fault does not lie with the executive of Sodales; they do the
_ best to give the public what it wants, but the public finds that the
___ strain of listening to a debate on any subject, however light, is too
much for their degenerate mentalities. For example, last year
____ several people informed the president of Sodales that éxtempor_ aneous speaking would prove more popular than a regular debate.
_. The president persuaded ten students to volunteer to speak; the
____ debate was well advertised; on the night when it took place only
the ten speakers were present. No other event of any importance
__was scheduled for that night; Dalhousians not otherwise engaged
___ -were discussing the last dance.
eeeeR hk PT tL |
. _ The students of this university pride themselves on their
ie uistication. They profess to look back with scorn on the

«

George Moore.

One of the most distinguished
survivors of the Victorian era
is gone—AE has passed on at
the age of eighty-one. Truly
a great artist, he found- the
present age repugnant because
of its mechanical characteéristic.
As a youth, he was the bad
boy of his family and was noted,
sat least so he has said; for his
idleness, and his love of the
abnormal. He never attended
a university, but studied painting in Paris, where he fell under
the influence of Zola, Daudet,
Hugo and others. In 1902,
Moore returned to Ireland and

$0 ul d days when the Munroe Room was filled to capacity with] remained in Dublin f t
idents wishing to hear Ernie Howse uphold the honor of the]years. These years sat the

ge. Nevertheless, Sodales has been the training school of
e of the finest speakers in Canada. Debating is now regarded
; the students as a rustic and rather childish pastime; but it would
ell if those same students would take time enough from their
1 duties to participate in an activity which would provide
exercise for their brains than most of the things in which

production of some of his finest
writing, the greatest of which
was the triology “Hail and
Farewell!” In 1919 he renounced relations with publishers, and
issued his new books in limited
editions at about $10.00 a vol
a

re now interested. _

i
he ‘~
ps An a
_ _~ rf - < 4 5
a >! oa) at ® " ~— 7a ae “ne
bes) my - Ae ><. _— b ey 1 - al
- er ; x eS ee. fe . Ps :
aah ee he a ag ; w ss mit e . 6 te ce 7 ; + J + PF ow : ™ ae 2 i ‘a. . cs; a a
es ie) a age alk «le a Pee es he ae oo, a ee ae a Page 4h SAG “?
a - al sa sare ‘ CF ‘7 cae, | + ‘, MF ~~ toed ¥ as m ae oat - ee Z ' Son 3 =“ ae e ae
pe > Se ee et ROEM oa. gs ee eh, wed. te oy yt FR em,
a ee: = : a ee a — = — " Pyne - mee ee

  
  
 
   
   
   
  
  

March First is the final date
on which application may be
made.

lies in the mental, moral and
cultural powers therein obtained.

Unfortunately the benefits of
a college course are too often

Halifax, and the travellers were
forthwith carried on board, but
while Humboldt was negotiating

in the cabin, a noise was heard Application Blanks and copies

ing | Misconstrued. The average .
up on deck, and something 7 : ee oe of the Regulations governing
was whispered to the master,}student attends a university these awards may be obtained

é . . - - « - 4 = : .
who instantly left him in con-|because he hopes that after} the Registrar. Mail ap

: Snelish s sraduation he may obtain a os Ge 1 oe oe beat ae
sternation. An English sloop|g y plications direct to ‘*The Sec
larger income than he otherwise
would. But is he truly educated? When we speak of a cultured person, we have in mind
one who appreciates good books,
a person well read on all topics
and this is literally true. Few
students after spending four
years at a reputable university
leave that institution without
having developed the habit of
good reading. Usually these
people are better qualified to
estimate the worth of books thaa
the less fortunate individual.
But that is not all. The extra
curricular activities of a student
are also of. vast importance.
His activities may be of a varied
nature. He has an opportunity to hear good music, he makes
friendships real and lasting, and
if he takes an active part in
debating he acquires self-confidence which is of inestimable
value to him. In short he gains
a larger and broader outlook on
life. But we reiterate by stating—the least benefits of an
university training lies in it’s
monetary value.

of war, the Hawk had come up,
and made signals to the latter
to bring to; which he not having
promptly obeyed, a gun was
fired and a midshipman sent to
demand the reason.”

retary, National
Council, Ottawa.”

Research

 

Our Duty to the
Dead

It is a most distressing thoug ht
to know you are dead and wish
you were alive. Something
ought to be done to soothe the
troubled conscience of those
who know that they ought to
have heard Dr. Munro’s talk
last Thursday morning on the
League of Nations, or welcomed
the young ladies from Ontario
last Thursday evening at the
debate arranged for them by
courtesy of the National Federation of Students. De mortuis
nib nist bonum. Don't kick a
dead horse. Don’t write editorials about apathy and _ indifference amongst college students. They need your sympathy and help. ,

Hell, the modern theologian
tells us, is the abode of everlasting regret and. remorse. We
suffer its incipient pangs every
time we pick up a newspaper
and read about some event or
some person we have failed to
celebrate. The gehenna fires
sear the soul more fiercel y still
when, wearing or bearing a white
lily, the convicted one stands
before the judgment platform
on graduation day and reviews

 

Macgregor’s theory of college
life was that it offered opportunities to play the fool, without
paying the penalties exacted by
real life. For example, it is
possible to commit a crime on
the college campus (such as
arson) and escape the penitentiary.

The students who heard the
Marquis of Zetland’s lecture
had the rare opportunity of
seeing the blue ribbon of the
Order of the Bath, and the
Star,—an unusual decoration for
a lecturer to wear, in these
parts.

ee  - ——

The noble lecturer found it
necessary to discount the wellknown, anonymous Oxford squib
in which ‘Curzon’ rhymes ‘with
‘Purzon’. But the squib will
be remembered long after all
memory of the rest of the lecture
has evaporated. As the President said, ‘Curzon remains an
enigma.”

“IT am not a_ pessimist—especially I am not a pessimist in
regard to Canada and its people.
We have as effective a system
ot government as democracy
permits. Our public men are
as loyal, as high-minded and as
conscientious as those of other

George Saintsbury, professor
emeritus of English Literature
at Edinburgh died the same
day as Galsworthy, aged eighty
 

eight. He was famous for his] countries. Our citizens are]: leo
involved, tormented style, his|steadfast, self-reliant and cour- besa ege career: I have had
indecipherable hand-o’-write,|ageous, and have proved it dur-|'0Ur Years at Dalhousie and

have done?”

Why not have a college assembly once a year in Spring and
award “‘D’s” to those who during the past winter never attended a lecture for which they
did not receive academic credit,
never attended or took part_i
a debate, never showed any
interest in college athletics, never
helped the Dalhousie Gazette,

the freshness of his criticism,
his originality in the class-room.
He left a long list of books trom
his own pen. He was as “well
seen”’ in French as in English.
Perhaps his best work was his
“Short History of French Literature.”’

ing the past three years.’’—
Beatty of che C. P. R.

If the Canadian character
had to be described in one word,
that word would be ‘steadfast.’
That was proved from 1914 to
1918, both in the field and at
home. This is the second test,
and Canada has met it, as she

“T hope you will accept this
year a copy of my report to the

Board of Trustees in plece of | did the first. yoabeishe ain a this ae
. : : ‘ eenety ANlZE simple
a letter. The truth is that I manner, the student-anchorite

must set an example of economy.’’—President Ames to ithe
Alumni of John Hopkins University.

would be prepared to face with
equanimity the day of departure, and would not be overwhelmed by the anguish of
soul of those who are at Dalhousie but not of it.

aa ae rp noe ssn Se AD he oh
BUCKING AUTHORITY.

“The flippancy with which
genius is often treated by mediocrity, is the surest sign of a
prostrate mind’s incontinence

PRO ARCHIA. and impotence.’’—/L andor.

ume. His works are all those
of an artist, but are also products of infinite pain and effort.
He postponed an operation for
two months so that he might
finish a book, and the first thing
he did when he recovered was
to burn the manuscript and
begin over again. His lifelong
search was for a perfect style
for his realistic novels, a style
throughout of ‘‘rhythmic progression.”’ Moore was one of
the great talkers of literature.

Wherever there is authorit
it, fighting it, and criticising it.
disgruntled office seekers who are
and being unequal in ability to those they fight, are forced t
content: themselves with trying to stir up trouble with malici ;
statements and destructive criticisms. Bucking authority ie
old, old pastime, enjoyable and harmless to all but the Spoahic
makers.’ The majority wish to pull with the leaders, helpi :
them, and constructively criticising; those who paddle the aad
way merely retard their own progress. The student bod wr
Dalhousie has great power; by petitioning and voting it can Xf =
many changes; it has the power to change most of the ca ih
L office-holders. That! t doesn’t means either that it is a ise
He was a great man, as a wilter | lacks initiative and men of character for leaders, or th aie
of prose because of his devotion/is content with things as they are. And the majorj Pate
throughout his life to his art.|roast. oe ye

y, there is a small group opposed to
This group is usually made up of
envious of the success of others,

. ‘ ‘ — Pig «7 . ih uee Bee, "7 i 8 he f «le ee a i , a fe
ss ‘- - “ya P - 4 ~_ ae, . nae f ‘ ; La ee 7
Fe a oe ee. e = = . . * a al » ~~ ee in a le a laid es
bese tt Ee oe eu 3e eee adie? Pe a ne eS ee whe

 

/ a j
Bee

 
lien tiddamne  e a
| Ce ee Lae ae Roe ee ee
¥ 
5 wa ee
* ’ i 7. ef 7
Fy € , u Ts neice so
a Faia ry f 7? : he i= a am a
~ * vu ' aC Pe aw ~ 7 =
« = 1 t “= - bs 7? *_ -= a ie A i

  
 
   

 

Or pune *.. | AMPUS Paradox

OM MENT By B. Lebasi.

 

 

     
  
   
   
   
 
 
   
   
  
 
  

 
  

   
 

   

—

{admit sir, that there is the possibility | pa a

| | | of a flaw in your iscucstical! scheme : Chapter 11.— (Continued).
PAB ONS. 9 a Sat Sn 2 TE sate do sir, could we not’ arrange |

. the last issue of ‘the Gazette an|a short debate, let us say at the next

eee which was very|}Glee Club? With such a farcial
ical of the Glee Club. Your diag-| subject, it would be sure to afford

nosis of the situation Mr. Editor is all}amusement to all. I admit sir, it

_ wrong; your so called constructive|would be difficult for me, as your

_ fiticism was worse than  useless.} mental inferior. Sacrificing myself for
_ There is only one thing the matter|a noble cause, as it were.

_ with Glee Club. It is the same| Pardon me for asking, but are you
e trouble that is experienced by nearly | putting yourself through college or
every other organization in the College |supporting yourself on scholarships

—"the characteristic apathy of Dal-|and cash prizes? It’s a shame you

can't take all the classes we have, so

that the intellectually inferior females
would not lead the majority of them
year after year. Oh! but we males
are proud of you sir, you are a Moses
unto us. “‘And a little child shall

_ THE EDITOR IS WRONG

  
  

~v
| we i

    
   

  

8. And the council of studes Sane Man!—Truly a mixture of the
came together with the men of : sublime and the ridiculous; of
the senatus and there was a| Don’t you think it’s about] virtue and vice; of strength and
conclave. And the order came| time some of you students, who| weakness; of high courage and
out behold there shall be no|object to Observer putting in| grovelling fear; of the spiritual
more smoking in the halls of|jokes about his own clique as|and the animal; of the intellecDal and he that will go against} you put it, sent in some contri-/tual and the emotional; of huthis rule shall be punished. butions? I will be very glad|mility and conceit; of hope and

9. And when the men of med}to receive them and mighi|despair! He is at once gregarcame together, yea they of the|even be able to publish some of| ious and a recluse; tender-heartfirst year, behold there arose} your witty cracks. ed and cruel; self-sacrificing and
the chieftain Beeheyen and said errs selfish; lovable and hateful: reaunto them. sonabel and obstinate; creative

10. Yea verily, he did speak} Many clubs have been formed) and destructive; admirable and
unto the Sprohek of the Makk-!at Dalhousie during the past|abominable! His history is part
donald clan, unto Marrhek the few years among which are the|tragedy and part comedy: part
Tall of the Browwen family,) Moustache Club and the Bowler| inspiring and part degrading;
unto Ruzzyell of Seednee, unto| Hat Club, but the latest is the} part delightful and part dis- Experience in buyin
Stodd-Yard who fought with} Amalgamated Society of Pants | gusting! His life is made up of ys
the men of Rugby, unto the Pressers. Orders will be receiv-|laughter and’ tears; joy and| Choice Virginia, Turkish
Beeber of the first class andjed at the university store or| sorrow; friendship and enmity;

Parsons the Red who arose above| 5056. They guarantee their|success and failure! The most} and Burley tobaccos, plus
his tellows in the contests at work and promise a good shine spelndid of the creatures al eee
Kreesmiss and to Pop of Rhiyen with it. Their MOtto 18 “Althe most contemptible, he is} the knowledge of years
and also to Et-yill who learns}crease in the pants 1s worth |capable of rising to the most

but Histol and to many others} two in a family. lofty hights and of falling to the] 10 blending these choice
saying, lo, ye beginners in med, on lowest depths!

there shall henceforth be no : How the gods must regard gtades of leaf — produces
more smoking Ken _Sullivan—Well, I cer-| him with wonder and horror!

11. For, lo, should the land] tainly like your girl friend. this highest grade of
of the Forrest be destroyed by| George Thompson—Yes, she
the greedy flames then alas|is only a Math professor’s| | ;
for your first breath of med, for daughter, but what an example 4 Prof. Walker says in England
verily it shall not be given she sets. in 1918 all women over 80 had

   

  
      
          
 

    
   
   
    

 
 

eae a
pees

        

_ _housie students’ (to borrow a phrase
‘which you used in a previous editorial
ahd forgot when writing about the
- Glee Club). Why cast slurs on the
_ work of the President of Glee Club
~~ when you know, as well as I do, that
he is doing his best- If you can’ |lead them.’’ Could this have a tema honestly praise the results ci! bis eri st] poral meaning as well as its spiritual?
~ you could at least offer a word or two] I agree with, you: implicitly, you
_of encouragement. Thirk it over. |have shown me the error of my ways.
aay it ye think I shall follow the example of
HOPLEY PORTER.

               
    
   

 
       
       
   

   
 

    
   
       
           
      

your leaders, Bert rand Russel, H. G.
Wells, Dr. John B. Watson, Dr. Marie
Stopes, Dr. Schmanlhauser, Bernard
_ |Shaw, Dr. Alfred Adler, et c., and be
an exponent of birth control and
abortion, a childless man, and tell
people how to bring up their children

mething like a hen teaching a duck
to swim. =

Certainly sir, the world does not
follow the teachings and examples of
‘a few, even in religion. Of course
we have to admit that the Catholic,
and Protestant Churches have a few
followers, but then as you say they
are. the ignotant, who cannot form
their own conceptions.

How are you going to undertake
the education of these mothers to be,
sir? I would suggest that yous hold

-.

      
 

A SECOND SUPPORTER |
The Editor, 7

__. Dalhousie Gazette.

  
  

E

Theat

 
   
 

os

  
 
 

ee

ey Dear Sir:— Pes

_____ The severe criticism directed at the
Dalhousie Glee Club during the past
_ © few weeks, bears room for much
thought. I would like to make a few
points clear, which perhaps the aver_- age student does not know at present.
| Having been in several shows this
_-. year, I can truthfully say the co‘Operation between the Club and stua: dents is disgraceful. They do not
come to rehearsals. Those few that

  

F oe

    
 

it
'

  
 

        
    

 

 
 
    

  

¥

          
       
       
    
 

—————<S<S—S<$<$_$§$—— a —___

 

se
~

blended cigarettes...

    
        
   

    
    
  
    
     
   
   
  
  
   
     
     
   
   
   
   
 
   
 
 
   
    
    
  
   
   
    
   
   
   
    
 
   
  
    
    
   
  
 
  
  
 
  
   
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
    
 

tee: a meeting, takin 1 . ;

| GaP BSA Pan aes ce fey | hoe Gir of FightySoutd Know: [eredit and ye will have lost the SEAT me ne ee
__ supporters have neglected their studies.|!™ Sure they would appreciate the; time. Behold there will be no vole,

The result is evident, the next time pea! = Peete cece ee more anatomee or prak anatomee| We have two apologies for Wi nches fer
| fiiey are approached for their talent] ¢crived from your studies and-exper-| nor will there be any more cut-|this weck. The Gazette is] § ————»—__—

s ae Must studies be neglected because birth may be relieved. Truly sir, ting of the keednees, yea the) Sorry tor calling Harvey Cole | P CIGA RETTES
Bs. biher students. have raid 2 few you are a modern Plato. ordinary or the horseshoe. And es ee reddy, a a Don Stewart at Basketball

Pa dollars council fee te xt ee. you sir for calling me an youths in med said unto the Sel Ver apologizes to the ‘Don game with Wanderers: I must e
ry eo Me ete Cen ee ne hee pence. wee ea chieftain, behold sire we desire Juan” of the Anatomy table for manage a good game tonight. Blended Right!

tellectuals, Gandhi and G. K. Chester-| not to lose our first year in med] spelling his aame wrongly. It| My girl’s in the gallery.
ton. If I might be allowed to suggest | and therefore we shall not smoke| Should be spelt Emet Donoho |
Ithink Fresemble the former, as I have,| but in the recesses of the forest} because Observer got — this Re ee ee

~~ Club” show knows that Doug Murray

_~ 4s a willing and hard worker. After Imperial Tobacco Company

of Canada, Limite

alla President can’t put on a show.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

MacLeod, Balcom,

F- 5-_I have just seen “The Island|the domzin ot the femals Shan-|4 doubt the best. interfaculty

    
  
  

x . — ee a yd : succeeded in etti 4 eae y? : , z as ° “ica J? j .T . 6. ay
“i eee, etal whe NOGA tanto. thank won one becn [and Beeheyen said, it is well] straight from ““Sproc MacDon-| The boys are complaining a~~ everything that is done, there would be|imsight, and explanations you have|and there was a returning to the ald and he should know. bout people driving in the hall
more and_ better shows. given me as regards, dietetics, child | Histol. ta with their headlights on. Try
oS 6 What the Glee Club needs is co- eo eee ae prey a 12. And the profess of Stud and put yourself in the same
ie we pe Ee : will be as perfect as the], ; otis s Ae
oe oe ce aot. t Versus de Milo. P they too took the studes to task| The Interfaculty Sport Won-| Position, you borrowed car driv- -——
Rare | af: Humbly yours, _ for that they did throw the| ders— ers,
Be Sade ae ore butts everywhere, yea even in| Gordon Archibald is without Le

   

 

ers es. * ti +4 i
eT gs tie t i. ater rael eae tealy ae is yen, the domain of the Libe.| goal tender. West Bedwin, manager of the Limited
OR ee nk rng ERT oil So le ke jis a masterpiece of immorality, and} Behold in _the next cahpter it} The Freshman Basketball} Enginee'r’s hockey team is lookee Eee oe Bi es eee sere Se Son, with scientific knowledge, | will be written of this domain | team is a smooth working outfit.|ing forward to a great season
et Phe Aspizt ¢ President. Rone eee Sid. i faa Bia san ats and its keepers. _ |Bernie Goodman is probably|mext year. We lost this year, DRU
Bera pseare ciety ss soubltive —peweri’ works = Nath suck: 1B. And down in the dis-|/the star, I mean star gazer on|he says, but with the experience GGIST
ge oe oa _ . | masterpieces as Mother Goose, Alice|tricts of Biol where the learned|the outfit. Allan Duffus cer-|received they should go a long |
fet nr ps on my intrusions upon yourlin Wonderland, etc. You do well to]son of Haze holds his discourses tainly makes use of his weight|wWay in the following terms.

- reverie. As your letter implies, you

 

poe eee ms aoe gale daily unto them of premed,|pbuyt can’t keep the ball on the| Never mind West, all the Enwieah, 4 follower of Scott. wito dressed behold there was heard speak-| court. Nobody can play a-|gineers needed to win the chamcommunism in the latest, and most}ing Ronald, saying, Verily unto] cainst them, no one can play|Ppionship was a manager.

% g y p 7 >
stylish garments and called it tech-|us of the profess there can with them and no one wants to.
nocracy— come no punishment for are} The law teams talk a fairly

we not profess? But not sol good game.

ee re ee ne oe NOVA SCOTIA TECHNICAL COLLEGE

Students’ Service.—S .,| but studes and you must not - ekg h x OF
aera poe anesy egoke wheter Your hearts det, ee eee a speaking of ENGINEERING COURSES
pa Walaa day of prayer for| Site for we shall look carefully Sk aa ina ae a dak A ele IN
unto your actions and there|?" example “like a mere crowd, CIVIL ELECTRICAL, MECHANICAL AND MINING

are possessed of a keen intellect. Why
_ ~~ gir! there is no need to imply such a
meaning, it is selt-evident, how could
i: one Paris your superior intelligence,
devise and originate, such a society
a as you have founded. -Even the
ae Lotus Eaters are your intellectual
-_- _.-inferiors, or at the very least you are
—-. ..) their equal. .

aft No! [ will admit I did not take to
myself a rebuttal. Why? Do you

HALIFAX and BEDFORD

  

 

 

 

= students. Dr. F. W. Patterson as Pine Hill id " i ineerii¢ Di

ap : ; A pit . ‘ { ; as ine i residence. To Dalhousie Students with Engineering Diploma

. President of Acadia University, ee abe tne toes He also says that no one Modern Equipment, Instructing Staff with Industrial Experience
y- eae ene ee iA aed 3 he aie se knows how much human pro- Tuition Fee $75.00 per year. Twenty-five scholarship§of $75.00 each,
A students service O e e ;

 
 

Write or call for Calendar or advice.

gress is hindered by love affairs.
F. H. SEXTON, Pres.

     

under the auspices of the S.C.M. law the same thing took place.
at Fort Massey Church on Sun- There it was the wise Seed-Nie
day at 7 p. m- The theme of who reigns in law since the
the service will be ‘Praying for departure of John of Reehed
the New Day.” All students and behold the learned son of
are urged to attend, as the|>meet said unto the populace a
theme is one that should be of |among whom were he of Ter
great interest in view of the Rurow, yea the Makkuluk; and Rome --- Moscow
agitation for social reform that|Reechard of Newfo; and the Berlin
is getting so much prominence |green Berg that is known to 2

today. ; the people as Myhek; and Davee
ets who knoweth his roses well and ‘
ae: Howard whose words flow easily All-wave Radio

as the water in downward stream
Brings Them Rolling

yea also Lawrence of Sask and
In

Potter the disciple of Wombow

and also they of the grads,
Not guess work—not an exaggerated statement—
but a demonstrated fact as proven daily to

   

Moneys Worth!

The very latest in cooking
devices are used here, giving you
higher food values in every dish.

- THE
Green Lantern

409 Barrington St.

 

  

     
    
       
      

verily Jonnayye-Wie, aad Mahuks
of Prahutt, and the boy Kiare
and Aharen who is a brother
unto Hudson of international
fame and to many others saying:
the law is such my people and

yi

not always buy their PINS in
Canada but CHAPTER GUARDS
Jare not so specified. A recent
|iquotation by Birks disclosed a

 

. saving of 25%. V3 x ; . ; .
3 | } Te tO oe ate . owners of these famous instruments. Phinney’s
May we quote on your there comes unto us good 0 - 5 : : .
"yequirements. _ Ekkwitee and says that ye may invite you to inspect these remarkable. irstrubs ‘ Age smoke in the lower recesses of ments—and remember—the cost is little more |
Ser | the Forrest and I beseech ye, th di Radi : ig
- ra 6g | go there so that our Libe may|| ( & an ordinary Radio Receivers. “tag
a nervy Rirk: : HALIFAX, N.S. not be lost and the land of Law :
eS Henry B irks & Sons || 7 ; continue to exist and it was so. A generous allowance made for your present

  
 

 

15. Lo, on a certain day a 7
catastrophe arose in the land Model 36
of Dent and half of the second
year was laid low with the floo
and alas the other half of the

class sils alone with his thoughts $ 19 3.50

, He bur cone a eS) eee! UPPER AND LOWER the the lonesomeness is intense.
a Halifax Ladies College ane _ SCHOOL 16. And the tribe of ‘“SneetSs st Gancarwataryu af Marcie Household Science: Teacher’s || chers’’ has come upon the people
ee ee TVA . 716 r fetifian’a if} ° ee *
err | Conservatory of Music ‘ _— aap rgeton and there is wailing in the
- #] Music in all Branches. Teacher’s Certificate. Graduation Diploma. d hi
- ay ¥ -. by “at Licentiate or Bachelor of Music, Dalhousie Univer sity, Poe ae. ns Pam uo
"Director of Conservatory |g |Of the Sneetchers for their vic
MISS E. FLORENCE BLACKWOOD, B.A., MR. HARRY DEAN
rs gk “= al <? “ Principal 4 ; ’ e » .
ee tories shall be short-lived.

| DIAMOND MERCHANTS Radio. 3

Halifax, N. S.

 

 

 
   
     
 
 
   
    

 

oe

a

Sl 2 =<

     

 

 
   

      
  
  

aS

t

  
  

  

one Dib
- Se
ue ee >
7 a
Pa P, 4 “ .U - .
; ¥ Yo
Le ies
ta + = =
“—" . _ . i
; S74 a ‘ 5
ed f i, ey
“ 3 ‘ }
bs + fel ae pe J
a fy ale \
i J 2 om My
‘oa
’ fi - ,

c i
i i
: ,
“Sar

a
=

# |

ETS

   

_ Hockey

eee Dal vs St. Mary’s for the City
ey oss Intercollegiate Hockey Title!
: - What memories this revives of
the old days when the Dal
Hocket team was famous and
Febie Bates, D. McIsaac, Omer
Taylor and Parker Hickey were
names on everyone’s tongue.
After a lapse of years the undergraduate team is again playing
St. Mary’s for the right to represent Halifax in the Maritime
Intercollegiate League. Will the
shades of the past moan bitterly
as they watch a fighting Tiger
Team, unsupported by the students beat their old rivals, St.
Marys.

 

By defeating Tech at the
Forum last Friday aight, Dalhousie won a play-off berth in
the Intercollegiate League with
St. Mary’s. The play off game
with the red and white Saints
is slated for tonight and judging
by the oppositioa that the Tigers
gave Chris Grant’s gang on the
last occasion everything points
to a red hot battle. Dalhousie

| lost that game only through
penalties, but the Tiger suppor
: ters may rest assured that Oyler

is giving his charges strict in
¥ pm structions to watch all checking |

3 -~ and high sticks. Laurie TeasEte dale, manager of the Tigers,
ms who is disgusted with the supAP ay) port given to the squad hopes

“ae - that the students will turn out
tonight arid give the boys the
support that they deserve. Teasdale claims that he has as ha.d
“i a working team as has ever
__« repregented Dal and he is looking forward to a Tiger win.

*
.

 

Oyler will probably send in
the same squad that defeated
_ ~ Tech. Purtill will be between
f the posts with Bent, Brennan,
and Connors doing duty behind
the blue line, The forward lines
as will in all probability remain unes changed with Cooke, Bryant,
Ellis, Stanfield, Cole and Smith

‘Take oer:

ec. - up in front.

Ae .

a Ken Purtill—4th yea on
=: team, Finest intercollegiate
aie - goalie in Maritimes. Playing
ee _ better than ever this season.

| BASKETBALL
THURSDAY, FEB. 16th
AT DAL GYM

8.00 p.m. Dal vs. Y. Inter.

9.00 p.m. Dal vs. Y. Seniors

ADMISSION, 25c.

  
   
     
 
   
    
  
    
  

JOHN TOBIN & Co,

es’ LIMITED

Wholesale Grocers

Tea Merchants

  

flee ” Miss. V. Alvarez, Miss Rhoda Ho iss Lilli ,
| 70 Sun Life Bldg. 224 Bloor St. West mene eno
MONTREAL TORONTO WINNIPE®

 

_ | Annual Summer Tours to Europe
AND

Cruise to the Orient

for detailed circular apply to

oo _

§ ST. MARY’S FOR INTERCOLLEGIATE CHAMPIONSHIP TONIGHT

: Team Set To Win |Dal Tigers Lose to
Championship At Forum

Doug Bent—2nd year on
team. Captain of this year’s
squad. One of the fastest skaters on the team and very effective on the defense—likes to
check and hits opposing players
hard.

Max Brennan—3rd year—
lined up with Bent—forms a
strong defence. Skates fast and
has a hard shot.

Hal Connors—3rd year oa
Dal team. Learned to play
hockey in Montreal. Playing
better hockey than ever this
year. |

Bob Cook—lst year. Centre
of first line of forwards. Product of Sydney Comm. League—
very iricky and a fine play
maker for his wings

‘“‘Biscay’’ Ellis—ls+ year—
From Bathurst. Plays with
Cook and Bryant right wing.
Has terriffic shot and skates
fast—which explains his scoring
ability.

Russeil Bryant—lst year.
Left wing. Playing better every

game, shows great improvement| fy hie
,

since the first of season, one of
the Kardest working players on
the team and very effective.

Bob Stanfield—-centre of second line—lst year on team
Played at Ashbury before coming to Dal. A fine poke-checker.

Art Smith—1st year on team.
Plays on left wing with Stanfield and Cole. Has ability to
mark his man well and opposing
forwards on his lane don’t score
easily.

George Ccle—lst year. From
Sydney. Has hard shot and is
always trying.

Potter Lyler— Coach.

When the decision was made
to enter an undergraduate hockey team in the City League the
“howlers’”’ around college clzimed it was a waste of time and
money. The answer to that
“howl” is Dal playing St. Marys
for the Title, Wednesday night.

 

PROOFS.
Will all those who have

not returned their ‘‘proofs’’
to the photographers do so
as soon as possible. Your
co-operation will be greatly
appreciated by the Year Book
Staff.

HALIFAX TAXI CO.
6.7376

At your

Service

GARRICK

To-Day—THURSDAY

“CHANDU

The Magician”
—with—

EDMOND LOWE

Friday and Saturday

ANN RICHARD
HARDING DIX

“The Conquerors”

See
re

    
    
              

    
 

    

  
  

| were overshadowed by the sharp

 

 
 
 
 
  
 

defence and
goalie.
the Engineers, and West Bedwin, think they can repeat.
Time and the playoffs will tell.

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Wanderers News Briers

Fighting fiercely every minute CLASS ’33.

of the way, the Dalhousie basketball team lost to their ancient
rivals the Wanderers 44 to 35
last Saturday night at the Y.
M. C. A. The game, packed
with thrills from beginning to
end, was a heart-breaking one
for the Tigers to lose. Ten
times the Tigers came from behind to either tie the score or to
forge from one to three points
ahead. Each time, however,
their lead was short lived as the
driving, fighting Wanderers came
back to do the same. With
seven minutes to go and Dal
leading 29 to 26, the Wanderers
put on a four minute spurt that
gave them a nine point lead at
42 to 33 and from then on the
play was routine and lacking in
excitement.

There will be a meeting of
Class ’33 in Room 4 on Thursday at 12 o’clock. The life
officers of the class will be
elected.

Speaks over C. H. N. S,—.
Professor A. K. Griffin, instructor in classics at Dalhousie and
Kings, spoke over radio station
C. H. N.S. on Friday last. His
address, ‘‘America’s Educational
Debt to Britain,’’ was one of a
series of talks on the feature
subject, “This changing world.”

Former Dean Speaks—John
E. Reid, Ottawa, legal advisor
to the Department of State for

The game opened with Mus- ree oe divi s the

; : ode s . aw students in the famous
grave umping center getting ais

oN 8 =!Moot Court room on Friday.

the tip from Fahie and giving
the ball to Bauld who scored
6 points before the Wanderers
woke up and changed their
defense. The Wanderers with
Piers and Woodworth
dropping in long shots from
center soon tied it up and from
then on it was nip and tuck the
whole first half. Bauld was the
only one who seemed to be on
fer Dal, scoring 11 ot their 17
points the first half. Woodworth for the Wanderers was
right behind however, dropping
in five long shots for 10 of his
team’s 18 points.

The second half was _ close
and exciting for 15 minutes
with Fairste in and Crease playing welt for Dal but their efforts

His subject being ‘Intra Empire
Agreements.’’ Mr. Reid, who
is a former Dean of the law
school, traced the development
of Empire relations for the last
sixty years up to the Economic
Conference.

Declaring that the Empire was
a unitary state in theory and
fact, he also interpreted some
clauses in the British North
America Act and told of the
difficulty in revising them The
applause at the end of. the address exemplified the enthusiasm
of the students at once more
being able to hear their old Dean,
a man, who since leaving them
has brought honor to their institution by his achievements.
shooting of Bev Piers the Wanderer’s star. This boy playing
as though he was in his own
backyerd just couldn’t miss the
basket and dropped in no less
than 8 goals, everyone from
outside the foul line during that
second half. With Grant scoring a couple of times close in
ths was enough to guarantee
the Wanderers the game three
minutes before it ended.

Pine Hiilers Addressed on
Farming. ‘You should assist
the farmers of Nova Scotia with
their problems, give to them
inspiration and sound counsel
from your pulpit, and by your
good examples and_ influence
mould together a better life in
the rural communities.’’ This
was a portion of Dr. J. M.
Trueman’s address to the students of Pine Hill Divinity Hall
on Friday last, in the third of a
series of lectures, on the problems confronting the Farmers and
how they might by good instruction be alleviated.

 

ok: Drier S

The Dawson Geology Clib
was entertained by Prof. Copp
on Saturday, Feb. llth. Prof.
Copp gave the club a very interesting lecture on the building
of the Quebec Bridge. Along
with this lecture he showed some
slides which helped to make the
story more realistic to those who
had never seen the bridge.

After refreshments and. singing the group adjourned, having
spent a very pleasant evening.

The result of Saturday’s game,
Wanderers defeating the — Y,
makes the game Saturday night
between the Tigers and the
Reds the most important of the
year. A victory for the Reds
will give them undisputed possession of first place while a
Tiger victory will tie the league
up again.

Thursday night’s game. between the Engineers and Freshmen promises to be the most
interesting hockey match in the
interclass league. Bedwin, Engineer’s manager assures me that
his team has been training hard
and have all their plays blueprinted. Champions last year
the Engineers are out to retain
their title; the other teams take
warning, the Engineers are on
the war path.

 

 

Newman Club—The monthly
meeting was held Sunday, Feb.
12, at the Knights of Columbus
Hall. Plans for an _ informal
party were made.

 

Sociology Club—On Wednesday, Feb. 8, a meeting was
held in the Arts Bldg. Mr.
Gardor Thorsteinsson; of Reykjavik, Iceland, spoke informally
to the members of the Club on
his own country.

In the Interclass Hockey league the games played to date
have produced fine hockey. Under the direction of Doug. Beat
of the Varsity Team, the league
has been handled the best in
years; The 2-2 draw that Law
and Commerce played gave ihe
Meds first place in their section
and. the righi to play the winner
of the second section.

In the second section Engineers, the last year’s Champs,

and favorites to repeat, were! CITY INTERCOLLEGI
defeated by the Freshmen 2-1. HOCKEY CHAMPIONSHIP

The game was tied until an
easy shot by Saundersoh struck
the stick of one of the Engineer's
rolled past the
Despite this setback

Mathematical Seminar—
At the last meeting, Feb. 10,
Mr. Longard presented the paper, which was discussed by the
students attending the meeting.

Dal vs St. Mary’s
FORUM WEDNESDAY
Dal students admitted on

presentation of D. A. A. C.
Tickets.

The Haliburton Club of
Kings provided a splendid programme Saturday evening Feb.
llth. The papers given embraced a variety of topics —
ship-building, banking, tales of
Cape Breton, ballads of Nova
Scotia, and Education in the
School for the Blind. These
subjects were capably dealt with
by Messrs. W. MacIntyre, H.
Wainwright, S. Cumming, E.
Cochrane and D. Haviland. The
usual refreshments and toasts
followed, so the entire program
was well-balanced and well received.

The Annual Banquet of the
Dalhousie Law Society was held
in the Grille Room of the Nova
Scotian Hotel on Saturday night.
Despite the storm and the condition of the streets about fifty
“old faithfuls’”’ turned up _ to
lend an air ot prestige to the
occasion. President Coll Stewart presided at the festive board
and he opened the proceedings
with a toast to the King. Professors Horace Read, Vincent
MacDonald and Dean Sydney
Smith were guests of the Society.
Dr. Benge Atlee was the guest
speaker of the evening.
D. A. A. C. ELECTION
DRAWS NEAR.

On Tuesday, March 7, the
officers of the Dalhousie Amateur Athletic Association will be
elected by the students. ‘This
is the same day on which the
college votes on the Student’s
Council candidates, and it is
thought that by having two such
important elections coming on
the same day. greater. interest
will be taken and more votes
will be cast. It is imperative
that the students vote in a body,
and for someone really worthy
of the positions. The elections
have been farcial long enough.

go aah OS oa

The Freshmen certainly upset
the Interclass league dope when
they defeated Engineers, 1932
Champs, 2-1. The class of Hockey produced in this league to
date has surprised the fans with
its excellence.

“The Animal

Kingdom”
—with—

LESLIE HOWARD
ANN HARDING

Sat. Mon.

“The F baie

Lieutenant”
All-Star British Cast

MEN
ONLY

realize how easy it is to
leave the wrong impression.
Particular men do not lay
themselves open to harsh
Criticism by wearing soiled
laundry. Dare you run the
risk of offending when for
a few cents you can appear
immaculate by sending
your work to the

Halifax Steam

e.

 

Laundry

L-2300
May We Serve You?

 

February 15th,

SENIOR CLASS PARTY.

Seemingly all of Class ’383
turned out in full force to make
merry at one of the good old
class parties, on Friday, February 10, at the Lord Nelson
Hotel. In spite of the fact that
orders were, that no one outside
of Class 33 should be allowed to
attend, we noticed a f ew freshettes. Yale Brodie and his orchestra supplied the most pleasing dance music. Suppe: was
served in the Grill Room and
it was undoubtedly one of the
best suppers that we have ever
eaten at a Class Party. Dr:
and Mrs. Bell were the chaperones for the evening.

The Seniors, realizing perhaps
thai their days of class parties

are now almost over, united
their efforts to make this party
the success that it was.

CASINO

Thursday to Saturday
February 16 17 18

‘The Half Naked
Truth’

—with
LEE TRACY
LUPEZ VALEZ
Monday to Wednesday
February 20 21 22

“Afraid To Talk”’

—with—

ERIC LINDEN
SYDNEY FOX

  

 

 

T. J. WALLACE

SIGHT SPECIALIST
Y.M.C.A. Bldg.

‘If You Want To See Well
See Wallace.’’

   
   

 

NICKERSON & CREASE

Limited
Wholesale Fruit and Produce
574-578 Barrington St.
HALIFAX, N. S.

FROM THE

WINNERS FRoMT

For 60 years the REACH Trade
Mark on Sporting Goods has been
a mark of perfection. No matter

what your favorite sport may be
we can supply you with equipment
that will help you play the game
with the best that’s in you.

CRAGG BROS CO.,

Limited
Hardware and Sporting Goods
HALIFAX, N. S.

 

es eee
te

    

es

Pull of Real

eam interest ma

From page to page, from col
umn to column, The Halifax

Herald’and the Halifax Mailis

full of interest for allthe fam
ily. Read thesepapers every
ay.

The Halifax Herald

and

The Halifax Mail

   

 
