 

   

   
  
  

Go eee For Model ‘League

 

ie ep esontanives of Mount hag U.N. B. s Acadia, King's asict Dale

   
 
  
    
  
 
   
 

i. ~ & 7
| an rey
, ms

, who s
ave a thoroug

    

~ housie were present and a keen seriousness and knowledge seldom
_ Seen in any convention was shown by every delegate.
session F riday afternoon was featured by the report of the three
main committees and the debate thereon.

The opening

ities eyening the conference was honoured by having as
fits quest the Honourable Maurice Dupre, Solicitor General for
ke on “Disarmament. and Its Obstacles.
resume of the situation in the world today, and
the various disarmament proposals.

1

He

This speech was

a ie ithout doubt the highlight of the conference, and never once did

  
   
 
 
    
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
  
    
 
 
 
 
    
   
   
   
    
 
   
  
  
  
   
    
  
  
   
  
    
  
  
 
   
   
 
  
  
 
  
  
 

_ Assembly.

_ Saturday morning was devotSed to a discussion of the Irish
_ Free State question and disarma“ment asa whole. In the after#eg Moon three economic proposals

. were made to stabilize prices,
& found a world bank, and to
# stabilize currency. Needless 10
iY, Say discussion was not lacking,
’ iF and more than once, the Presi
_ dent had to close debates.

Nor was the trip _ entirely
without its incidents. To menion a few we can distinctly re} member F lint Baa bentle at
3 y to bw Re ttle o
na gerne eam’? + - . - Simmonds anc De on Piechival d play-|

ig facie down the isles of the’
train; Ted Payzant zealously

1 eos a celluloid doll; the
jot ol

Dal yell on the plat_ form. Nor did the Ladies Col
lege escape the invasion of the
male element—two prominent
~ members of which sported “‘Senjor canes.” » Tut! We remember
the kind hospitality. of our
friends at Mount A.

Dr. MackKay’s last. minute
run to catch the train; the gory
stories of the evening spent in
- Amherst; the trip home. All in

- the time when Dalhousie will be
m §6the host to the Model League of
ie Nations.

Hon. Maurice Dupre

ee, MP. LL. tf, Pe,

 

~ interest Jag as Mr. Dupre presented the problem clearly before the

SAAN NEE

We send.

selves?

Students, as

l ¢
if
9%
38
2 |

happiness to their poorer fellow creatures.

What hi gher goal could a person have?

Official Student Pablication at Dathcasie University

 

HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA, DECEMBER Ist, 1932.

Student Fares

All students going home for
the holidays, and wishing to
take advantage of the reduced
train rates should consult the
bulletin board in the Memorial
Library as soon as_ possible.
The Christmas rates for all
students and teachers are reduced on all train lines in Canada. Anybody desiring to take
advantage of the reduced fare
should consult the bulletin board
for the rules and regulations
and then purchase your ticket
from the proper authorities.

Meet Tonight

On Thursday, Dec. Ist.
8.15 p. m.
Club will
Hall. An
is planned.
Conducted Conversation—Prof.

Gautheron.

Le Semeur — par V. Hugo—

Helen Belyea.

Parce Mea — par V. Hugo—

Helen Remiard.

Don Juan—par Moliere—Jacques Berenger, Milton Mus
at
a meeting of the
be held at Sherriff

interesting program

grave, Bob MacIntosh, Dan
Harvey.
Le Madelon..................... Chorus

Chat Christmas Spirit

a body, are notoriously poor;

Once again the Yuletide season has come around and with, ut thoughts of mysterious parcels, whispered
conferences, holly—in fact all that goes to make up ‘* Xmas.”
forgotten all year: to the exchange of friendly gifts: tothe frantic last minuté cards which courtesy demands
We think of the everlasting{question—* What on earth will I giver”

But do we all stop and think of the true spirit of Christmas?
Or do we tend to think only of our immediate friends and forget those who are less fortunate than ourAre we not prone to forget the real Christmas and the meaning of it?

Man”, and ‘The Fatherhood of God.’ Let us dwell on these two phrases; and if We can acquire even a
small part of thetr worth and live it, this world would be a wonderful place to live in.
~ Tetus pit away selfish thoughts and strive to guide our lives with a true Christmas spirit.
but not so poor that they cannot sacrifice a little to bring
“Many micktes make a muckle”’ is only too true, and if each
member of our student body were to give one half of one week's allowance to such a fund as the Comm unity
Chest, a great deal could be done to alleviate, for a time at least, much actual physical suffering in Halifax.
We know that Dalhousie students will not fail!

Our thoughts once more Wander to friends

Do we fully realize its significance
“The Brotherhood of

At this time of year

 

 
 
  

 

No. 9

) aritime ‘College Delegates | Railway Reduce | French Club To Dal Eleven Enters Finals; Win

From Nova Scotian Team

 

Dal's ‘‘infant organization,

’’ the Soccer Team, has been gradu
ally battling its way to success, and now has an excellent chance

of winning the championship of
bringing home the Dennis Cup.

So far the team has met with only one defeat,

the Halifax City League and of

when in their

first game against the St. George’s Aces, they were nosed out of
victory in the dying moments of the game by a single goal, the final

score being 3-2. The next two ga
The first was played in a literal
impossible.

The result was a scoreless draw.

mes were against the R.C.N.V.R.
hurricane and good football was
In the second, how
ever, conditions were more favourable and Dal won its first victory

by a 1-0 score.

As the season was quickly drawing to a close the League decided
that on the following Saturday Dal should play the Nova Scotian

Hotel and that each period should be considered a game.

Dal

chalked up four points by winning both periods and by defeating
their opponents to the tune of 5-1.

|

 

 

 

Political Debate
Held by Sodales

The Liberal supporters of Mr.

all, it was a~ most successful Mackenzie King far outnumber~ Assembly—we look forward to|ed the faithful followers of the

Bennett Government on Friday
last at one of the most hectic
political debates seen at Sodales
for some time. The Honourable
members from  ‘‘Patilloville’’
and ‘‘Fisherville” did all they
could to defend the policies of
the Bennett administration,

The Imperial Conference, Unemployment, Tariffs, St. Lawrence Waterways and the monetary policy all shared in the
controversy. Mr. T. D. MacDonald, leader of the opposition
severely attacked the Imperial
Conference and protective tariffs asa whole:

Mr. Patillo, leader of the
Government took Tariffs and
Unemployment as his stand,
severely attacking the liberals
for their tariff system: Mr.

| Fisher, first speaker of the eve
ning enumerated the advantages of Empire trade. Mr.
Redmond of the opposition willingly attacked Mr. Bennett.
The decision was given to the
Liberals on a majority of 10—

Government—

: eur URABLE MAURICE DUPRE | the vote was 16 to 6.

      
     
  

General for Canada =
I speaker at the
oR the

» 7
‘

£8 >A
ee ee ee

Feague of! Tom MacDonald.

ert 7 ss cae a a

Art Patillo.
sition.

John Fisher.

David .
Redmond.

The Second Book Of Bunc

 

7. Now in the land of Dal
there are three Giants, and the
Giants rule in the tribes of Med
and Premed.

8. And the first of these
three mighty men is one who is
known to the populace as Ron,
and whose surname is Haze and
lo, his word is feared in the
ranks of the people of Byowe.

9. For he giveth the Okay
unto them who are gifted and
who can carry on the duties of
the men of Med; but they who
are slothfu] and cannot pass the
queez, lo them he doth slaughter
with a mighty arm.

10. And they who pass the
piercing eye of the man of Haze
are ushered into the power of
the chieftain Beeyen.

11. Woe unto them who are
slack and alas for their ambitions in the ranks of Med. For
like the lightning that pierceth
the heavens,*+so shall they be
pierced by him who knoweth the
secrets of Histol and Embryol.

12. And yet they who. survive and to whom the chieftain
Béeeyen sayeth, Lo, thou art
qualified and malyest continue,
even they must be tried a third
time.

18. For in the domain of
Med there sitteth the mighty
Ralf to whom is open the vast
secrets of the body and his fame
:s spread unto the four corners

of the land, even unto the men in
Law to whom he layeth down
the rules of Medic Juris, yea
verily on the Friday of each
week.

14. And the populace of Med
looks up: in awe and dread at
the son of Smith who also cometh
from Skutland; for their hearts
sink in fear as they tum the
manuscripts, yea the eight hundred, of Pathol and there is a
shaking of the knees at the
exameen.

15. And they who sit not
into the early morn and burn
the torch, and they who know
not of the basophyles, even
they shall be smitten by the
Giant Ralf, and even they shall
fall by the wayside.

16. These are the doings of
the thrée Giants and behold
they rule in Med and Premed.

Chapter 6.

1. And in the tribe of Law
there is a fortress and lo, it is
called the Law Libe.

2. And there are three keepers of the Law Libe, and behold
the youngest of them is learned
and wise, and his name is Makkawoy, yea the noted Jay bee.

8. And lo on a certain day
thee man  Makkawoy arose
amongst his fellows and cried:

Continued on page 6,

Nu Ee GS
Arrange Exchange

Any Canadian university students who have felt a strong
desire to correspond with students in far places may now
have their wish fulfilled, thanks
to a request which has come
from South Affrica to the secretary of the National Federation of Canadian University Students.

In South Africa, England and |
most European countries, the |
arranging of correspondence exchanges | is one of the most popu- |
lar functions of the national
students’ union. No demand
had heretofore been made for
such a service in Canada and.
consequently, the N.F.C.U\S.
has no correspondence exchange

The last game was played on
Saturday 26th, in spite of the
heavy downpour of rain, which
persisted throughout the after
noon. When the time came fir

which the game. was set, there
was no official referee but the
Captains of both teams agreed
to play and to recommend to
the League that the game be
recognized as a regular game

and that the winners be: credited
with. the customary two points
Whether or not this will be done
remains to. be seen.

The final whistle found “Dal
again victorious by a 5-2 score
and we do not see on what
grounds their right to the victory
can be challenged.

The Soccer Team has laboured
under great difficulties. All satisfactory hours for practice had
been taken by the Rugger teams
from Dal and King’s before they
had organized. They adopted
the only alternative—turned out
for taining from seven to eight

in the mornings. They were
also handicapped by the absence
of regulation goal-posts from

the campus as the Council of
the Students decided that their
necessity was not sufficient.
In spite of these obstacles
they have fought persistently
and are now nearing the conclusion of a series, which for
them has been very successful.

Carleton W. Stanley

 

 

bureau. Recently a letter was
received from the Corre ‘spon. |
dence and Magazine Exchange |
Department’ of the National
Union of South African Students
enclosing’ a list of five South |
African Students who wish to
correspond with Canadian Students. As the N-.F.C.U.S. has
no exchange bureau, the South
African request is being broadcast in the Canadian university
press.

Continued on page 6.

 

CARLETON Ww. STANLEY
(Tor.) M.A. (Oxon.).
Bisons of Dalhousie University’
who in this week’s feature contribution to the Gazette urges cooperation on the part of the stu
dent body.

*

RRY GHRISCMA

DIATE PTD DIATE IND NAD AD TID I DAD NAD NAD DNA AAR

nn
Baescit

 

 

Ria

 
 
    
   

    
      
  
  
      
       
   
  
    
  
  
 
      
           
     
         
    
        

  

   
 
   
   

 

 
 
   
 
 
  

   

  
     
     
  

  

 

  
      
  
 
  
    
 
   

e+ wok Bert er ee or ety . ei rl 7
Be ¢xVSlSlSoCC I «(No Exams F 7S sky Jak
Memey Sots: | COMMENT (|i. ee re Scanning Our Whis YP YAKS
nazetiC | ~~ Studes’at German C : Corner
Vipuce i he: | Daicarsit | Contemporaries. 3 eT
a ae as - The WarDepts. __ niversi' y
fans kas Ie 8) aie Th . : , ; :
dest College Paper: Be AE ec. C Krieger of shel Press Conscious ene
SRIAE ST || An Englishman’s Justification. || University of Toronto’ recently Columbia is -commercialized.| The freedom of the press
a. s Editor, - ss | ee — Eaves lecture os the: subject of The game is organized murder, being what it isn’t means nothing
JAN Cae Bee. § 3INS, B. A. A Japanese Complaint. . European Universities about the coach is overpaid, players}to Old Jake. The fearless old
se Rte WE: wn = : ‘ Which be. eelet es porte eres are subsidized and given prefer-|Indian fighter cares little for
ee ELIZABETH MA - a al — ~ ee. et uae apices wer ence in the assigning of scholar-| public opinion and still less for
on hac nent eo aeess | Fn teheee versity in Paris,” he stated, Se or eae lata “reddack Vim loch: peonte
* SAM MARGOL _ * | The War Debts. ‘Here Ap great Treedom athong| TOPs 22 We Bs Pee elie bce he coc: BO Peppis
i SST Tee atch 3 , : the students.. It is not neces.| Which they have not earned. like what he says about them the
nt er ee as ay ) At. the Lausanne Conference, } the for them to attend lectures| / His Knowledge was common|more garrulous he becomes;
ef NEWS STAFF. Bit A a {an understanding was teached air os Ain otk Baee Be tie tie talk on-the Columbia campus} Whiskey's ears are mounted on
aa edie Ss 2 Womens News eae guna te creator powers (the ee = as ‘versities of our con-|!0r @ considerable time~but no|long, long, tentacles, reaching
TAR! ees aS Sh RO ee famous gentleman S agrees ae ey, De. K = ata ite immediate action or investiga-|everywhere; what he doesn’t
“Ret i a ata ke he iad ment’’) that until a satisfactory et oc a, cen + < ite tion took place. Last year the] garrule about isn’t worth garrulgS ae Merle Purtill | _ |debt settlement had been reach-} Cosed bactsswith regarded’ fo * Editor of the University publi-}ing. Common Decency gets a
ee eu! ~ Marg. Montgomerie ed with the United States, the oe ording to him the amount |°@tion “the Spectator” used this} wide berth; Demon Lust’s ugly
gh See RSs i wre Laneanne Azeaty pe Te FOS of eee concerned in a material for an editorial, m a head rears itself frequently, at
Fg Sea PER eer es he Gray ratified. lhe American election ee a ee heel i, equat| Vain effort to create interest, | the same time getting the ‘Gazan pt Ce Seeomeee cee ek he | campaign caused the suspension Lhthher sc i ered in’-the pass | Suggesting the fprmation of ajette’” through the mails into the
pen et ew poms Peak ie Tt. + Cored 10: of action. Well, that campaign | *? a h ‘ ho ntti fo nt comunittee to investigate the re-| hands of its two thousand sub. Eero. + ard EE Oe che tae Larue ie JOST, is over. Now the question of] COUFS¢ TU Se et hee fae. ported irregularities. At Dal-|scribers. (Advertisement).
mvs oe eee : Poe ™@ Daa aee, vital concern is, will the United oy rH rate e nee ie housie this would have been| Every day the students find
Rint aia Oh ssa ote | Dorothy Vernon _| States cancel the debts owed to tensely een = ie Dr lect al]/ enough to arouse the authorities|something new to gripe about,
ogee,» SG " » BUSINESS STAFF. MED her. Their answer is a vigorous ae ; acne ae . Poe no | to. action, but not so at Columbia}or agitate for something they
; Pas ad iia Ree Grea SATE to" Asst. Business Manag a ee negative. Yet it is well to re-|° 8 oh sai t obey [It was not until this term, when|think they want. There are
es say . Be ars TP he 2 LS tS CHARLES Pee 1? ™ member that at Lausanne the | Ber fee h Mi ate numerous articles in the ““Spee-|several first class jackasses at
a a: ioe Mee ee uty 2 ot! sy Jean Britain British politicians had to fight Seta ee conc. ae this tator’ broached the subject a-| Dalhousie, about on a_ level
es 4) v4] . Charlie Lorway [night and day to induce the Ere ek Pe ee rn gain that a definite move was|with those discontented frogs

) ci

re
7 =~)

~ *, ~ hs =
eee

French;and ‘German politicians
to agree upon a Course of action
to which there was no alternative. George Glasgow, one of
= the keenest. among contemporeens eel use FY eat i ak | | ary political observers; ventures
rh _ THE MODEL ASSEMBLY OF THE LEAGUE OF NATIONS. | +, predict that when the world
APU PR Ss | As are | | _.. J financial and economie confer‘The Fifth Annual Convention of the Model Assembly of the/ence meets, the United States
ue of Nations has just been concluded at Mount Allison Uni- will cancel the debts owing to
sity. Fifty delegates, representing five Maritime Universities, | her, as France cancelled German
died and discussed the major problems that are now facing the Reparations Persuasion is a
sue at Geneva. ~ . = great thing, and so is optimism.
_.. Many are too prone ‘to overlook the advantages ‘of such/an John Maynard Keynes has writ| _. organization, and we can do no more than quote the words of therten a book called Essays in
-. ‘Henourable Maurice Dupre, Solicitor. General for Canada, who] peygyasion in which he says that
~~» was himself one of Canada’s delegates to the disarmament confer-}«j¢ we constantly act on the
Th ence at Geneva. “I am simply amazed at the serious attitude and optinustic hypothesis, this hypothe knowledge displayed by the students present. [ never] thesis will tend to be réalized,’

"| _ dreamed that such a keeness existed, and I will tell the people of \el], we shall see.
- Canada what I have seen at Sackville.” When a Minister of the i u

nm utters such words as these in all sincerity, the value of this
el League is definitely established.

The sessions themselves were certainly instructive. The
ay W al consciousness of the difficulties
a realization that it is upon the
fall the burden of carrying

°_. Proof Editor.

_ ERIC D. MURRAY
George H. Murphy
Editorial office B. 5676

Po

= a

       
  

ee

   

' ia <3 a

1,
a3
=

 
  
   
     
  
    
   
   
    
 
  
 
 
 

iene it

ah, tui

§

  

ca

On the other hand, it is necessary to recall that the United
States has agreed to take part
in the Economic Conference only
on condition that the subject of
we etwar debts and reparations be
otf Sees 4M) excluded from the agenda. How

yiwiee @ re

and a>

      

at (D
| SUP-lever, what seems to be generally

   

    
  

Map eee Joverlooked, and what was over~~, Hlgoked for some time by the
RRR nae 0) car aueanne, IF that the
s ed projected world conference is

5 ; a ap w2 y as
: ee cutive Committee are to be congratulated
| a action they ave taken in regard to the Hockey
aay on. ¢ Dalhousie, and their decision 10 enter an undergraduate
- team in the Intercollegiate League is hailed as the most forward
ys _ step that has been made for many years.
-- ‘The executive have taken a very significant action in that
ae “they have recognized that Dalhousie should be represented in Intercollegiate Sport by undergraduates. For the present, perhaps,
© calibre equivalent to the graduate players may not be immediately
ae available; but when students realize that now they have an equal
*~ chance with each other to represent their college on a. Varsity
team. while undergraduates, interest will not be lacking. _
-- _-. Dalhousie can now look forward to a new era in Hockey at
Zz Ry least, and when the “four year rule” becomes applied to all other
_. {Intercollegiate sports, our University will forge ahead—not ona
~ false enthusiasm—but on the basis of a sincere interest on the
‘part of every student on the campus. The Council would do well
_.> to give this movement its heartiest support.

       
   

not a beginning only, but the
outcome of a state of affairs
already established. It is indeed true that the ways of
diplomacy often seem designed
to ensure that no problem shall
be solved and that “‘in politics
a slight show of common sense
makes a man a hero,’ as we saw
happen to Mr. Macdonald at
Lausanne.

    
   

    
    
 

  

  

*

et ry

An Englishman's Justification.

We have heard many explanations justifying Japan’s advance in Manchuria; but here
is one which is strange to our
ears, considering the source from
which it comes and the weight
of authority behind it. Dr. E.
G. Dillon is not only an authority on this phase of foreign affairs, but he played a. material
part in shaping thems He describes Japan's advance in Manchuria “fas the result of an irrepressible biological impulse, of
@ preemtory law of nature,
against which artificial restric
  
 
  
  
   
 
   
   
  
  
  
  
 
  
        

   
  

ma %
i

     
       

EDITOR IN CHIEF RESIGNS.

w

Rime Veen ee
ei | Pa ee in
Raa Pent er

ES

It is with sincere regret that the news of the resignation
of Mr. Daniel Spry, Editor in Chief of the Gazette, and Mr.
ronow, Associate Editor, has been made public.
7 has left to enter journalism, a profession which
as decided to make his life work. Mr. Boronow is re
1ing to Montreal to enter the field of dramatic criticism.

‘he Gazette staff, as well as their many friends in the
\iversity, wish them the best of luck, and know that the
1 which they were associated will suffer as a result

soi =

u

ie |

oe

   
 
 

a

 
 

 
 

  

7 tions, however cunningly framed,
Bs - EDWARD B. HIGGINS. _. jare but as sounding brass ot a
ee - | Managing Editor.|tinkling cymbal.” Reduced to

the concrete, this statement
means that the Western Powers
must give up insisting on the
maintenance of the forms of
treaties where the reality is
impossible. In his opinion, the
Far Eastern problem is being
narrowed down to a trial of
strength between the United
States, where there isa large amount of prejudice being fosteris again the centre of interest}¢d,,and Japan—the former tak’) These discussions are very much] !"g. its stand upon the sanctity
Di Lewsoved. te and the abiding force of treaties,
ir pepe t= che | (which they are ready to violate
emt set oe A. tN) | hy | when expediency demands) while
Ma Pine Hill wishes to announce]the latter holds that her first
_ {to all the Ladies that may be] duty is to make decent provision

jimterested that they have now | for her sixty-five million citizens.
_ fsettled- down to studying and]Dr. Dillon casts his vote with
jthat no amount of persuasion| those who choose the latter alae 2m aside from their|ternative, and points out that
New Love, namely that of a]the Powers of the West bekind
{sea ch fo stow ledge, the Lytton Report are not sinalk invitations will be acceptable] sincere, since the first token of
afl er the New Wess 2% their sincerity would take the

 
 

PINE HILL. NOTES.

Pine Hill welcomes back one
of it’'sold members. Liv. Miller,
Liv. has just returned from a
a trip to Newfoundland.

Oe

Prof. Thomson’s Round Table

  

 
 
 
 
 

  
 
 
  

  

    

&
i
P| yaa ee ,
~ on “a .
ae ed ai? Fe Ne.
ae
7

 

)
¢
ree ‘
, ¥”
h je a
ie een ere 7
te. = diy OS ce

  

7 4,

   
  

 

Cave

      

  

4 “J > ; ad ' A . rn ao iy 2 aN a. i ' |
tae = ! y- ? * ise a ro a PS 2-3" ay ae . iz’ Ve ye
Vay a Fig Pe. rv *r ‘é eo - o i mn i, ‘i , z 4 ke : aly x PF / .s i? e . a, ewe ihe o cs
ee te i a i> ‘ is Cas ti a x hy a os 7e 5) 4 * ss : ce) he ar :
io. Pa ‘vied 4 ‘ ; é : , ; 4 ad
Cyr : December 1st, 1982 —

‘
on ‘
naa

    
  
 
 
  

a a

 

  
  
  

 

 

 

continent.

Medical Notes

made. Dr. Murray Butler,
president of the University, insensed at the bristling statements, appointed a committee
The Medical Dance was held|t© enquire into the-football conThe crowd..was| dition. Thus Columbia will
have a complete check-up of

who long ago asked Jupiter to
send them a king. First the
local De Valeras groused because dances were to be held
in the gym; now they gripe
because they are held downtown,
whither they are unable to

 

—downtown.
small, the music fair, the coffee

not too hot. All seemed to|feotball activities, which might} traipse, financially speaking. A
not have taken place had it not}fresh air fiend is now recom
have had a good time.
been for the perseverance of the

last week,|@ditors of the “Spectator” and
the third|the fearless attitude taken by

mending that compulsory .physical training be initiated. That's
just dandy.

Oa Thursday of
Dr. Atlee presented :
of a series of lectures.on Psycho- | @¥em.

pathology. The work: of Jung, bales een a ae Miss ef ?, one of the Outof Adler, and of Freud becomes| Press Union Meets _» |standing members of Shirreft
much clearer under the light}, The Intercollegiate Press Un-| Hall, sends us the following
of the Doctor’s unique and so| ion at their annual meeting, held| poem, written by her niece,

ee SSS

ddehjuntély| descriptive | power. in Toronto recently, elected M. aged two weeks. We reproduce
eee! E. Turner of the Western Gaz-|it by special permission of the
Tanton is at class now—his|€t, president for this term.| copyright owners:

arm. in a plaster bandage— Vhe Press Union is an organizabroken you know during a foot-| tion for the efficient distribution
ball game at Glace Bay. We of University news and was orare all very happy to have him ganized last voor McGill,
with us again. | Queens, Toronto and Western
; form the Eastern division of the
Union. Universities of Manitoba, British Columbia, Alberta,
and Saskatchewan form the Western section. To benefit college
papers is the aim of the Union
and all efforts are being made
along these lines. In order to do
this, the Union intends to develop co-operative news and sports
aie service, National advertising,
Any students desiring spare] syndicated Intercollegiate Featime work during the college} ture articles and united editorial
term, please send to any of the/ policies on subjects considered
undersigned their names and/important enough to wairant
addresses, indicating also what} this step. Itis hoped eventually

type of work they would do. | to bring universities of the Mari- |
time. Provinces’ into the Union Still small voice from rear:

It is not known how varied the
work is, or how much is avail-}and make the Service nation|‘And how do vou spell that last,
wide. Professor?”

THE OLD, OLD STORY

typewriting, and printing of posDo your Christmas Shopping Early

The girls of stately Shirreff Hall
Do live in goodly fashion,
To get a date with anyone,
They freely give their passion.
Although there are some nicer
ones, ie
The most of them are lousy,
And that is why I do not like
The co-eds of Dalhousie.

The medical interfaculty football team lost the title match
to the engineers—3 to 0. The
better team won.

 

English 11, soft music, denoting aesthetic appreciation as
the class listens to Prof. Jewett's
Oxonian rendition of Mr. Masefield: . é

Employment For
Students in I. S. S.

“* ...Fifteen brown
round her waist

“And then men ask, are barmaids chaste?”

arms went

eesti

 

 

 

ters for student societies. Further announcement will be made
of such other work as’the committee is able to’secure.
Ena Garber, Shirreff Hall. |
W-H. Jost, 8 Carleton St. |
;

|

 

R. T. Donald, $ Carleton St

 

Freshman Class | This year we are featuring snappier

 

 

Pacific
A purple ocean gleams with
heaving silver.
Sudden darkness, and a ripe
RnoOoT E
Stands éver the black horizon
And it is noon. |
|
A tepid night wind ripples softly |
Over the sea and seems
Gently to kiss the sleeping earth
Whispering in its dreams.
D. G,

shape of amends and restoration
ef their ill-gotten possessions.
Despite his arguments there remains in one’s mind the picture
of Japanese airmen’ swooping
down upon defenceless Chinese,
citizens, leaving ten thousand
dead in their wake. Ed ce

 

Adopt Year Pin and less expensive gifts for men.
Thursday, December Sth to| é :
give Bob Stanfield their orders) Hf Cigarette Boxes and Garters
by the class, that they would
adopt the same design as last |
ly attractive desien, so if youl’ Handkerchiefs in beautiful Cedar
soe ees teas woatic. | Cigarette boxes $1.35 and $2.00
Shirts, $1.95 up
Gloves, $1.50 to $4.50
Shane’s Mens Wear
50 Spring $fOP Garden oad
ae atin he eR Sead sf

Class 636” Lave only till A few suggestions--for class pins. It was decided
75 cts. and $1.00
year. The pin is of an unusual-)
notify, Bob as soon as possible. |
Pajamas, $2.00 and $3.00
Scarves $1.00 to $4.50
STUDENTS GET A DISCOUNT OF 10%

    

 

 

  

.

7 ys oi
¥

~~.

 
      

     
  
   

 

          
       
     
     
     
       
 
      
      
     
    
  
 
   
       
         
   
     
      
      
     
     
 
  

—— mre Tk Rp ee vg ae vo eos
3 Di SOT ae
oo ty Poth ny

!

“age
~,

 

i ab
>

pee Prot tad Mrs. |\President Stanley Reviews
‘ lish Activities of Past Term

        

    
    
 
 
   

  
  
  
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
  

sea at Prof. Ben*Inetts last Thursday evening
‘| They presented several Greek
‘tplays and one Modern ‘‘take“loft” of a Greek play. There
.|were no preparations for these
“| plays—the purpose of the eve,|ming was to give the students a
"; (general idea of how Greek plays
}were produced. After their en7 Jergetic performance Mrs. Ben“,{net served cofiee and cake.
Truly a successful evening.

 

1
at.
[.

athe!

a

s Discusses. Library, Physical Training, Book. Club
- and Discussion Groups

Iam very pleased that the Editor of the Gazette has asked me
to address a few words to the students, in the last issue of the paper
this term.

You have acquitted yourselves well this session. [ have
abserved, with great pleasure, that the Library and the reading
room have been used almost to capacity since the beginning of the
term. Most of you are remembering that you are, first of all, and
above everything else, students. You asked for additional library
facilities, and you have shown that you were in earnest by the use
of the facilities we have been able to accord you. You will be
glad to know, I am sure, that the new books, which we shall be able
to purchase in the near future with the $3,000 granted us by the
Carnegie Foundation, will be accessioned, catalogued, and made
ready for your use without delay. You have shown, many of you,
the same promptness in making use of the new books, which are
being added by the Book Club, housed in the gymnasium building.

With it all, you seem to me to be enjoying life to the full.
For some students, | am well aware it is a hard struggle to attendthe
University this year. But you are cheerful as well as brave. There
is nothing downhearted in attitude or countenance.

I see evidence of wider interest in games, and of more general
participation in them. Why any of you should wish “‘compulsion’’,
in the matter of taking exercise and the enjoyment of young health,
[ cannot understand. Surely thereare rules and regulations enough

 

|Dawson Geology
‘| Club at Bedford

A very successful meeting of
the Dawson Geology Club was
held at Professor Douglas’ home
in Bedford. It was really: the
first meeting of the Club this
year. There was a very large
attendanée in spite of the long
journey to Bedford. Professor

Ouglas gave an interesting talk

   
  

 
  
   

true spirit of lo
"to you, the student body, and it
~__ is your responsibility to see that
it is properly ‘eserve: for future
® Be “generations of Dalhousians.

WALTER -C. MacKENZIE

President of Students.
Council.

 

P rey on Spanish Geology, illustrated in the University? Spates of lectures, which you must attend;
Ae with lantern slides of the Rio|¢xXamimations, which you musi pass. What curious impulse
- . ——+- Tinto mines, where he spent} Prompts any of you to crave for more compulsion? You can swim,
ic , : .
it

and row, and skate, and walk, as free almost as the birds of the air.
You have the use of a spacious and well appointed gymnasium for
boxing, fencing, indoor games. If these exercises are not sufficiently

four years. Mrs. Douglas then
played a very charming Spanish
composition on the piano. The

7h Applica tions for the position of Editor in Chief of the

 

Dalhousie Gazette will be re- climax of the evening consisted |™gorous and disciplinary, there is the C.O. T. C., which offers you
ceived by M. M. Rankin, of delicious refreshments. excellent discipline. Freedom of choice to play football, basketball,
Secty-Treas. of the Students’ tennis, hockey; or to do none of these things, but to explore afoot
-. Council up to and including Soe, fest. eT , the wilderness and the paradise, which is marked on the maps as
f Tuesday, Dec. 4 at 6.00 p. m. “I’m from a big family, you know,”| Halifax County—how many of you really wish to give that up fo,
ro , said Smith, during a conversation|an iron schedule into which your bodies will be fitted in the same
M. M. RANKIN. phase big ae Keay way as your minds are thrust into pigeon-holes of lecture hours.
Secty-Treasurer. there?” caked vont OF 708 Ore band note-taking, into examination hours, and regurgitations? |
“There are ten boys,’ replied the| think I must leave further discussion of the question to the autho:

megs first, and each of them has a sister.” | of ‘“‘Bunc.”’
frie “What! Twenty of you?”’ It is very refreshing to know of the many informal discussion
THE PERFECT ACT, Oh, no, only even, groups which gather so often in the term. The Physics Depart

 

ment, I think, could easily prove that the centre of gravity of the

Prof, Jéhnston: This battery charges i : d ; a.
University lies pretty close to the heart of these informal groups

A kindly look means much, 5 vdlts.

_—_ A kindly word means mair, aie How muchis thatin Canadian} and clubs. This is a healthy mental reaction from the discipline}|@ heart, do!
) But better than batih 1s a kindly act | money of lectures.

This is where you express yourselves, arid are your
 

To. a freen wha's-girnel’s bare.
er exclude them from these festivities, which are your own.
one, wish to express my gratitude that you do not exclude me
from them.

Richard Crooks
Delights Audience

The first Concert of the 1932
1933 season of the Halifax Community Concert Association tas
held in the Capitol Theatre on
Wednesday, November 23rd at
8.15 p.m. The guest artist was
Richard Crooks, leading tenor of
the Metropolitan Opera Company with Philip Evans at the
piano. Needless to say the con
But what gladdens the heart 0’ man
— And pleases God abune,

4s the perfect act—the essence o
ck A-hind thing kindly dune.

Joseph Laing Waugh.

Presently, your thoughts will be away even from joys like these.
Your thoughts will be turning homeward:and holidayward. I wish
all of you a most enjoyable holiday and a very jolly Christmas.

(

 

Observer wants to know:

1, If Egbert has had a bid
to the Delta Gamma Tea Dance.
- 2. If Murray Ryan got his
ha

our encores. His. accompanist,
Mr. Evans played* two prano
solos, both of which were very
well received.

The next concert will be held} }

   

 

    

: t. ‘
te 3, Where Bill Scott got his a. Pes eee ga ep = on January 9th, 1933 featuring
| Nectique. eee ee eerie OF Nickolai Corloff, pianist as guest
= ws oS ou ; ee ; < - :
33 oo :, Rese it) aziv- rteen songs as well as numer DTT
way. —
ae : “Why did you have your

Be udee, Why did you. hs PROVINCE OF NOVA SCOTIA

her Prisoner, ‘I wantéd to find out the
ve i S , , 6

7 Mudge: “Six months Department of Education
* ee RUBBERS AND The administration of Education is centralized at the Edication Office,
et The ; Cheapside, Halifax, N. S.

   

ie

   

INSPECTION

7 ae

GALOSHES

    
     
   

       

ey
ie ree! STO The province is divided into 14 inspectorates. The bi-lingual districts
> ee i FOR STORMY DAYS of Clare and Argyle are in-charge of a bi-lingual inspector, as are also those
ak mica AHEAD of Richmond and Inverness South. There are an Inspector of High School's
mo or a Director of Rural Education Extension with a staff of helping teachers and
ey ‘Weare ready with the new styles an Inspector of Mechanic and Domestic Science.
|= | and shapes to fit men and NORMAL COLLEGE
| ~women. Also Men’s spats.

  

 
 

The Provincial Normal College is situated at Truro, the geographical
centre of the proyince. About 350 teachers-in-training attend this institution each year. The three provincial universities offer courses in Education,
qualifying for a license, after graduation with degree.

CENTRAL PROFESSIONAL LIBRARY

At the Education Office is a library of professional books for the use of
inspectors and teachers. These books cover all phases of education and are
extensively used by the teaching profession of the Province.

SUMMER SCHOOL
The Nova Scotia Summer School is held annually during July and
August at Halifax and offers a wide choice of professional and cultural

courses for teachers, students of education and others. The Faculty is
composed of university professors and other outstanding instructors.

SCHOOL BOOK BUREAU

A central bureau for the distribution of the prescribed school texts is
maintained at the Education Office.

RECENT PROGRESS IN EDUCATION

  
 

4,

 

=

AKSA® SHOES

 

ios
. ie

  

 

    

   
   

ee

   

     
  
 

 

| Adequate pensions on retirement for teachers, inspectors and Normal
professors. This should interest University students,

Increased Government Grants to teachers.
Increased Grants to weak sections, r
| Conveyance of pupils in sparsely settled districts has been encouraged,

“a

PE as EE ar ee Es OR OE ee TN TS I OR OT I

———

‘for rural education extension.

ude courses are now provided for teachers in practice and
sin remote and unorganized territory, both free of cost.

 
   

:

CARLETON W. STANLEY | trouble

 

_ Page Three

That Badminton Complex

By Professor C. H. Mercer

 

The best and worst about
the game of badminton is that
you play it with women. What
could be more inspiring than
the view from the stage of the
Dalhousie gymnasium any Saturday afternoon from 2.30 to
6 p. m., when 30 io 50 youths
and maidens are playing or about
to play mixed doubles together
in white and cream coloured
garments?

But ask our forefather Adam.
You remember how very happy
he was in the garden of Eden
until one day he discovered his
handicap. On being asked what
was bothering him, he replied
meekly: ‘The woman whom
thou gavest me.”

[t's not the fashion for young
ladies to be energetic nowadays,
don't you know. They tell me
that they have to be coaxed and
coaxed and coaxed in order to
move themselves beyond the
running-beard of a Chevrolet
Sedan.

So, casting aside all my customary professorial dignity—
girls, ladies! young women!
let me entreat you to take a
more serious interest in the
game of badminton, particularly
as you have been presented at
no small with the finest
collection of courts in the Maritime Provinces, the finest of any
college in Canada and among
finest in the world.  Incidentally, the artificial lighting
is about L0O% perfect.

COST

the

Won't you do your best. to
support those fine young men
in their determination to. win

the Elkins challenge cup this

winter? What's the matter with
your They can’t challenge
without you, remember. You

have them at your mercy. Have
Please!
| have no right to offer advice

ite en ie ee Se
selves. And itis a pleasure to your elders that you do not altogeth- to the men, masmuc h. is | was
I for| badly defeated myself last Fri
day im the match with the students. Their main weakness in
singles is too short a service.
Will the shuttle, if left to strike
the floor, drop within 3 inches
of the outer back line— In
doubles, of course, the chief
is to clear from your
to the opponents’

left corner

RRR RT ATR CR CR CR TN TN

EATON’S For Gifts

Dressing Gowns

and Robes

EATON'’S offers a large and comprehensive selection of men’s dressing gowns and
robes from which to make your choice for
Christmas gifts.
in rich coloring and smart designs with
contrasting binding and ‘girdle to match.
Also a range of wool robes that offer the
utmost in warmth, value and smartness
at a moderate cost.

 

The

wool lined,

$9.50 © $25.00

Made by Forsythe, they meet the demand
for something new in shirts,.
materials in club stripes of blue, mauve
and green, pin stripe effects, smart grounds
with self patterns, etc. With two starched
collars to match. Sizes 14 to 164

$1.95 » $3.00

Stylish Neckwear

A most complete range offering neckties
ol rayons, silks and silk and wool--many
designs and colorings and a large number
of imported fabrics to choose from.

75c. .. $1.50

EATON'S Main Floor.

¢T.EATON.C?,.

Y Setar es hes ea a

left corner. The shuttle goes
so far, does it not, and no farther
and no farther, and is slaughtered from mid-court by any fair
smasher or picked off by the
girl at the net?

Why not practise these two
shots and nothing else for a
couple of weeks? Never mind
about wiping the floor with
your opponent everybody
knows you can do that. Ask
him if he would mind tehing
you whether you are hitting
the (outmost) back line in your
(singles) -service, and do the
same for him if he happens to
be anxious to improve also.
Next, get him to give you high
ones to the (left) back-hand
corner—crack, away she goes
diagonatly to the last inch of
the opposite back-hand corner,
right inside the square (Sautter, English expert, says that
you ought to run round all your
back-hand shots, but this is not
easy; in the first place you have
to stand on one leg with your
head behind your left shoulder,
and secondly you mal lose your
balance and fall on the back of
your Read).

As for the ladies—you know,
gentlemen, we must not get
mad at them, it isn’t Christian.
Besides, if she refuses to play
up at the net, you yourself may
be the main reagon. So, if she
approaches you with a smile
and says innocently: “Oh, Mr.
Rabbit, would you mind if we
played the way we play in
men’s. or women's doubles, sideand-side, because I’m so weak
at the net,’ she may mean: “Say,
do you think I’m going to make
a fool of myself by standing at
the net to be shot at while you
stumble around the court like a
clumsy elephant?”

(Continued on page 4 col, 6).

>. ———————

_ Med,—What’s the age

Commerce students?
Engineer—Say, baby, a Commerce

student at any age is the limit.

limit for

 

Murray Ryan: This is a battle or
wits,
Morry Clennett: How brave of

you
to come unarmed.

 

   

Rayon brocaded gowns

Priced from

New Shirts

Imported

Each

All

Each

 

 
    
 

ap oP ee

    

 
    

es der t Stanl y

a’ .

  
     
     
    
      
 

"|. The* Biology Club met* on

‘s,and] Monday evening last, in the
Ee ee with a véry
ur| /arge number in attendance.

   

ter the business meeting

sy = Athe president introduced Presi
  

dent Stanley, who spoke in a

P S| most interesting manner on

i “Biological Theories of the AnRe cient Greeks.’’ He also spoke
Pee |of modern problems of biology.
oe After the address everyone join4 ed in the discussion, meanwhile
ae |}consuming coffee and crackers,
UR oat until it was necessary to closeth

building for the night.

A Fish Tale

Though there are many kinds of schools

  
    
    
    
    
     
    
 
   
     
    
   
  
   
    
      

 

   

     
 

.-.> ot they The best I think hold forth in pools,
LT te tt i Fir t Attended by cat-fish,
ay Pluck lot she cared when I kissed|) —_Flat-fish, and fat-fish,
z “her in ** 7903, __.| And boasting no set of iron-clad rules

Mand her in | Bie eee te i Li)
Pir, Till come bac k * t ay. ts!
ies om pat se are See The Sar wase baeies, so the well!
i can os: 2 , % : iL ihe 1a) ¢ . ind me—lon : ~ in orme say,
Sara a a oes > a ; With a graceful attempt at a seaman’s
An? there ain't no taxis runnin’ from ballet,
|) the “Hall” up to the “Gym” ; Danced Fe the damp-fish,

i oe tte resi Tere in Halifax what] Scamp-fish, and vamp-fish:
ae an experienced poppa tells: _ A good appetizer to start off the day
“Tf yon’ve 'eard the Halla-callin’, you

. ok F you ; = ; ieee OY
“won't never need naught else.

No! you won't need naught else
. But them hashy, garlic smells, |
An’ Sunday night cocoa—an
ot * Oly of hoty’ bells, .
Sure Fit go back an’ have my say.

es ote |
s-‘*T'm sick 0” wastin’ money on these

> bp

=e

=
a

They finish their dance with a fishy
ike ee Dp, , ;
And nibble their lessons on pieces o!
F P;
And classes of fret-fish,

_.. Wet-fish, and net-fish,
‘Read noones paperand ask for no help.

Bee Sele oe” aa , dizzy janes, ; They study germs froma water-proofed
eown hey Aa ip Rgatdhoe I get is ‘‘cold- __ book; ae (
-—— shoulderea’’ for my pains; _ | And dissect all the microbes that live
Pho’ I walks with fifty “Hall” girls} in the brook,

‘outer class to hot-dawg stand; And the rule of higher-fish,

ss An’ they talk alot’o’ lovin’, but do they Dire-fish; and squire-fish,
Rte understand— bigee Isthem as plays hooky dies by the hook
ea “Painted face an’ tinted hand — .

They live a life that is calmly serene;
They have a king-fish and even a queen,
[ And all of these sea-fish—
He-fish and she-fish,

'—s Law wot do they understand- |
sve a sweeter, neater maiden, in a
eee ey oy
iy oo ea to” ; ;
a peak eae = Maintain decorum without need of a
es ee. et Ay ae
) me: here east o’ Dartmouth, | dean,
ane Fea Bree tue best is like the worst, . — Silver and Gold.
re ther ie n ;

 

     
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 

  

‘tno ten “A. 1" quesor don’t raise a thirst;

 

    

  

lecture in Room 3 and you'll be con
ose who would introduce

|ehaw. To th

rice. ee
as .

   
  
  

a

Are somewhat alike ~
Yet different somehow.
But how can they be?
h, yes, I see now—
It’s the dalm, thoughtful look
-. On the face of the cow.
—The Gateman

 

 

- a:
#
7

Experts who would have us believe
that chewing spearmint enhances facial
contours, e a line,
i CREE. er tate give ibe the

ewers. ’ have given |
pernicious habit. Dou Mint gt@iler
_ wizzened and hardened with old age,

desdlate and forsaken, ont
Examine

= 2 ¢

less of thie’ advice of Beauty

 

  
 
   
    
   
    
 

 
 
  
 
     
       
       
     
 
   
   
  

I.S.S.is collecting books
for the unemployed. Will
any students or professors
who have books of light
fiction, or magazines with
which they are finished
please leave them with one
of the following. This

work is extremely impor
| tant and we feel sure that
our appeal will meet with
eo support.

tudley — Macdonald
_ Memorial Library (In order toassist the librarians
oe leave your books

tween 10 a. m. and 4

i ear eon
= Aiea underside of lecture pews. Ex
- —s—s—ssyouir seat the next time you have a

|| FINAL NOTICE |}

All students who left
jooks at this store, to be
old, previous to May Ist,j}/

1932, are warned that un-jj,

less they prove their own-|]|

-—s flership before Dec. 31st,}}}

--—-—s«4/1932, and take the books

--_ tlout of our hands, the Sto

will take the liberty to

oe |.
2

 

   

 
 
   
     
  
  

   
  
  
 
 
   

  
   
 
 
  
  
 
 
 

  
   
   
    
   
       
      
 
   
 
 
  
  

  
 
 
  
  
   
   

   
   

 
    

ie OB eae p- m.).
at a. rere ae = || Forrest Building — Miss
one }|] | MacDonald’s office.

Rie E. BISHOP, |||] Shirreff Hall—Miss Doro
7 ee M 1 |} thy Redmond.
ee ky manager, |||] Kings College—Mr. Allan
_|jDalhousie University Sotre|||} Findlay, Room No. 434.

.
ma

     
  
 

 
   
  
        
   

 

te. vincedthatthisisso. Believeitornot,
1 her aur ‘‘Gooil Lookers’’ positively do not 10

  
  
 

sDcyseBiaba uct dade

| case in the corner should not be overlooked.

   

Conducted by Rufus V. (Sam) Cumbersme

(By special permission of the My husband held fifteen cards
| Four Marx Brothers)

My Dear Mr. Cunibersome:

_ I was playing bridge the other
night with my husband and
two gentlemen when the following peculiar. hand turned: up.
How would you bid it and play
it is you were playing with your
husband? But you haven’t a
husband, have you, Mr. Cumbersome? How positively silly of

 

his mustache.
hand what what it is worth
or will swap on a used typewriter.

Do drop in any time you are

me. I meanif you were playing/down near the Atlantic, Mr.

with your wife or are you a peace | Cumbersome.

advocate? MRS. REVOKE.
I was North, or shall we say te

South? I catch chills so easily.| Dear Mrs. Revoke—I was

The rising young player, Mr
Fleischman, was playing Yeast.

A Visit To The Archives
by
J. S. MARTELL, B. A.

glad to receive your hand. [I'll
return it at my earliest oppor
 

A student’s appreciation of the Archives of Nova Scotia is the
request made by the Gazette to the writer. Suchanappreciation can
only be gained by personal visits to the Archives. If this article
stimulates the interest to make such visits, its purpose will have
been achieved.

Considerable thought has led to the conclusion that the best,
if the least pretentious, method of writing on the Archives is by an
informal verbal tour of the building. In such a tour the average
reader will not be bored by acadenjic discussion and may become
curious enough to visit some point of interest along the way. The
Archives building is happily situated on Studley campus and is
accessible to all students. Fhe educational advantages of this fact
cannot be overestimated but have-yet to be realized by Dalhousie students.
Flowever that may be, let us ester the front door of this fine three
storey building, which is completely fireproof and modern in every
respect.

In the lobby of the ground floor, the eye is immediately caught by two
miniature cannon of shining brass, These cannon saw service th the stirring
days of Indian raids, when they warned the early settlers of Lunenburg to
leave their fields and seek common refuge in the block hduse.. Nearby, a good
sized model of the well known Hector will quicken the hearts of all good Pictonlans. On this floor there are thousands of documents still waiting to be taken
from their dusty boxes, cleaned, filed and placed in folios—ready for the manuscript library. This work is-done in a room which, stretching the length and
about half ee breadth of the Archives, has its counterpart on the above floors.
ne side of it is lined with complete files of old and present newspapers, which
constitute a perfect mine for historical work. The Acadian Recorder, which
ceased publication within the last few years, goes back to 1818, At one end of
this room, the bindery is situated and here the decrepit books of the Archives
library are repaiyed, and periodicals, pamphlets and books are bound. A class

+) c ea, ee = 5 ane . P “ate en sd *- .
room, adjoining this main room and containing pictures and books on art, is
Hi provided for the students of Fine Arts,

An automatic and efficient elevator takes us up to the second floor, where
a visitors’ book is waiting to be signed. Here are the offices of the Archivist,
Professor D, C.. Harvey, whose energy and organizing ability have been re:
sponsible for the improvements in the building and the development of the
Archives. The Halifax or Cornwallis room on this floor is one of the most in
teresting in the building. The original council table, around which sat the
first Council under the Hon, Edward Cornwallis on the transport Beaufori in
1749, rests here in peace. A+ portrait of Cornwallis, ounder of Halifax, and
those of his two brothers, the Archbishop of Canterbury and Richard Cornwallis,
hand on the walls. Original and copied engravings of Short enhance the value
of this room, which also contains an exhibit of Arthur Lismer's lithographs
made at Halifax during the Great War, On the council table, there is an actual
copy of the first paper to be published in Nova Scotia, The Halifax Garette (1752),
and beside it’lies the first edition of the Acadian Recorder (1813). A little show. It contains original pieces of the
Cheasapeake, the Shannon and the Teaser, the pipe and spectacles of the ‘‘old

| Attorney General.of the Province,” Richard John Uniacke, and a pair of flint
lock pistols, belongfhg to Martin Von Kaulback, an original settler of Lunenburg
in 1753. The genetat show or exhibit room attracts the interest’, It is filled
with show cases and historical portraits and pictures, Here may be seen the
first edition of Marc Lesearbot’s ‘‘ History of New France,’’ printed in Paris in
1609 and also the first edition of John Smith’s ‘' History of Virginia,’ published
at London in 1624. Original Township grants, individual land grants, Indian
treaties and an actual Indian catechism are among some of the rare exhibits in
this room. ‘The MacMechan Ship Collection is on display here and also a
model of the Biuenose, a late acquisition of the Archives.

The library is situated’on the third and top floor. The manuscript and
colonial history division is separated from the modern history division by a
student room, where seminar classes in Nova Scotian and Canadian history are
conducted and where students may read or study. Steel grili work divides the

|room and modern steel equipment supplies every library. need. The manu
script library contains original and copied documents of every description pertaining to the history of the Province: Im general, the printed material covers
the period prior to 1867 or Confederation. The feature of this section is the
Akins Library, which comprises the major portion of T, B. Akins’ justly famous
historical library. These books were inaccessible to the world for a period of

| 40 years, by thesterms of Mr. Akins’ will, which specified that, only when housed

in a pttblic archives of Nova Scotia, would they become free for public inspection,
Some of the books are priceless and of extraordinary value to a student of history. The modern historical library is still in its infancy. Empty stacks
await the books which, it is hoped, gifts and prosperity will bring. If some
shelves are unfilled, other shelves contain’ books of the greatest utility for students, especially in reference work.

The office of the librarian is situated behind the modern library and here
classification work is being done on books and pamphlets as well as index work
on manuscripts, In adjoining office, documents are calendared. The pictures
on the wails of the student room and the modern library are of especial interest to
Nova Scotians. Around the walls of this room are copies of the hatchments—
armorial bearings—of distinguished personages who lie buried in the vaults
of historic St. Pauls. The originals are still in the church. Perhaps the most
interesting hatchment is that of Govétnor Charles Lawrence, of the Acadian
Expulsion fame, The remaining room to be seen contains an exhibition of

| pictures of the Nova Scotia Museum of Art.

The tour is over. The elevator takes us down to the front door. Many
things have been overlooked on the way but the exigencies of space prevented
further enumeration, Visit the Archives yourself and see what we have missed.

 

Marvels of Science:—A scientist is a

tunity-in ¢ase you should-wish to
play the piano. . te

I see‘ aothing wrong. with’ the

fact that. your. husband had
fifteen cards.’ I often get such
hands myself -whea-I’m dealing

+ -——/and~Fonlty-had-eleven, but it is}and ° the, - fudge - is: sticky, In
really immaterial in the play ofjfaect,-I prefer fifteen- cards. as
the hand, Mr. Cumbersome. My] it gives.a better choice and you
husband wasdéaler. He is very | remember the old song, Choice,
absentminded at times. You'd] we have
be amazed to know how often | often thought of advocating fifI have to comb him to remind| teen card hands.

Well, here is the}’ North should reconnoiter West’s

no bananas.’’- I’ve

hand, while South is | laying
down her hand. He sees possibilities:of a slam and with the
ball on the. opponent’s forty
yard line, calls for a forward pass.

‘*42-86-793-East- West-. four
clubs-double-hike,” but the pass
is intercepted by West who has
just found an ace up his sleeve.
Folks, it looked like a sure goal!
And here conies North! Watch
that bird skate! Here he comes:

The ice is lightning fast.. He’s
past the defence and two on

bases when he’s tripped by East.
The spectators are booing. East
shakes his fist at both of them,
South is tellmg West that East
if he had been North, would
have refused to. stand for West’s
tripping South’s partaer without
West telling East about North’s
trip. However, he preferred to
play his diamond and the game
ended with the score: Varsity
17, Roughriders 3,

I hope this solves your problem, madam, and I’m sure your
husband was wrong.

In case you have further
queries, [ would ask you _ to
address me at the Government
Nut Hatcheries, Weyburn, where
[ will be stationed for some time
to come, Goodnight, sir, and
if that’s your lowest price, [’l
take. a couple, alothough it’s
nothing but highway robbery.

Yours indignantly,
Rufus V. Cumbersome.
~The Sheaf.

_—_—

The Dalhousie

_ University Store

In the Examination
Room you need:

A SMOOTH WRITING PEN

Get it at the University Store
A CLEAR THINKING MIND;

Get a bracer at the store before
the exam.

And don’t forget our
20c. Lunch.

BE SEEING YOU!

 

 

Ba

a ee a =

There is;. so. far as: my own
experience reaches, no recognised

technique for men's and women’s.

doubles. Personally, I object
most empliatically to a male
partner who insists on trying to
be funny in matches, i. e. who
makes a regular habit of dropshots or tip-at-the-net watchem-run shots. They almost
invariably fail at.critical points,
and are very annoying to the
partner who is playing a steady
back-court-plus-smash game,
Talking about smashes, the part
ner you must -get rid of without
delay is the fellow who lets vou
smash a bird from three-quarters
court.and refuses to rush to the
net to: kill on the return. Incidentally, Victor Oland is a
genius at finishing off the returns from his partner’s smashes.
To sum up the whole art and
theory of badminton fours: one
and one never make two, but
three, There must be scientific,
scientific, pre-arranged, _predetermined. combination. Two
mediocre players combined will
defeat two lone-handed singles
champions every time. :

 

 

Serving a

Feast Twice

Daily

_ A feast of the latest: news
jand features..... :

: _Sports, Local and Foreign
IN@wss ines

: 7. ~ .
artons. S).e @ 8 & Everything
New when it is new.

The Halifax Herald

and

The Halifax Mail

Say “G flerry Xmas”

By Long

Distance

 

_ Why not call your friends by
Long Distance this year and say

*“A Merry Chirstmas’

’--~A greeting

by word of mouth is so much more
personal and gives unbounded joy.

Long Distance

charges to many

points in this Province are little
more than the cost of an ordinary
greeting card--Glance at the list
gtven in the Telephone Directory
and if you require further partic
 
     
     
     
    
    
   
   
  
      

  

1 FROM THE
Til acne; START
For 60 years the pag Trade
Mark on Sportin a been
‘m= mark of

 
  

      
  

     
 

“eo No matter

  
  
     
    

     
  

Fo | eh what your favorite sport may be
) F or Birthda or | We ‘can st ply you-with uipm t
CRAGG BROS CO.,

Limited _
Hardware and Sporting Goods

i
oe 2 . ic

i ee an 7 a oe 7 + at ,
: ee | = ; A s i, 2 a ae = _
| Tt pros ed he

| NICKERSON & CREASE

| man who can find a section of petrified

thigh-bone and tell that it’s primitive
owner had a receding chin.

Seely: Haven't I seen you somewhere
sometime?

Stoddard: Quite likely. I’ve been
there,

     
   

Limited

_ Wholesale Fruit and Produce
574-578 Barrington St.

HALIFAX, N. S.

   
  

ulars, call Long Distance Operator.

Long Distance Greetings Are
Warmest And Most Personal.

MARITIME TELEGRAPH & |
TELEPHONE COMPANY LIMITED

 

  
    

’

y a

t)
Z ‘S)
x

ot
* Jay
*
ue)
4

i
2

                        
    
   
    
    
  
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

mn
;
uch bees < yong

_PALHOUstE GAZETTE

ee <

“The Student's oe

a a nu “i
lad ho. vist my ae frequently,p..
a ey sii thenother mem: the oar

little crack
| ma someone other

are ems ioe
column
dg rig froin the letters that
ey each week. Observer
wed two letters on the
“Problems of Modern Youth.”
um not Susie or Miss Dix but:
Edit tempt to answer these
as best Ican. Also some colze seandal which Observer _
of Ne as ; keen enough; to detect.

ee — ‘

are been at college now for two
ind I have done nothing to’ dePeeing into your column. |

vineteen years of age, no more no

and have been confining my at
tions to a Shirreff Hall girl.

scems to like my company quite a
but lam afraid she has only
to eollege for a good time. She

= and, personally, I detest],

vee should : ea Prease

AS Yours seebecity:
ht 4 JOE SCE [ULTZ

tse am, ‘not Siaale but I will try to lift

ad off your mind, I advise that
take another girlout for six months,

4€ Meantime she can be going with

» other fellow and you would,both

appy. Remember, you are «still

! gand very inexperienced, Bridge

s nothing to do with your problem.

e gives you an icy stare when you

on a, long walk give her the cold

shoulder. Take a couple of aspirins

2 am | ry yttle ‘of Pop and think it over,

Wi bi eas

One of the pathetic sights of
_ the week end was Murray Ryan
na al s “Joe College”’ wandering
ri rls if they were going to the
re ‘ dance. Some said ‘‘yes’’

‘and some “no”? but the “‘no’s”’

sabdin't take the hint and

= partook of tea at home.

late sorry Gilbert that we are not
to publish your picture this week.
you can explain how your team
eated by the Engineers and
» could: ees the snapshot,
us been named the. “Athletic
by emer a | ce |

| Ml ont! ¢ job,

IT:  Oueacoats
LL | DRESS and

é Te Top Tailors

“THE STUDENT’S TAILORS
| TRAMWAY BUILDING

fi Barrington and Sackville Sts.

| Sugsest—

et Dean Sir: —

are eaguot a
as I ne ‘hat solution would you

» 7

FREDDY THE FRESIIMAN,}
Soluti _—
Your predicyment i is a difficult one.
But. somuch that you love each
other, I see no reason why nature
should not take its course. You could
sive your brother .a dollar and two
tram car tickets and send him in town.
Meanwhile, entertain the irl at your
home’ antil 11.30, At 11.30 retire to
your frat house and spend the rest of
‘the evening there. Take the date on
March 1st. This method may prove
successful. If not try Sargon or see
Ab” Sorbine Jr.

Gossip and plenty of it is
what the Observer thrives on.
As he entered the Arts Building
he noticed a group of Co-Eds
heads together (as usual).
Creeping stealthily nearer he
overheard | two words “Fraternity Pin.’’ ‘‘Ah this was too
good to miss.’’ He crept closer
**‘Martha ’’ spoken clearly followed by “‘Bobby ”’ and then
an untranscrible muttering.
Just then the class bell rang
and all dispersed leaving the
the Observer dumbfounded.

“‘Bobby”’ “Martha” ‘*Frater
nity Pin.’’ Who can these
_ people be/ Hope yeu appre
ciate the carnations Martha.

The Observer understands that the
lawyers have a good softball team this
year. The short-stop is the best man
on the team. He ttops everything
including baseball bats swung by wild
batters. -In short Patillo is quite a
player.

“Ten dollars or ten days,"’ boomed
the judge. “Ten dollars,’’ replied a
prominent cub lawyer. Thus the
sheckles changed hands. Why were
parking rules made, one might ask?
To give Budding Barristers a few tips

in Court Procedure is the logical an-],

was Potter to

line means ‘‘no

But then how
white

‘swer
know that a
* ¢

parking.

Ralph Ells: Milton you
would make a good centre if
you could learn to go down the
_ floor and back again on the
‘same day.

A woman was having ae upper
= jon of her house’ painted and she
d ape the painter was ane

| “Painter, are you working?” s
| shouted at the foot of the stairs. _
“Yes, ma'am,’ ’ came the reply.
“T can’t hear. you.”
“Well do yer think m putting it on
with a hammer?”

PIANOS, RADIOS, VICTROLAS,
Small Musical Instruments
and Victor Records

We invite you to join our

Fiction Lending Library

2 cents per day

McDonald Music Cp

393 Barrington Street

For The Sport’s Lover

 Here’s a holiday
you.

store ready to serve

We offer among scores of sug
gestions the following items:

_ Skating

Ri.
- Boots bod Skate Outfits Xmas Special

_ $3.00 to $3.95.

x Cc. M. Outfits $6.00 to $17. 00.
. complete line of C. C. M. and Starr

ci: ont skates, in hockey, pleasure and

- fancy models.
tt sticks, gloves, pads.

“Cael

i! _ Golf eer

> out with her as much a paragra “treatment of ladiés and

“Team Manager”’ and “Just J

In he " Gasette” last week 1 noticed
paragraph which deplored the dis
professors so prevalent. among men
studentsat Daihousie. Iconsider this
eriticism to be entirely justifies. There
are shme individuals to whom good
breeding and courtesy are not absolutely unknown, but most men do not
seem to realize that politeness is not
ee and unnecessary. Surely
it would not be too much of a trialto

stand when a’ professor enters the]

room, and toallow a woman precédence
t such places as doors and stairways.

With-regard to the honour system of
wetting examinations it seems’to be
entirely impracticable, I venture to)
assert that very few students could
write an examination under the conditions described without any outside
assistance whatsoever. If one person
cheats, is the next to play fair—with
the probability of flanking—and watch
his neighbour get through? I don’t
think so. As for ‘‘the feeling of suspicion and distrust prevalent at this
time'’ between students and professors,
the new system would not mend
matters: Is the faculty to have such
implicit faith in a student's word that
if an outstandingly well-written paper

is received they will award high marks

without question? Again I think not.
The honour system would do more to
create mutual distrust than to destroy
it,

Moreover, is.a student going to
split on anyoné he sees cribbing? That
won't do him any gooc, and what’s the
use of getting other people into trouble?
that won’t do any good either,

Admitted the present system has its
fauits; but theseare generaily exaggerated and enlarged upon far more than
they deserve. No student who is in
good health and is moderately well
prepared for an examination is going to
suffer a nerveus break-down as a
result of it. It is only those who have
to plug feverishly that overstrain their
nervous system; and upon their own
heads ke their just reward.

Yours sincerely,

CITY CO-ED.

The Editor,
Dalhousie Gazette.

| Dear Sir:— ‘

ache n
ee
tive” has put me, if I might say,
the spot.”’
A certain section of Studley are under

The controv ersy Ww aging

| the impression that ‘‘Just Inquisitive”
€] and the Manager of the Arts & Science

Football team is one and the same]
person.

Let it be knows that I have at no
time expressed my opinions without
having the courage to back them up
with my signature.

The Arts & Science squad are entirely
satisfied that unforseen: circumstances
necessitated the postponement of the
Football game in question, and that
the Manager of Interfacutty Football
cannot be held responsible for something that happens outside his jurisdiction.

I might suggest that the D. A. A.C.
should give its full support to Interfaculty Football, concerning hours for
games, appointing referees, etc.

Very truly yours,

Fr. X. MACKASEY,
Artsand Science Manager.

Badminton

Phinneys have a great assortment of
Badminton Rackets.

Here area few of

the most popular models—

Slazenger G. A. T.

Queens

Buckley

Pt
Ane ttt tt

Popular

Cheltenham
Dunlop Special

$13.50
13.50
8. 00
6,00
7.50
3. 95

Press included.

Athletic Goods

Boxing Gloves.
Gym Shoes and Pants.
Club Sweaters.

Isthe Soviet Krem-|

 blin to Pieces?

” Should there bea tariff against
articles on Russia coming. into
this country? Should we refuse
to recognize the Soviet until we
have been properly introduced?
Should we finesse our partner’s
lead? Ask yourself these questions and see what fool answers
you will get. But let us get
back to Russia....no, you go
back, I think I'll hang around
and see if they will invite me to
supper.

In order to give our readers a
true picture of the Russian
scene, free from bias and misleading inaccuracies, we interviewed Nikola Dry nk, erstwhile
Field Marshall, who has, since
his exile, been engaged as doorman at a local theatre. Nikola
was banished from his native
land on account of how he was
vulgar. on the Volga. We give
the interview in his own inimitable and naive style. He admits he doesn’t know where
Russia is going to. Tsk, tsk
that sentence ended. with a
preposition, but isn't like just
like that, one preposition after
another. Take Unemployment
Relief. There’s a tough proposition, and if you don't take it
I will, Gawd knows I need the
money.

“How do you account for
Russia,’ we asked Signor Drynk,
with a proud toss of our curly
head, and then with lilt in our
voice we added, “‘and if so why
not?”

“Shesabadawan, deesaRussia”’
replied Nikola, pouring his mug
of vodka down the neck of the
distinguished gentleman three
rows ahead. ‘‘Begorra lad; its the
blasted moujiks that’s the curse
of the ould land. Personally I
don't loike the spalpeens, give
me the moujik of George Olsen’s
band ivery toime."’

“They tell me that you are a
scion of the noble House of
Vitch,”’ we said hoarsely as our
sensitive nostrils quivered with
" indignation.

“Chass aber I dunt belief in |

I

‘scions. chust as you say, am

a true son of a Vitch, Ze|
‘Canadaw, she is a ver’ fonny|

place. She’s havee so moch
wheat she starve most to deat,
by gar.”

“Who, in your opinion, is the
greatest figure in the Soviet
today,’ we asked quietly, giving
no indication by our quiet speech
of the passion which surged within our scrawny chest. ‘“‘And if
not today,’ tomorrow, or a week
from Friday, if it isn’t raining.’

“Ay tank she’s anomder one
the greatest figure, by yee.
Every guy hesa out for heemself.
I try heem the five year plan but

shesa no fit to drink even then.”
—The Sheaf.

Dal Profs Wins

From Students

Winning 138 out of the 25
matches played, Dalhousie Pro‘fessors gained victory over a
team representing the Students
of the Univ ersity by a one point
margin in a series of exhibition
Badminton matches played at
the Studley gymnasium Friday
evening.

Eleven of the twenty-five matches went in to three games
before a winner was decided,
and of the remainder a number
went into extra points.

During the course of the
evening, refyeshments were served by a.committee of ladies, consisting of Mrs, W. E. Stirling,
Mrs. H. L. Bronson and Mrs.
C. H. Mercer.

Halifax Ladies College

Conservatory of Music

Music in all Branches.

Teacher’s Certificate,

U. K. C Notes

“Two baskeiball games and a
List stile road racé featured this
week’s athletic activities at
Kings: » With only six men available for the basketball team,

Kings made a creditable showing |

in each game. Playing the Y
‘Pirates on Monday night the
Kingsmen defeated them 34 to 30.
But on Wednesday evening,
playing a combinalion of the
Dal teams, they were unable to
hold them, and were defeated
23-16.

The annual Road Race took
place on Saturday, the 26th.
Nine men entered, of whom
seven finished the gruelling sixmile run. W. E. Hart and J.
E. Andrew, finishing the long
grind witha ‘hundred yard sprint,
tied for first place: time 36
minutes, 40 seconds. J. Crosby
came in third and then three
Juniors, H. Graven, C. Prati and
H: D. Smith crossed the line to
gain the Class Cup for the year.
A Cup ts given to the winning
man, a Cup to the winning
Class, and medals for the first
three men to finish.

The Dramatic Society: of
Kings intend to put en two short
plays in the Residence on Friday, December 2nd.

Another notice w hich has the
same. heart-sinking effect as the
exam. list, has been posted for
some time down ai Kings. This
notice, of ‘Quiet Hours” reminds
us that the day of academic
reckoning is not far away, and it
keeps the halls of the Residence
as quiet as those of a sedate
mansion. This depressing notice
makes it advisable for even
the most jubilant member to
{urn to his studies.

ee aaa oe

Ove rheard by a telephone operator:
“Are you there?”’

“Who are you, please?”’

“Watt.”

‘What's your name?"

‘“My name is John Watt.”’

Hs what?”

Th Ih be around to see you this afternoon.’

“All right. Are you Jones?”’

No, I’m Knott.”’

“Will you tell me what yourname is
then?”

‘Will Knott.”’

“Why not?”

“*My name is Knott.”’

‘Not what?”’

B-r-r, clank, crash, etcetera, and 80
forth.

BIRKS=
Christmas

demands become

pleasures in solving them at

Birks.

This year prices
are in tune with
the times but the
freshness and
variety of our
display is enticing.
by?

Henry Birks & Sons

Limited
DIAMOND MERCHANTS
Halifax, N.S.

UPPER AND LOWER
SCHOOL

Household Science: Teacher's
. and Dietitian'’s Certificate.

Graduation Diploma.

Licentiate or Bachelor of Music, Dalhousie University.

MISS E. FLORENCE BLACKWOOD, B.A.,

Principal

MR. HARRY DEAN

Director of Conservator

NO VA SCOTIA TECHNICAL COLLEGE
ENGINEERING COURSES

' CIVIL ELECTRICAL, MECHANICAL AND MINING

To Dathousie Students with Engineering Diploma

pment, Instructing Staff with Industrial Experience

“Tue Fett i BOO per year,

Twenty-five scholarship of $75.00 each.

/ 5. Write or call for Calendar or advice.

F, H. SEXTON, Pres.

— "oe
i Die oe De Oe Oe Se aoa 0

A

.

OTN

cPEPaTD en angenert th: tee

*
BYX\

Winchester

CIGARETTES
i, 
ic Se Sie Se ine wie ine me See

SAS

BUTT LAR LP UC ESELT L(t s

e

The supreme quality of
Winchester Cigarettes
comes from years of
experience in making
fine cigarettes.

Winchester
CIGARETTES

Blended Keer /

Imperial T obacco Company
of Canada, Limited

Rohe ae etna eee Ina |

Get Your
Moneys Worth!

The very latest in cooking
devices are used here, giving you
higher food values in every dish.

THE
Green Lantern

409 Barrington St.

MacLeod, Balcom,

Limited

DRUGGIST

HALIFAX and BEDFORD

Individual
Attention--
Given to every
customer.. resulting in such niceties as shirts individually wrap
ped and protected.

Rates ten cents the
pound

Halifax Steam
Laundry

Phone L-2309 & L-2300

 
 

  
 
      

oo

won over Law

last year’s title. Atlast

has broken the Forres

   

-of the Dalhousie Inter,|faculty Softball League played
« | Thursday at the Studley gym.

        
    
    
 
 
   
    
  
   
    
  
  
   
   
  
 
 
 
   
 
     
  
    
  
    
  
   
    
  
     
    
 

 

| sa a . As a result of last night’s con| | tests, Medicine leads their secMedici sand Law|tion of the league with a com
 
 
     
 

fortable margin, while Arts and
Science are at the head of the
second section.

at Sete ee
played at the Studley Gymmnaicine won over Theo by a
to 4 score to take the lead
cn thet ee ae

with Arts

Medicine 15, Commerce 8.
This was one of the closest
games the Medical men have
engaged in so far this season.
Commerce, who were considered
a weak team, displayed their
mettle and battled with the

ith Arts for first place in their

| half; while Law defeated Com| merce, 16 to 7, in the final game,
giving Law second place in their

section. | .. league leaders for victory. A
‘ The game between Medicine beets fourth inning, in
and Theology brought together] hich the Medicos piled up 8

two.of the league’s strongest
teams. It was a battle royal
for the first three innings, Medicine leading, 2 to 1 at the end
of that inning. In the fourth
tl fell on the offerings of
Bruce and scored 5 runs, then
added four more in sixth to
assure them of victory. Davidson pitched the first six innings
for Medicine, with Young pitching the final. Bruce twirled
the whole game for Theologs.

Book of Bunc

(Continued).

runs proved the margin of victory. Harold Davidson pitched
a fine game for the winners,
while Crease and O’Brien divided the hurling burden for the
Commerce men.

Theology 13, Law 11.

Law gave the Theologians a
great battle before admitting defeat. Going into the final inning with the score 13 to 7 against
them, the Lawyers staged a
rally which netted them four
runs and left them still two
short of victory. The Theologians scored the majority of their
runs in the fourth inning, when
the Law team broke up and
let in nine runs before they were
able to retire the side. Gordon
pitched for the winners, holding
Law well in check. Roy McDonald pitched for the Lawyers.

 

 

Hear ye, men of law and let it
be known unto you.

4, Unto them who have possession of books and manuscripts I speak. Yea, unto them
who have the power to control
and the intent to control, even
the animus and the corpus.

5. Thelaw has gone forth unto ye, and ye shall not have

possession of books save that Arts and Science 34, Fresh
men 13.

 

ye do the following things.

2 _ PUZZLED COED. Freshmen i eraaa be a
; ave crs . weak team in the league. In

fe And, OM, fvakiiegned: Thursday’s game, however, they

were handicapped by the fact
that they were short two men
and hits which would otherwise
have been picked up went for
safeties:. Arts and Science went
on a rampage in the third inning
which netted them 18 runs
by far the highest single inning
score in the league this season.
They. also scored freely in all
the remaining innings. Ferguson pitching for the Artsmen held
the Freshmen under control.
Crease and Garten pitched for
Arts.

Yet some things tha tare going on
I just can’t understand.

I'm only five feet one or so,
And vastly underweight;

And yet the lad who took me here
Calls me his heavy date!

While in a corner over there,
A young man woos his dove;
She’s twice as big as I, and yet
She’s known as his light love!

 

Special
STUDENT SERVICE

DRY CLEANING

 

     
     
   

Sytem HALIFAX TAXI CO.
es, ee | t= B.7376
507-11 Robie St. 381 Barrington St

Telephone Lorne 2323

| Thursday to Saturday THIS -WEEK.

, Dec. 1-2-3 Friday and Saturday

iS - Radios most Popular Radio MAURICE ees
E “Love Me Tonight”
: | EDMUND ‘LOWE ee eee!

P | “p:

* A cepsinlahadcne lee Divorce In The

  
 
 
 
     
   

Mon-Tues-Wed.

a ee ta ei ees UACKIE CO
a , eae e E COO
___ }Bachelor’s Affairs LEWIS STONE.
Evenings
Matinee

—with—
ADOLPHE MENJOU
Chait oo a

20 & 30
Children 10

      
  
 

    
     

 
 

~
mi e .

7:
:
ya
MH

    

ee

= + .
2 ,
:
a
5 "

B
jo
=
*
, ;
*¥
a

 
  

ee.

ee $$

y  |Here and There in Sport

 

   
   
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
     
  
 
 
   

 

 

a

Commerce were forced to bow
to Law in the final game, 16 to 7.
The Lawyers had two big innings, the third and fourth when
they collected ten runs, mainly
on account of errors on the part
of the Commerce men. Roy
McDonald pitched a fine game
for the winners; for Commerce
Murray pitched the first four
innings and O’Brien the last
three.

Batting Spree.

Freshmen and Engineers both
went on batting sprees, but the
latter were a little stronger with
the willow and came out on top,
26 to 23. They opened with
a big rally of 9 runs in the first
inning and were never headed.
Christie and Purtill pitched for
Engineers; Crease and Brown
were on the mound for the
Freshmen. It was Freshmen’s
first game Of the season.

BASKETBALL LEAGUE

Rovers defeated Maroons 29-7
and the Quakers won from the
Cardinals 39 11 to retain their
two point margin over the Rovers for the house league Championship.

Rovers versus Marons.

Rovers led all the way in the
game against Maroons, Score
at half time was Rovers 12,
Maroons 8. In the second period the Rovers scored 16 points
to Maroons four. Doug Crease
and Fairstein played well for
the Rovers. Ernie Richardson
was high for Maroons with 5
points.
Lineup:—

Quakers versus Cardinals.

The Quakers, playing superior
basketball to their opponents,
easily defeated the Cardinals
39-11. There was very little
scoring in the first period which
ended Quakers 11, Cardinals 8.
In the second period, the Quakers opened up and scored 28
points to the opposition’s 3.
Borden Stoddard with 18 points
to his credit was high scorer for
the Quakers. Sullivan was responsible for 6 for the losers.

 

 

Engineers Win
Interfaculty
Championship

The Engineers, with a 3 to
nothing victory over Medicine,
won the interfaculty football
championship for the third consecutive season. The game was
fast throughout with both teams
playing and talking a pretty
fair game of football. The Engineers had the edge on their opponents in this first half. Lou
Christie receiving a pass from
the. picking quarter ran through
the Medical team for the first
and only score of the game.
The try was not converted.

In the second period, Medicine had the edge on their opponents and pressed hard for
an equalizer. Yale Brody made

a touchdown in this period but | P®

referee overruled claiming a forward pass. The teams fought
hard to hold their lead as well
as to score the equalizer. Sam
Fairstein and Jimmy Gray were
put off the field for talking back
to the referee, ‘Big Jim” MacDonald. Medicine lost their
big moment when they were
awarded a free kick in front of
the Engineer’s goal post. Krebs
attempted the kick but missed.

Fairstein, LeBrun, and Bordy
were the big guns for the Medical team, while Christie shone
for Engineers,

 
   
  
   
    
    
  
  

Club Meets

_—_-——— ee

Mr. Layton Ferguson was
chairman for the evening at the
regular meeting of the “Effective Speaking and Parliamentary Club” last Wednesday. The
constitution and Bye-laws were
then introduced by Mr. Potter
Oyler, several amendments were
made,

Professor Horace Reid devoted the rest of the evening to
discussion on “the general ends
ofas he
Mr. John Fisher was elected
as chairman for the next meeting which will take place in
January, 1933.

Pine Hill Notes.

The Pine Hill Pepper Box,
the Residence Scandal | sheet,
made its first appearance of this
season. The oldest imhabitant
says it is the biggest and best
for many a long winter.

 

We always knew some of the
residents were pretty infantile,
but who owned the socks that
were pinned to the letter box
Friday night? They looked like
Murray MacMillan’s to us.

 

We have harboured, at some
time or other, pretty nearly
every species of the human
variety from bootleggers to abbots, but this year we are
singularly honored in entertaining an expectant bridegroom.
We give Roland Hopkins the
big hand and hope the missus is
keeping well.

Among our recent visitois
were our distinguished fellow
citizens Neil Ferguson and Ken
Cougle. Neil tells us he’s entertaining in a big way and
needs a few more hands for
bridge. We wonder why Ken
has that worried look.

Ne CEU'S,

(Continued from page 1,

The list of South African
students follows. Any Canadian student wishing to write
to one or more on the list is
invited to do so, and may state
in his or her opening letter that
the exchange was arranged by
the South African Union and
the N.F.C.U.S.—

Miss A. Loubser, Ladies’
Hostel, Prospect Street, Hatfield,
Pretoria, wishes to correspond
with a woman in English. Specially interested in music, reading
and travel.

“Mr. A. J. A. Roux, 130 Jorissen Street, Clifton, Johannesburg, wishes to correspond with
a man in German or English.
Specially interested in engineering.

“Mr. F..Zwarenstein, 119 Fordon Road, Judith’s Pearl, Johannesburg, wishes to correspond
with either a man or a woman
in English. Specially interested
in politics, modern literature and
sport.

“Mr. J. Lombard, Bunton,
Brooklyn, Pretoria, wishes to
correspond with a woman in
English. Specially interested in
social work, mechanics and carntry.

“Miss J. Chester, University
of Witwatersrand, Johannesburg
wishes to correspond with a
young man in English. Specially interested in books and the
“art of the cinema.”

ae

The regular student ‘‘Hour
of Song’”’ will be held next
Sunday evening in St. John’s
Church Hall at 8.30. All students are cordially invited to
attend these meetings held
under the auspices of the
Student Christian Movement
in Dalhousie. ‘

 

** Biggest and Best Dance of the Year’’

JANUARY

SannnEEEneeed =

 

18th, 1933

a

 

 

 

—

| Effective nea g| PER Se ee ES See ee ee ee

SIMPSONS

Offer a select range
Christmas Shoppers.

For Men

Adjustable Student Lamps.
Warm Sport Sweaters.
Yardley’s Lavender Sets.
Leather Brief Cases.
Walnut Smoker Stands.
Initialled Belts.

Forsythe Pyjamas.
Eversharp Pencils.
Fountain Pens.

Useful Bill Folds.

Linen Handkerchiefs.
Cosy Slippers.

Deerskin & Pigskin Gloves.
New Colorful Scarves.
Dressing Sets in Case.
Safety Razor Sets.

Plain and Fancy Socks.
Lovely Silk Ties.

V
V
V
i
V
ny
uf
v
i
i
i
i
i
i
i
V

tastes will complete their lists economically,
quickly and satisfactorily if they do all their
gift buying from Simpsons.

Christmas Gifts

 

December 1st, 1932 |

 

of exquisite gifts for
Those with particular)

 

For Women

Colorful Lounging Robes.
Full-fashioned Silk Hose.
‘*Ascot’’ and Square Scarves
Boudoir Slippers.

Dainty Handkerchiefs.
Exquisite Lingerie.
Toiletries and Compacts.
**Lane’’ Cedar Chests.
Boudoir Lamps.

Real Leather Handbags.
Walnut Tea Wagons.
**Gruen’’ Wrist Watches.
Novelty-handled Umbrellas.
Electric Clocks.

Leather Jackets.

Linen Bridge Sets.

Real Madeira Linen.

Novelty Weave Sweaters.

V
y
i
i
V
au
ny
i
u
i
f
‘
i
i
i
i

Per eeecmasmase mT

A Preview of
Boxing at Dal

With Tech busy completing 3

arrangements for the Maritime
Intercollegiate Boxing Championships the thoughts of the
Dalhousie fans turn to perusal
of their team’s chance. Not
since the first year of the Championships have Dal won the
Phinney Shield. With ‘Big Jim’
McLeod, D'. Murray’, H. Magonet, J. Glorioso, Arabi, Dubilier
and several other good boxers
in college the chances of the
Phinney Shield coming to Dal
are exceedingly good.

With St. F. X. out to win
permanent possession. of the
Shield and men assured from

Dal and Tech, with possibilities
that the other Maritime Colleges
will have entrants, the fans
are assured of action.

Since the championships are
to be held in. Halifax, under
Tech's auspices, early in the new
year, it is time to start training
now. The fact that they are in
Halifax relieves Dal of the cogt of
the trip to Antigonish which
means that Dal will be able to
have entrants in all classes.

FOR SALE

Two Tuxedos, almost
new
Sizes 36 and 37

Reasonably priced
Phone L.7783

 
       
       
   

  

Wed. Thur. Fri. Nov. 30. Dec. 1-2:

‘d on A Match’

Joan Blondell, Warren William
Ann Dvorak, Bette Davis fF

Sat. Mon. Tues. Dec. 3,5,6,

JOE E. BROWN

Ginger Rogers

“You Said a Mouthful’

| ENGINEERS-COMMERCE DANCE - NOVA SCOTIAN HOTEL |

Refreshments in Main Dining Room |

eee

 

Frosh Bow to
Engineers 31-9

Engineers defeated Freshmen
-9 in a regular scheduled
the Dalhousie imtersoftball league played
Tuesday, Nov. 28, at the Studley gymnasium. Result of the
game left Engineers in second
place in their section of the
league, with the crucial game
to be played on Thursday against Arts and Science. A win
for Engineers will entitle them
to play-off with Arts for first
place.

2)
game of

faculty

A disastrous first inning which
gave the Engineers 11 runs, accounted for the downfall of the |
Freshies; after that inning they |
held their opponents in check |
fairly well, but they were unable |
to make up the large lead.

Christie and Sergeant were
the battery for Engineers while
John Brown and Thurlow served
them up for the losers.

 

 
   
   
     
     
   
   
   
   
   
     
   
   
   
   
   
       
   

Appropriateness

 

That regard for the fitness
of things—characterises all
our productions for general
wear.

Whether you wish to be
clothed for business purposes,
sport, or for ceremony, all the
garments we make are exactly
what they should be.

The material we use, the
workmen we employ, the experience we have, are all unexcelled, and we would welcome your visit or enquiries.

Our prices need not deter
you—they are as moderate as
quality will allow

ROBT. STANFORD

LIMITED
158 Hollis St. Halifax, N.S.

  

 

:
:
:

;
/

Se
