 
   
 

=

   
  

  

to 5

 
    

  

II.

a

    
 
 
  
 
  
  
   

a
he
Egbert Defends
— Attack on Girls |
i, >. p a
ee Letter to Forum
Prue Mr. Editor: Saya Na
--- Tadmire “Dalhousie Girl,”’ for
ee her weak and uncomprehensive
ce reply, because she, in spite of
her. errors of interpretation,
ath showed herself to be possessed
ae of something which so few girls
of today have, an admirable}.
_._~ character, for has she not taken
__ the part of her kind, in a simple
tink | pee: straight-forward manner?
_ -The real culprit, who assum--  es_herself to be the dream
and aspiration of every male
F student, cringed behind this fortress, neither defending herself
nor in all fairness to herself and Pe raiey
em 44 irls admitting her mis- MR. D. SH .
dares ce eee r few | Secretary of M. P. B. A.A. U. of C.
hae ae: take. If it WEre not ~ Sper: who gave an illustrated lecture
py like “Dalhousie Girl, Egbert to Dal students on the
ke would be a pronounced misogy- Olympic Games
nist, but in this child of nature’
~ swe have truly a woman, a woman . c
ae 1 Budding Barristers
ees Admiring her stand, as I do,
ne o *
oe _ must not, however, allow her to Ball Is Success
nape

misrepresent my _ statements.

ne fault she has in common

with the rest of her genus, is the

ability to twist and intercept

things, until they suit the egostical trai

\
aon

a
i

Aes
an

a ft
en ty
Mos
oa "4
Lips “ahs ss

n of thought. Tak; clause for clause |

i?

ee) "At the recent law dance,
_ there were thirty-two law stu_ ‘dents,—those who had to pay
only a quarter more; the other
aaa - hundred and twenty or so had

    
 
  
   

apes! v, ‘

 

~

to pay the dollar and a quarter
extra. +So we can see that only
about one-fifth of those attend| ing were affected.
~ Jj. As to cigarettes, I merely
said that the extra dollar and a
quarter would be a week’s smoking, if we took it that way;
nothing whatsoever as to smoking in the gym or the hotel was
mentioned.
III. Sure, just as I said,
none of the girls would want to
take a taxi, as walking is just
the thing. My my, if the Hall
| ‘girls cannot walk two hundred
yards the equalization of woman
is over. The women are asserting their rights, striving, almost
breaking their necks to keep up
with the men. Even in sport
they have their ice hockey,
their track, etc. Why Egbert
would not be surprised to see
them out for football soon.
But walking oh dear no, they
gladly admit their inferiority.
What a difference an evening
dress can make |
- » +4WV. This is what EgLert real4 izes—that the rooms are $5.00,
and that every law made yet
has been broken, and in nine
eases out of ten, a woman has
been the cause of it!
© V. Now! now! I’m not a
Cte modiste, for I was just saying
that along with the other ex penses, (at any dance) you would
_ not have to figure in the cost of
__ pressing, hair-cut, etc., as the
laundries do a good job free.

\>

f

~ a
ao

a
=~ i

   
      
     
        
    
 
 
  
  
   

et

ee . lita

= m
: ‘i


Pu & —. a 7 -,
he Continued on page 4 col. 2.

__
ell

7

: id a :
a
es

er it
4
d
im

  

7"
+

    

~~

Y IN WEEK END RUGGER TILTS GOES

  

GLEE CLUB STAGES FINEST

 

. Official Student Publication at D

a a ——

ne a at it a ge

— ee oS eee : Tere *
a "pe ‘ i = i a7 e
Ree ee ee a Te °
a ‘ —, 74 ? 5
fa Be _— are «jl ;
tig t

TO

  

HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA, NOVEMBER 16th, 1932.

ce et re tt ate — ya

CALEDONIA AND U. N. B.

nzette

alhousie University

No. 7

 

PERFORMANCE IN YEARS

Tigers Lose Well Fought Game with Caledonia|Freshman Class Presentation

 

On Wednesday, Nov. 9th,
1932, the Nova Scotian Hotel
was the gay scene of the Budding Barristers’ Ball. It came
up to all expectations based on
the former reputation of the
Law Students to ‘‘throw a party”
It was a great dance, as all
Law Dances are. Everyone enjoyed themselves from all appearances, even the ‘“‘budding
barristers.” Supper was served
in the main dining room of the
Hotel which was a wonderful
improvement over the 1ush and
grab of former years.

The Hagarty Orchestra supplied excellent music, and plenty
of it. And what music!! All
the latest hits and old favorites.

The chaperones for the evening were: Dean and Mrs. S.
E. Smith, Prof. and Mrs. H. E.
Read, Prof: and Mrs. V. C.
MacDonald, Prof, and Mrs. J.
T. MacQuarrie, Mr. and Mrs.
T. W. Murphy.

The success of the dance is
due to the capable Dance Committee, consisting of Jerry Coleman, Bill Jost and Charlie Miller

 

French Cercle

Will Meet Nov 17

The ‘Cercle’ will hold a
meeting at Shirreff Hall at 8.15
p. m. on Thursday, November
17th. All students are cordially
invited. The program for the
meecing is as follows:

“La Madelon”’
Discours: “France and Italy”
—Prof. Gautheron.
Recitation. ........... Miss H. Belyea
Theatre: ““L’Avare’’_...J. Forster,
U. Belliveau.

Dialogue. .__........ J. Berenger, B.
Adams.

The evening’s ertertainment
will be followed by adance. Refreshments will be served.

 

.|he has observed cheating. A favourite query at this point is,

Tanton Breaks
Arm in First

Period

Score 14-0

Outclassed in everything but
fighting spirit Dalhousie lost a
14-0 decision game to one of
the finest teams Caledonia has
ever produced. This defeat
gives Caledonia the privilege
of playing the University ot
New Brunswick in the McCurdy
Cup finals, emblematic of the
Maritime ‘litle.

While the visiting collegians
were a much heavier team,
noticeable when the teams lined
up, the speed and trickery of
the Caledonians soon had the
Collegians at a disadvantage.
A further disadvantage was added to the Collegians task when
Tanton, one of the best of Dals
forwards had his arm broken
after ten minutes of play. Continuing to play, in great pain,
until half time it was discovered
that Tanton had a complete
fracture of the arm between the
wrist and elbow. The arm was
fixed and Tanton was removed
from the game.

Despite a stubborn defence
the Caledonians scored twice in} Ray Smith was the referee
the first period when Johnny|and did a good job of the game.

 

ee
Oe

 

DR. RONALD HAYES
ing the Freshman Glee Club
Show on Monday evening.

 

Vey and “Coot McLean each
madeatry. Score 6-0.

In the second period the weakened Collegians were no match
for the Caledonians who added
8 more points as Vey and Art
McDonald scored and Nicholson made the convert. Score

14-0.

 

The Honour System At Dalhousie

For over forty years now, written work and examinations at
several of the great American umiversities have been conducted
under what is known as the honour system.

An examination taking place under its rules is conducted
without the surveillance of professors or proctors; students may
enter or leave the classroom at will, write their papers in the places
most convenient for them, and are free at all times to do as they
will. When a student has finished writing the examination, he
simply signs the honour statement, giving his word as a gentleman
that he has neither given nor received aid in that examinaltion.

A professor is rarely in the room during the course of a quiz;
students converse fireely with one another, get up and leave the
room, if they wish, for a cigarette or a cup of coffee. With the
advent of Spring and warmer weather many of the papers are
written out of doors, on the lawns. }

The advantages of this method are not many, but great.
The tension complementary to an examination is practically eliminated; there is a feeling of mutual cooperation between professor
and pupil; it builds up the self-respect of the student by relying
entirely upon his word; and destroys the feeling of suspicion and
distrust prevalent at this time.

There is one disadvantage—one that is always put forth, i. e.,
it makes cribbing incredibly easy. To answer this, digression is
necessary. Using random figures, not proven statistics, let us say
that fifty per cent of the students are eminently upright, and under
no condition would they cheat. The other fifty per cent is shady.
given to cribbing. But of this latter half, which now cheats freely
and conscience-free under the near-sighted eye of the professorwardens, what percentage would combine cheating with the damnation of their word?

Moreover, under the covenant of the honour system, each student is pledged to report (in secrecy) the name of any pupil whom

 

‘Does any student ever tell on another?” The answer is ‘‘yes’’.
eh it might be added that rarely indeed is a student forced to do
this.

Whether or not the honour system would be acceptable to
the faculty and undergraduates of Dalhousie is not known, but
it would be interesting to have a few opinions expressed via the
“Forum.” Adoption of this sytem would be a radical and broadminded step, and could be accomplished only with the unanimous

approval and whole-hearted cooperation of students and professors
alike.

THE MED. DANCE - - - NOVA SCOTIAN HOTEL
4 FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 18th.

DON MURRAY and HIS ORCHESTRA

 

who had a large part part in direct
Delights Capacity Audience

Dalhousians Pay |C. D. Shipley Gives
Tribute To War |Illustrated Lecture
Heroes At Service

Roll Honor is Read

On Monday night in the
Gymnasium, the Freshman Class
of ’36 presented a miniature

musical and dramatic review.
Last Thursday, Dalhousians| The first scene, ‘“How’dy” showgathered in the gymnasium tO] ed originality and was a ‘“‘hello”’
pay tribute to the hallowed] from the class of ’36.
memory of their glorious dead,}| The second act wasa pleasing
who made the supreme sacrifice} chorus and routine dance by a
during the World War, 1914-18.| number of Freshmen and FreshPresident Carleton Sianley con-|ettes. Next came a clever reducted the memorial service.| presentation of a radio proA short address was given by|gramme as offered by the well
Dr. Archibald MacMechan. In|known ‘Street Singer’? interthe course of his remarks he|preted by Gerry Naugler, a
stated that of the six hundred|song and dance by Pat MacDalhousians who served in the] Donald as Cab Calloway, and
World War, one out of every|a piano solo by Gerry Naugler.
ten gave up his life. Col. W. E.| Next came a _ short farce,
Thompson, honorary secretary|‘‘Atlanta in Wimbledon,’ in
of the Board of Governors, read| which the leading parts were
the roll of honor. taken. by Charlotte [Lyle and
George Murphy, ably supported
by Pat MacDonald, Neil Higgins, H. Goode, A. Fraser and
n Don Forbes,

Following this a number of
Freshettes as mannequins staged a fashion show displaying the
latest styles in afternoon and

   
 
 
 

  
   
   
  
  
   
  
  
  
     
  
    

 

University Book
Club Now Ope
To Dal Students

_In his address to the University, the President made refer- re ne

ence to a Book Club that was aS er ene Bao
being established ‘as a means of conclusion with a_ brief skit
providing new books not provid- entitled “His First Client” stared by Departmental Purchases] ‘8 Bill Scott, Allan Duffus
for the Library: and Connie Jost.

The first orders of books have AAS | tes ae Mae
arrived and books will be issued] "? ™ ae a short period o dancto" members. after “Wed: this bok Previous to the opening
Gade of the Glee Club programme

The < tepulec Mr. Shipley, the Secretary of

: fs hanes, | ae M.P.B.A.A.U. of C. gave a
five dollars. Special subscrip-|;_: <8
Goi. for. atiderits, giving all brief talk on the Olympic Games
Ghivileses' “at “tHe | Club. Fares and also showed some films
Dollars. taken at the games held in Los

Subscriptions will be received Angeles.
by Professor Bennett, Studley,
or Dr. Hayes, Forrest Building.

C. O. T. C. Notes

There was a fair attendance
at “A” Company’s parade last} The Dawson Club held their
Wednesday night, and several] regular meeting in Room 51
recruits were signed on. Col./at lecture hour on Monday.
Read has offered a prize to the] Mr. Claude Howse presided,
platoon having the best atter-| Professor Douglas was also presdance during the year. This|ent.
should be an incen‘ive to al! If sufficient cars can be obbetter showing on parade: Can-| tained, the club decided to go to
didates for A’ aad B” cerii-|Governors Lake on Saturday,
ficates were given some diill|19th. :
instruction as well as the regular! On Friday 18th, at 7 p. m., the
lectures. members are invited to go to the

The Sunday morning tactical}home of Professor and Mrs.
exercises will doubtless prove| Douglas at Bedford.
to be an interesting feature of Invitations were also received
the programme; but it is to be|from Mr. Thomas Williams to
regretted that so few turned out] visit the Gold Mines at MooselastSunday. Everyoneoutnext|head, and from Mr. W. M.
time—they are well worth going| Webster. These invitations have
to, in fact it is impossible to pass|not been accepted as yet. It
your examinations for “‘A’’ or|was suggested by Professor
“B" certificates without having| Douglas to accept Mr. Webster s
aitended. . invitation and to hold the meet
Our aim is to make a bigger|ing sometime in March, when
and beiter C. O. T. C.—won't| papers would be read by lady
you help by turning out tonight? | students.

subscription is

 

Dawson Club

Holds Regular
Meeting

 

Single $2.00

 
fe eee eT.

ne ay

 

Russian vs Canadian Timber.

  
    

 

   
 
   
  
 
    
  
 

 

Examinations.

 

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

ae — =r : Manners.
os , | EDITORIAL STAFF. 245; Whither Europe?
ee ss editor. wap . Managing Editor, ee =;
wid be ar SPRY EDWARD B. HIGGINS, B. A. An Archaeological Discovery. Snitchers.
Seah ces saree Lizaeeri MARCH |
ae 7 E :
ai | FRANK GOUDGE -|Examinations.

SaeBis eR ON BORGNOU Russian vs Canadian Timber.) With only a few weeks left
ex AEs eae oe English Ministers are having a| before we are plunged into the
is ete NEWS STAFF. ‘ ere hard time a HS of Mid-year Examinations we take

News Editor. omen's News Eduor.)nunciation of the Russian trade! pause for a brief thought on the

11 ¢ a iia LL} : ; ; ;
wine <0 ae A ea agreements. It seems quite| examination system. The long
De Se ore tice’ clear that, for the purposes of| written exams such as held at
rae -- Robert Batt Merle Purtill hi British exporting industries,| yniversities are sometimes the
ap Robert Dorman ae Dronteoreye Canadian lumber is inferior to] cayse of nervous break-downs
OA? , i th MeClashen toe Micon. European. = Mr. Chamber lain| and strains with the result that
oe . , Dorothy Gray ee out ee pn fel re some undergraduates are terrifite taken im order to saleguard) ed at the very word ‘“‘examinaie. Sports Editor Co-ed Sports. the exports. of timber from Can-|tions.” Some of the world’s
rok RRAYL M. JOST. : se ae es ‘ Vs
sig MURRAY LLOy aoe 6) ada to this country from com-| greatest educationalists have
rise Bsractate Associate ee under ome cari condemned the examination sysPeet : dard Dorothy Vernon rom, iNussia. Owever, thlS!tem but maintain that it should
p eee ery Stoddar BUSINESS STAFF. Boe does not satisfy those who, - halsneet Mimi come better
Dae tees Maeater sst. Business Manager admitting his sincerity, say that] 4 an be developed. Just
i ; : ; CHARLES CLARKE, B. A. re ; Sys em Can pe eve opec ‘ | UST
be Sea See ON B. 3134. this is not reason enough to force about this time of the year most
~ M. J. Bezanson es . ta a Ree university students are wishing

Dave Allen , arlie Lorway | which is neither wanted nor o

Proof Editor. high enough quality. Mr. Bald-| with a new system.

     
  
   
  
  
   
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
   
    
 
  
 
 
   
  

ERIC D. MURRAY
George H. Murphy

Editorial office B. 5676

 

 

 

' COMPULSORY PHYSICAL TRAINING.

--_-—-* Dalhousie students are very fortunate in that they have the
_. opportunity to use the finest gymnasium this side of Montreal.
_ Every facility has been included in this modern building, and the
Board of Governors have spared no expense to equip it completely.
But the fact remains that a sufficient number of students do not
make use of it. The question immediately arises—how can this
be remedied? on
a Compulsory physical training for the first two years at least
has been mooted many times at Dalhousie; but in the past adequate
facilities have not been available. The time has now come when
. a systematic method of exercise by every undergraduate is possible
and steps should be taken at once to install such a plan at Dalhousie.
Sa The advantages of such a system are self-evident. All average
individuals wishing to have healthy, well-balanced personalities
__ require an equal education of mind and muscle. A one-sided
-__ education—that of mere book knowledge alone—soon becomes
-__-yaluéless without the necessary physical complement. An all
mee pte ree z :
----—_—s round developed body is essential; and except for those who are
athletes the “ordinary undergraduate’s exercise is largely confined
yrations on the dance floor, or the daily sprint to the nine

Rs

This is a situation which should not exist, and

portion of the trade.

explanation.

deed far from friendly.

Whither Europe?

  

cuity and grimness. Whi

ediate action of remedy. | 7

xe actual details of the plan can be worked out in such a

manner as to afford each student at least two hours per week of
organized physical activity; a full time instructor is already on the

‘campus. Thus the possibility of compulsory physical training

article, the answer— On preseni

 
     
  
 
  
   
   
   
  
  
  
   
   
  
   
   
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
   
  
  
    
  
    
  
 
  
  
  
    
  
    
  
  
 

ats

Treaty is: revised by peaceful
means and in time. Disarmament by itself would not avert
war. The key-word of peace is
Revision and Revision by consent. The Versailles Treaty
contained two antagonistic parts,
one good and one bad. One
part established the League of
Nations; the other part aimed
ai the dismemberment and weakening of the Reich fpr good.
Without Revision of the eastern
frontiers of Germany as drawn
by the Machiavellian dictates of
her conquerors, the worst part
of the Treaty is bound to destroy
ihe better part which established
the League. As Mr. Garvin
points out these are fearful
truths, but someone must speak
them.

The Students at the University of Toronto have recently
Tce stated in no uncertain terms their wishes in regard to the quality
_ __ of material to be published in their daily paper; and in a symposium
of student opinion expressed the desire for the publication of
doubtful humor. ; aa
A student newspaper should confine itself to University news
on a level with the intelligence of its readers, and it should avoid,
e at all costs, the publication of too much material of a high ince. tellectual standard. A college paper is by no means an uplifting
organization or a Sunday School handbill but an organ for the
. expression of student opinion; and if student opinion leans more or
fe less towards “doubtful humor,” there should be no complaint
- against the publication of a certain amount of it. Evidently
college students depend on other sources for their uplift and culture
and, perish the thought, we must conclude that they do not wish
to be elevated and etherealized.

Dalhousie is as yet untroubled with any such problems and
while it is to be admitted that a certain brand of humor is necessary
in any college publication, we cannot see the necessity of including
any jokes of doubtful character or vintage.

POLITICS AND INTERFERENCE.

In the last issue of the Gazette we commented on the disgraceful conditions prevailing in the politics and athletics at Dalhousie.
We have not received any criticism in regard to this comment, so we
presume that there is some foundation for our convictions. Neither
the elected representatives of the students nor the students themselves Rave made any efforts to refute the statements of the Gazette.
; Therefore we feel justified in saying that they agree with us.

There must be something vitally wrong when such a condition
prevails in a university with the record and standing which Dalhousie holds. We believe that the trouble rests with the students

themselves. They have degenerated into a mob of uninterested
-. men and women. They have now arrived at the stage where they
do not consider the welfare of the university which is educating
them, but only their own comfort and happiness. They care not
whether the University is famous for its graduates, or the ability
of its debaters, or the prowess of its athletic representatives.
They do not mind if the public criticizes unjustly the actions of the
students. The main thought in the mind of most undergraduates
is to enjoy themselves, pass a few stupid examinations in subjects
they are not interested in, and finally to graduate with a degree of
some sort.
We feel that the student governing body should make some
__ efforts to arouse interest in the students and take steps to remedy
this deplorable situation. It is not only a disgrace to the Uni__ versity but also to the Council which is directly responsible for
the students. We venture to say that the reason the Council
__ does not do this is because they are not willing to risk their own
__ popularity for the sake of Dalhousie.
~~ For some years now, the affairs of the students have been
- inasorry mess. At this stage in the game there are outside groups
_ taking a far too active hand in student politics. Students outside

‘these groups are disregarded, and ability has been replaced by

An Archaeological Discovery.

In the opering lines of the
sixth book of Virgil’s Aeneid, the
fleet have glided into Euboean
Cumea’s shore, good Aeneas
‘makes for the hill-top, where
alofi sits en‘broned Apollo, and
a cavern vasi, the far lone
haunt of the ‘dread Sibyl... i
This grotto of the Cumaean
Sibyl has been discovered near
Naples, by Professor Mauiri.
The description in the Aeneid
tallies so closely, with the actual
grotto discovered that competent critics feel certain that
Vergil had seen it. It thus appears that the ancient myths
are not so unhistorical as we
usually assume them to be. In
any event, this discovery, one
of the most dramatic of modern
archaeology, will be of intense
interest to those interested in
the ancient classics.

————_.>--o____————
She: What would you do if I should

cry?
He: I’d hang out a sign, ‘Wet
Paint.”

 

a ‘

Prof: ‘Wake that fellow up next to
you, will you?”’

  

ularity. Apparently the students will not do anything them- Student: “Aw, do it yourself, you
a We ask the Students’ Council to act. put him to sleep.” ae
cress eS , oes

“ac3

me? i,

ta ; we ae

     

_
a

ml
ee

m A 9 s f ae, ~_ : bs > s ie : f ‘ 7 7 i. ) eke t4 he uh 4 7 ‘i , a+ * iN a
a ie <a / i ne \ cme es? a ae ai "?. , * iy i, - ‘ Wt 4
a — monensin 2 : se ten a ile ae — — _ - ee —— , = _——_— ———_ _— ~~ 35. >

4
5
J

win appeared to be under an
economic illusion, arguing that
because England has not a visible favorable balance of trade
with Russia, it is therefore only
necessary to have a better proMr.
Thomas probably gave the best
i He said that the
denunciation need not interfere
with common sense agreements,
but that it was the outcome of
the Ottawa agreements that the
preferences there entered into
should not be frustrated by the
State action of other countries.
The Moscow comments are in
The London Observer has recently published an article written by that eminent English
journalist, J. L. Garvin, in which
the future of peace in Europe is
analyzed with singular perspither
Europe—” is the heading of the

lines the peace of Europe is
almost sure to perish in another
catastrophe before the end of

at least for freshmen and sophomores seems to commend itself] another half-decade.’’ Another
*- to the attention of the authorities. . European War cannot be pre| DOUBTFUL HUMOR. vented unless the Versailles

   
 
 
   
  
   
 
 
    
 
  
 
   
   
  
 
   
 
 

 

 

Manners.

been gradually declining so that
at the present time we might
even say they are entirely lacking. The old courtesy of touching the hat to a lady has been
almost forgotten. Noone would
think of holding a door open for
a girl. Why should they? The
girls are just as capable of doing
so asthey are. These litile acts
of politeness are not in the list
of habits of the average Dalhousian. Even members of the
faculty receive no better treatment or respect from some of the
men who come to this University to ‘learn how to live.”
The great need, as we see it, isa
department giving lectures in
Etiquette 1, 2, 3 and 4. Then
sophomores would be eligible for
advanced classes such ais Chivalry 8 and Decency 7, 9 and 11.

—

 

Snitchers.

Snitchers are those people who
steal things from other people’s

lockers in the gymnasium.
Snitchers are the kind of people
who give the College a bad name.
There ought to be a law against
Snitchers. Unsuspecting people
pay for a locker and hope: that
it will be a safe place to leave
their gymnasium kit, but they
are soon disillusioned. Ina few
days someone walks away with
their one and oaly towel. By
the end of the second week one
is lucky if one still has a sweater
and a pair of sneakers.

Yet, there must be something
admirable about these Snitchers.
They are the wild gay highwaymen of the present day. They
smile ard laugh twe suppose;
and then when you are not
looking they get away with your
shorts. Nice fellows! One
young pirate has developed his
racket so thoroughly that he
must have the complete list of
figures of all the lockers, for he
is exceptionally careful to open
the lockers with the besi sweaters
and the newest shoes. This is
the sort of chap we need around
Dalhousie. Nice clean brotherly
sori of fellow who pats you on
the back and then steals your
hat. Nice fellows, these Snitchers.

—a a ¢ Set

Ad Astra}

——a er

A view of international politics,
different from that usually seen, is
presented in ‘‘Six Hours to Live,’’ the
feature which starts today at the
Capitol Theatre. It shows stronger
nations imposing their will, by force
of might, although it may mean the
absolute ruination of smaller countries.

Warner Baxter is cast in the role of
representative of a tiny republic, who
batties vaiiantly against intrigues and
plots to save his fatherland from utter
ruin. ;

There is a strong romantic strain
running through the story centering
about.the struggle between Baxter and
John Boles for the love of the beautiful
Miriam Jordon, the new Englishactress,
This is her first picture, and she is
launched auspiciously in the feminine
lead.

George Marion, Beryl Mercer and
Irene Ware, are other prominent playersin important character parts. William Dieterle is the director. |

" . ——— Se
——— = = ——— ; ~
‘ > t =

   

that someone would hurry up| must go to the appointed Uni
Manners at Dalhousie have|©°StS t© students will be at a

   
 
  
   
 
   
  
 
 
  

George Arliss is starring in ‘“A Success.
ful Calamity.”
ipancier, pretends to his family that
1¢ 1s completely bankrupt in order to!
curb

 

af ee —

November 16th, 1932—

ee

TIT BITS

The first daily mewspaper, it is
found, was published in China jin
713 D. Two days later ‘ Old
Subscriber” wrote in telling the editor
how to run the sheet.—Richmond
Times-Dispatch.

 

  

Scanning Our
Contemporaries.

 

 

  

In order to eradicate repetition of faculties as well as to
reduce student fees, the Universities of the Prairie Provinces are

 

A writer says that marriage does not
prevent a woman public speaker from
pursuing her career. On the contrary,
it means that she has provided herself
with a permanent audience.—The Humorist.

considering an amalgamation.
The proposal was made by
Premier Browlee of the Province
of Alberta, and has met with
considerable approval. The
scheme has not yet been
thoroughly discussed by the
three University heads, as the
President of the University of
Manitoba is now very much
occupied with an investigation
into the financial status of the
college. If a satisfactory arrangement can be reached by
the three Universities, the plan
will no doubt mean a great sav
In the difficult days through which
we, aS a people, are passing, we must
not make the mistake of thinking
that we shall find recovery and stability
by clever economic dodges alone.—
Glen Frank.

Doctor in Chicago says it was nonsense for President Hoover to shake
hands with 3,000 people. Perhaps he
is right, but it’s a very handy way to
create goodwill around election time.—
Stratford Beacon- Herald.

 

. es: Z A : There were 18,000,000 one ¢
isi for the students. The idea pieces made at the Ottawa mint this
is as follows:—‘‘That the pro- year. That's hardly two each for

every man, woman and child in the
dominion. We must look elsewhere
for relief.—Stratford Beacon- Herald.

vince having the most adequate
resources for a certain faculty
undertake to specialize along
these lines. All students who
wish to specialize in this work,

 

Talk is cheap. That’s why barbers
give it with a haircut.—Detroit News.
a ele mae seeeenenetne
versity and finish up, there.
Due to the fact that there will
be no repetition of faculties the

social life of his wife, daughter and son.
Mr. Arliss saves a rather weak story.

In “‘Movie Crazy’’ which follows on
Friday and Saturday, we renew acquaintances with Harold Lloyd as the
bespectacled, movie-struck youth who
goes to Hollywood on a wild goosechase, and gets himself into all sorts of
trouble. Very funny in parts:

On Monday and Tuesday at the
same theatre Marion Nixon and Ralph
Bellamy willbe starred in ‘‘Rebecca of
Sunnybrook Farm,*’ the film version
being based on the well-known book of
the same title.

minimum. For example: Alberta owing to its rich mineral
deposits might be appointed to
specialize in mining, or perhaps
Manitoba in business training
in view of the large commercial
center at Winnipeg. However
all arguments pro and con will
have to be thrashed out, in order
to test the feasibility of the
proposal.

 

Thursday, Friday and Saturday at
the Orpheus, Jack Oakie, Sidney Fox,

 

aes Aline MacMahon, Louise Fazenda,

AD AST and Zasu Pitts will be seen in what is
RA reputed to be one of the greatest film
Continued satires to date. The picture, generally

faithful to the play and its stage
protbtype, sticks a pin in Hollywood,
watches its chagrins, its discomfitures
and its wriggles witha sum total result
vastly amusing. All the foibles of
Hollywood as it is, and as it may have
been read about are magnified, satirized
oe poked fun at until there isn’t much
eft. .

On Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday, the Orpheus Theatre will present
‘“‘That’s My Boy,” with a cast headed
by Richard Cromwell, Dorot hy Jordon,
and Mae Marsh. The story deals with
the trials and tribulations of a national
football hero when collegiate commercialism threatens to bring him disgrace. The outstanding feature of the
picture is the authentic football scenes
in which appear a number of All
American football heroes.

An added attraction will be the first
of a series of comedies produced by the
Lambs Gambols. This is a two reel
music comedy, with music by Victor
Herbert and starring Lois’ Moran,
Victor Moore and William Gaxton,
o{stars of the present Pulitzer Prize
and hectic] production ‘“‘Of Thee I Sing.”’

__ Starting Saturday at the same
[heatre will be shown for the first
time at popular prices, Vicki. Baum’s
“Grand Hotel,” with what is possibly
the greatest constellation of stars ever
to appear in one picture. As in the
stage production, the locale is confined
to a large Berlin Hotel, and in this
respect the film is unique, as the entire
gamut of tragedy, crime, love, pathos,
and comedy takes place within its
beletial lobby, and luxurious rooms.
t is rather remarkable too, that although Greta Garbo, John and Lionel
Barrymore, Joan Crawford, and Wallace Beery are stars in their own rights,
and accustomed to an undivided spotlight, they seem to work in wholehearted co-operation. Lionel Barrymore steals the picture. Magnificently directed by Edmund Goulding,

loday and tomorrow at the Garrick,


Mr. Arliss, a wealthv

the extravagance

ii tee SNS os ie tule Dea Mike evide yetekT |

HOW About A New Overcoat ?

Something with a Lot of Pep and Swank.

Our Coats are styled
right and priced well
within the reach of
everyone.

We’re showing some

[ snappy silvertones in

L black, blue and brown
aos and OXFORD GREYS

a in a wide variety of
styles Priced at

 

ee

$25.00 $30.00 & $33.00

shane’s Mens Wear

50 Spring SOP Garden Road

STUDENTS GET A DISCOUNT OF 10%

 

   

 

 
 

 

 
 

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

   

 

 

 

 

 
  

 

  

) Tune of “John Brown’s Body.

Dunk, dunk, dunk, the boys
are dunking

Every morning in the bookstore; ;

They dunk their doughnuts
in their cups of Java,

As Polar Pie leads on

The Students’ Forum.

Mr. Editor: |
The football season is nearly
Over now, and little has been
done to organize an effective
rooting section of the studects.

  

 

Mr Editor
Dear ‘Sir:—

I would like, first of all, to
commend the bold stand taken
by Egbert. There is certainly

Where Knowled ge

-
  
   
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
    
    
    
 
 

~.
ch

i. F
a

‘ *
i ee

‘Hot Place’.” »

Things Observer would like
to know— ;

Where Peg Allen satisfies her
gastronomical desires every Sunday evening?

~ Whom Murray
visit at the Hall?
How Dan Harvey felt having

_ tea at the Hall, Sunday?—At

home?
Where Fran goes on her Sunday afternoon walks?

Doris Nickerson has
been very snooty to all
members of the Gazette
Staff since Observer put
her name in the paper.
Of course she is secretly
delighted, but wouldn’t
admit it for worlds.
Here it is again, Nicky!

So the Commerce Boys, in (Ad in Gazette). : dmitted he|them?’ The t b f .
Sek Etre se Fresh : mores were a mitted to the em: 1e team begs or stu- bh
return for the invitations they fees aries teak Public Speaking Club when/dent support; they need it to ow to make CEG AES.

didn’t receive to the Hall Dance
are searching in the city for
material for their ‘‘Big Ball.”
Is that true Dal Spirit?

Egbert promises to publish
next week an etching of himself,
by himself, as he was several
years ago. No doubt you will
be able to identify him!

And while on the subject of
Doris, may we congratulate her
on the quality and the number
of her dates. Variety does seem
to be rather spicy! But what
chance has a mere male under

the bewitching glances of those

baby blue eyes? We offer the
analogy of ‘Celluloid Dogs
Chasing an Asbestos Cat in the

  
  

Our High Quality Standard

 

Ryan comes to

Sing itagain!!! Wedon’tcare.

 

 

History Prof. (helping his
History 3 students to get
through): ‘‘Bah Jove, not
many more jolly auld
days left. Take my advice and do your Christmas swatting early.’’

4

German Prof. (quite innocent?)—‘The class will translate
sentences orally as I make them
up—I am glad to be acquainted
with you Miss Vernon.

WANTED: Two beautiful
brunettes to have tea on
Sunday evenings with
two Budding Barristers,
of Scotch descent, at a
boarding house.

for Delta Gamma bids I
thought.
Again, “Shades of Ducky.”

 

Shirreff Hall

Lib Murray was staying with
Gladys Jost. Lib is teaching at
Edgehill this year and seems to
be progressing favourably.

 

Jean Britain's parents from
St. John came over for the weekend and siayed at the Lord
Nelson Hotel. Also Doris Nickerson’s family were in Halifax
for the holiday.

Dan Harvey was entertained
at tea Sunday affernoon at the

hall.

Miss Dora Baker is an aunt.

a great need for reform in the
present Student Council The
great trouble, I believe, lies in
the fact that the majority of the
members are elected not because of their ability but because of their popularity. A
great example of inefficiency
took place a short time ago.
The interfaculty football manager informed a team manager
late one night that a game
would take place the next day.
Although greatly inconvenienced
the team manager assembled his
team. Then when both teams
had gotten ready, they found
that another team had the use
of the field. Is this how the
interfaculty manager works
in the interests of the students?

To conclude this letter I would
like to know how those sopho
about 25 other students were
turned away because the membership was reserved for senior
students? Would I be too bold
to suggest siring pulling? And
why were Dal debaters excluded
from our representation to the
Model League of Nations?
Yours truly,
Just Inquisitive.

U. K. C. Notes

At a recent meeting of the
King’s College Athletic Association, Mr. Fred Godfrey was
elected manager of the hockey
team. Providing enough men
show a real interest in hockey
this year, a team will be entered
in the city league. King’s has
plenty of excellent material for
a team, and if the enthusiasm
of the men is sufficient to balance
the inconvenience of practice
hours, then the team will enter
and make its presence felt in the

 

 

Dalhousie has been very sadly
lacking in this branch of development and when we venture to

compare the cheering support

given to our team with that
given by other Maritime universities—well, it just doesn’t exist.

Dalhousie students seem to be
labouring under the mistaken
idea that to open one’s mouth
at a rugby game is absolutely
indecent and lacking in all semblance of dignity. Whata smug
complacent, self-centered attitude to adopt! Ask any member of the team whether or not
good cheering support makes
any difference to them; ask them
if they don’t put that extra
spark of vitality into their playing when they realize that every
member of the college is cheering
for them and depending on

win!

The support given the cheerleaders at the last game was a
disgrace to the student body.
They are stationed at the bleachers for the benefit of the students.
In their hands is placed the
responsibility of working out a
system for encouraging the members of the team both individually and collectively, but when
students fail to cooperate in a
true sportsmanlike manner, the
result certainly leaves a bad
taste in the mouths of visitors.
This situation is not only deplorable but critical. If the
students generally would forget
who the cheerleaders are, and
remember that they are there
solely for the benefit of the
team and the students themselves, the situation would probably right itself.

A REAL DAL CO-ED.

——$——_

 

  
 

CIGAR

Helps QUALITY!
6
Knowledge of quality tobaccos
and years of experience in
blending are back of the phenomenal growth in the sales of
Winchester Cigarettes ...their
popularity being exceeded by
no other blended cigarette
sold in Canada today!

There zs something in knowing

Winchester

Blended Right!

 

Imperial Tobacco Company of Canada, Limited

   
  
 
       
   
   
   
      

ETTES

      

 

phere which is so noticeable in
Yankee and Upper Canadian
colleges. Thank God we are
free from it! No greater blight
could settle upon a university.
Such a spirit is the very antithesis of everything for which this

ods of our less fortunate contemporaries. May the halls and
campus of this fair college never
be blighted by such tommy-rot.

I could say much more, but
you wouldn’t print it, theretore
I'll stop.

pL : Hig ae wate te error Ce league. ane eet Bie (ia oate university was founded. When
_ ff. makes our Low Prices Beet 00. WESEE Der Sister, VATS: iG Soe Gan re ee ree: the evils of “‘rah-rah” are so Yours sincerely,

  
 

 

ej
ako

_ || surrs, ovERCOATS

    

 

Doubly Attractive

     

FULL DRESS and
TUXEDO at one
price

ez.

Tip Top Tailors
THE STUDENT’S TAILORS
TRAMWAY BUILDING

Barrington and Sackville Sts.

      
   
       
   

Hewat, who is the proud mother of Dosie’s new niece.

MacLeod, Balcom,

Limited

DRUGGIST

HALIFAX and BEDFORD

 

The six-mile road race, which
is an annual event holding great
interest for the students, will
take place on Saturday, Nov.
19: In this race there is class
competition as well as personal
competition.

A very pleasant evening of
badminton was spent in the
King’s gym on Thursday, November 10th, when the College
Badminton Club was host to
members of the St. Luke’s Club.
After the matches, which were
merely friendly games, refreshments were served in the Co-eds
Residence.

 

—

 

And Now----lts Hockey And
Skating Time ! !

And Phinney’s have all the neccessary equipment for
you, including a complete range of C. C. M. and Starr

Dear Sir:—

With reference to an item
regarding the band which appeared in the columns of your
remarkable journal last week.
The band, as an organization
for the production of music, is
certainly worthy of the fullest
student support. But if, as the
Gazette says, the band is “trying
to instill some of that rah rah’
spirit that is so lacking at Dal,”
it should be obliterated from
the face of the earth. No organization could have a more
unworthy object than _ that.
Dalhousie students may lack
something of that spirit of cooperation without which no large
body can work effectively; but
they do not need any rah-rah
spirit. One of the best things
about Dalhousie is that it is
lacking in that peculiar atmos
The
Student’s

 

           

plain to all thinking persons,
why should we adopt the meth
Get Your
Moneys Worth!

The very latest in cooking
devices are used here, giving you

higher food values in every dish.

THE
Green Lantern

409 Barrington St.

 

TOM BROWN.

 

 

BUCKLEY’S
FIVE
Drug Stores

 

 

 

 

BIRK

Fraternity Pins and Class
Jewellery depend largely onthe
skill and experience of the
maker for that smartness so
desired.

 

 

 

Birks have specialized for
years and now supply practically all the schools and colleges in the Province.

Sketches and quotations
gladly submitted without

Skates. L d The Seal of Quality charge.
Hockey Sticks, Pucks, Pads, Gloves uniforms---Skating ;
Shoes for Women and Men----All Wool Sweaters in - - - aun ry HALIFAX, N. S. Henry Birks & Sons

College and Club colors.

Special Value in Dal Sweaters
For One Week Only

$6.95

Speciai discount to students holding Council of
Students Membership Tickets.

A

{) ®

     

MUSIC CO.L7 ee,
456-460 BARRINGTON ST:

    

B
“ft __

iA

   

      
    
 
   
 
    
 

Halifax Steam
Laundry

Limited

         
    

81-85 West St.

Phone L-2300 & L-2309

   

   
 

 
 
 

————
ee

Music in all Branches.

Principal

  
  

Tuition Fee $75.00 per year.

   
 

 

 

Halifax Ladies College

Conservatory of Music

Teacher’s Certificate.
Licentiate or Bachelor of Music, Dalhousie University.
MISS E. FLORENCE BLACKWOOD, B.A.,

NOVA SCOTIA TECHNICAL COLLEGE
ENGINEERING COURSES

IN
CIVIL ELECTRICAL, MECHANICAL AND MINING
To Dalhousie Students with Engineering Diploma
g Staff with Industrial Experience
Twenty-five scholarship of $75.00 each.
Write or call for Calendar or advice.

Modern Equipment, Instructin

Limited
DIAMOND MERCHANTS
Halifax, N. S.

   
 
   

UPPER AND LOWER
SCHOOL
Household Science: Teacher’s
and Dietitian’s Certificate,
Graduation Diploma.
MR. HARRY DEAN

Director of Conservatory

 

F. H. SEXTON, Pres.

    
     
     
      
 
   
  
  
  
   
   
 

  

November 16th, 1932

SIMPSONS

   
  
        
    
   

 

=

Delta Gamma
Meets For Debate
With Mt.St.

Vincent Team

aie eee DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

nedule For Inter-| Egbert Defends
Ls ie ani ty Games Is (Continued from page 1 col. 1.)
fie Dr tare 1 les | Perhaps an approximate item
oes Drawn Up _ |ized account might make things
- ‘The following schedule is as|* little clearer.

a Driers

With Saturda'y’s game against

 

 
   
   

a

           
 
 

tine 5: < ceitic Bonavers: - Hotel. Gym.| Caledonia bringing the Football! Re
oar oe De tk Tickets $3.00  $1.75)season to a close the Basketball | © Delta.Gamma held a very Made To
adhered to until further notice. | 00™ ae players will now start training |), ely attended meeting at Shir-|
-_ All games are to be played on roi j 150 1 50 in earnest. reff Hall on Tuesday evening. Measure
Monday and Thursday at 7, 875038: Ce ; 2 ...| During the short business meetNee ac tee! aera So =. eigarettes 25 .25| players in school, ee ra Pinte anertoed that a tee Suits
fi haa a ; Meal Newt Bi. : 2. | 800s. Fairstein, Handler, Ander- hahot Baiday
aa aie Thursday, ey Total $13.25 $6.50] son, Bauld, as well as the follow- ne i , a igen eter 2? 50 4 5
po eS. Bey re Mite es Without Room, $8.25. With-|ing possibilities, Ted and Doug ¢¢ 44, Community Chest and 2 to
Arts vs Engineers. : out Taxi, $3.50. ee aeiarh Crease, Clark, Lorway, Richard- urged everyone to attend. The
--- ‘Pheologs vs Commerce. Is it clear “Dalhousie Girl”?|son, Lloy, Dubilier and several] .?0F feature of the evening, a
FS haga we Wags 8 went Let us hope so for I am going|boys from American colleges] debate with Mount Saint Vin- 0 t
| oe Monday; Nov. 21. to tell you something funny.|who will all make last year’s} 44 College then took place. vercoats

Did you know that you person-| Varsity step to hold their posially told Egbert what you|tions, things look excellent for
thought of him, and told him|the return of the City and
what you were going to say in| Provincial Title to Dalhousie.
your reply? Do be more care-| They were here in 1930, why
ful! Here is something else.|not this year?

You know the fellow whom Art
Cooke told to buy a hat in last
week’s Observer?
doesn't?

u

The subject of the evening was
“Resolved that the results justify
the increase in higher education
among women,” with Dalhousie
upholding - the negative. The
speakers were introduced by
Betty March.

“Spreading The News” by
Lady Gregory was then presented and was received with much

Meds vs Theology.
~ . » -Engs. vs Frosh... 7
Law vs Commerce.

      
 

$25 to $70

Made-to-measure clothes
by Simpsons give that air
of distinction so essential
to college students.

 
 

*

p re :" Thursday, Nov. 24.

   

L How about the Dalhousie tenYessure,who/nis club giving the fans the
Well, he was talking|/names of the winners of the

 

  
 
 
 
 
      
 

Every suit or overcoat is

       

  

2 to Egbert the other day, and|college tournaments? If they pans pee individually cut and tail
.-- ; ’ : appreciation. The players were oe

i. = Monday, Nov. 28. asked aoe what C thought of|are not finished what steps are Medcaabed Wisokevce: * Barbara ored by Simpsons experts.
Egbert’s letter. Well before, I going to be taken to complete Walker, Lois Hudson, Louise A large range of patterns

     

could say anything he told me| them?

he was Egbert. Can you beat —
that; he told a lot of other people} Don’t forget the Pre-Christtoo, so you just tell the girls) mas Wrestling Championships
that, and I'll bet he won't get a} Thursday night in the Lower

Commerce vs Theology.
--—- Medicine vs Law.
_~__—« Engineers vs Arts.

: aa -.-. Section A.

assures you of a cloth to

Manuel, Helena Bishop, Dora S J
your liking.

Baker, Moira Davidson, Moira
MacLeod, Winifred Scott and
Doris French.

Following this the judges of

 

      
 

Extra trousers at a reasonable added charge.

    

 
   
 

- Section B.

      
 
 

      

Theology. Freshmen. bid to Delia Gamma. “Fools,|Gym at 7.30 p.m. All students] 4p, Setiiee Mis. Cahao. Mrs. Satisfaction in style, fit
. Medicine. Engineers. certainly do walk where angels| invited. Wilson Smith and Mrs. C. L. ian
Commerce. Arts. kear t0 tread.” He had better) ————— Bennett, gave their decision for

       

Law. : be careful or he will have Omega} The annual meeting between
? _ Any team not being ready to after him. No! my mistake, for|the Profs and the Students will
_ start 5 minutes after scheduled|Omega cannot understand the|take place Friday night when
, cae ‘time will have to play with|chatter of the magpie nor the|the Teachers and the Taught
‘number present or forfeit. gossip of the jay.” Too bad meet at Badminton.

‘Referees will be chosen from} Omega, you should have been of ae
each faculty. The Romantic Revival, or even} The Sydney Post, referring to

e the Victorian Era, for you claim|the kick for goal by Harold

= - too much, when through your Davidson of that city which

signature you identify yourself| decided the game for Dalhousie

as a contemporary of Lyly, in|against the Wanderers, recalls

the school of “Euphemism.’’| that it was this same Davidson!
Omega, your so styled euphemis-|who was responsible for the}
tic amamenisings have been|furior Interscholastic Cham
wasted on the unambidexterical| pionship going to Sydney Aca
ones, for whom it was intended.|demy in 1926. Playing Pictou

Egbert mourns for you, on your| Academy, Davidson booted over

brilliant letter, or rather aberrant| a drop-kick in the second period |
=| and paraphrastic effort, but aftet|of the game for the only score

‘|jall, Omega, was it not just a|of- either team. i

    

 
 

the affirmative. The meeting
broke up after the usuel refreshments and dancing.

“Putting Barcley
On The Map’”’

Concluded

 

 

        
  
      
   
  
 

xh. things, you knew I was going to
re be busy, I told you the last |
time Isaw you. I—I—I— took |
it for granted you'd know.”
Mary Lou took the bull by the
: horns, “You take entirely too
Mary Lou said a little trem-| much for granted Mr. John R.
ulously, “Hello?” “Hello” an-'Culbertson and I’m tired of
swered Johnny, “How've you|listening to you talking from
been? Hello, hello, Mary Lou?” morning till night about nothing
The icicle answered, “I’ve been pyt putting Barclay on the map.
in the best of health, and you?’’|] don't care if Barclay never
‘Fine, I'm coming Over tO Se€|/gets on the map and whl looks
you—O. K.? I’ve a grand idea, | at maps anyway? 1 hate maps,
but I haven't time to tell you]] hate Barclay, I hate—’’ “Vou
now. Be seeing you?’ And |are hysterical, Mary Lou,” said
he hung up. } Mary Lou s knees Johnny and put down the tattershook for quite a while but she]eq notebook. “Besides me,

 

WRESTLERS NOTES
The Pre-Christmas Wrestling Championships will

 

   

beheld this coming Thursday, November 17th. These
bouts are not to be exhibitions but are for the supremacy of the University.
Entries close Wednesday
with Mr. Stirling, and contestants must weigh in
from 11.30 a. m.-2.30 p. m.,
Thursday.
Scene: Gymnasium.
Time: 7.30, P. M. Thursday.

 
 
 
 
 
      
 

   

es ree ccitt

_- | ~Shampooing, Marcelling

‘ Finger Waving, Scalp Treat
ee | ments, Facials ones

| 326 MORRIS STREE
Ae et 6 Minors 5.6568

        
   
 
    
    
   
  
 

  
       

 
 
 

     
  

 
    
  

oe ae a

 

 

 
 

   
 

 

  
  
  

|conglomeration of oblationary

    

 

      
  

  
 
  
   
   
      

ou: —~ os oe hen x3 ee phrases? » me :

RS ae ‘THIS WEEK — | _ Sincerely yours, —
Ls Wednesday and EGBERT.
- | ~~ GEORGE ARLISS

Special

   

STUDENT SERVICE

DRY CLEANING
PRESSING
REPAIRING

—We call for and deliver.—

Cousins, Limited

Master Cleaners and Dyers
507-11 Robie St. 381 Barrington St
Telephone Lorne 2323

__ |THE SUCCESSFUL
| CALAMITY”

Friday and Saturday
HAROLD LLOYD

«MOVIE CRAZY”

20 & 30
Children 10

     

 

        
         
 

Ehentoes —_
Matinee 25

CASINO

Thursday to Saturday
November 17-18-19

ff “TRE MOST
- ff DANGEROUS GAME”
wk bn i —with—

JOEL McCREA
_ FAY WRAY

    

   
  
   
 

 

 

 

  
  
  

Wed. Thurs. Fri. Nov. 16-17-18
‘Six Hours To Live’

with
WARNER BAXTER

Sat. Mon Tues. Nov. 19-20-21

 
 
 
 

     
 
  

  

     
 
  
  
  
  

     
   
   
 

NEXT WEEK First time at Popular
NORMA SHEARER Prices
FREDERICK MARCH 66 y
LESLIE HOWARD Grand Hotel

Greta Garbo, Joan Crawford
Wallace Beery, Lionel Barrymore
John Barrymore

|] “SMILIN THROUGH”

   

TOBIN & Co,

LIMITED

an A
~ + ;
<a a a A. 7
a> OE
. yt é,
a.
c= ees
= * gg
a
ide ae r
i .
ae “
A
7

7 oie
a

       

“
#

 
 
 
  

a
*
BG ;

    
   
  

Wholesale Grocers

   
 
  

aE

¥
72.

L ‘ s
= Per.

ri
a vor

5
4 ve

plas

 
 
 
   

For Birthdays or

Christmas
Senda ,

- MacASKILL PICTURE

&

    

    

 
 

fs
4

|
5

iY

 

a +

   

Tea Merchants

=

 

             
 
    
 
   

 

      
   
      
     
          
 
 

   
     
  
    
      
   
  
    
   
 
   
 

The Second Book Of Bunc

 

Chapter 4.

1. And there came one unto
the man Bunc and said unto him,
Get thee into the Kleenik in
order that thou mayest be examined and he went.

2. And lo, when he came
unto the place, behold he was
divested of his raiment and an
an instrument lodged on his
arm.

3. Then said the man of
Science unto him, Bend thy
back that I may thump thee
and he did and was thumped.
And the latter continued and
said, cough and he coughed;
and he said, cough again and
he coughed again.

4. Then said the man of
Science, unto the Chronicler
Bunc, Enough, thou hast been
examined, yea completely, and
behold thou art well.

®. But the man Bunce was
sore amazed and said unto himself, Lo, can this be true? Can
this be the* examination, yea
the medical? And there came
an answer unto his innermost
thoughts and a voice said, It is
true, for lo, hast thou not paid
thy shekels?

6. And there came another
and he cried, Behold I have
here a certific from a greater
man of Science than thou art,
and that one said I am well
unto my health; why then should
I tarry here?

7. But they said unto that
one, Nay thou must. This is
the better; and he laughed and
there laughed many with him;
yea, verily the men of Dal
laughed within their tents.

8. Now in the Land of Dal
there liveth a famous man and
his fame is known unto the
four corners of the Land, and
behold he is the learned Seeyell
of the tribe of Benet, but the
inhabitants call him Bennie,
which meaneth Son of the Flying Hair.

9. For when Arch, beloved
of old by the men of Dal departed hence; behold his domain

was given unto him of the Benet
tribe, yea verily, the domain of
Engleesh, and he ruleth there
unto this day.

10. And lo, this prince knoweth his magic too and maketh
theems come out of the air and
nothingness.

11. And they who are good
are punished with a scarcity of
theems, but they who are slothful and wicked are plagued with
many and to them also who
stamp unto the floor.

12. And the populace groaned under the burthen of the
theems, with which they were
plagued and muttered within
themselves, would that Mylton
had died in his cradle and
Shakesbeer and his son Faxbout
Shakesbeer had ne’er been conceived.

13. And the Chieftains of
Gaz are a hardy people, yea
verily.

14. Lo, there was Horis, who
now is a Profess, and verily, he
was a mighty leader of Gaz.
many years ago.

15. And there also was Jenings of the tribe of Med, who
later became Father of the Council of Studes.

16. Then came Bennar ot
Guss, and after him George of
Dent and Kelly, the Inimitable.

17. And next in line was
Arthur, surnamed the Joonyer
who now controlleth the destinies of the armies of Dal and
with him, Gordon the Wise, of
the tribe of Cooper. And he
liveth now away from his people.

18. And the next chieftain of
Gaz was Teedee, who waged the
Three Week Battle with the
Council of Studes; and with
him was Beel, who speaketh
seldom, but speaketh well.

19. And now the chieftains
are Spry, the Tall and Ed; and
lo, they are-men of Stud ‘and
live not in the Forrest, for lo,
did not the Council say unto
the people, Behold, the chieftains of Gaz shall no longer be
chosen from’ those who dwell in
the Forrest?

  
 

 

 

 

managed to pull herself together.

Johnny’s voice hadn’t sounded
exactly as if he were preparing

to eat humble pie. He had
actually sounded rather cocky.
The icicle froze up again. When

room her worst fears were realized
—Johnny was not on his hands
and knees, neither was he standing with head bowed—he stood
quite bold and fearless holding
a tattered notebook in his hand,
and on his face, Mary Lou
could hardly believe it, on his
face a grin! Johnny felt there
was something wrong, ‘You
didn’t sound very friendly over
the telephone Mary Lou anything the matter?’’ ‘Perhaps
it was because your voice was so
strange I didn t recognize it at
first.’’ Liar! ‘I’ve been rather
busy the last few days, Mary
Lou, I thought you understood
that—basketball and a few other

lees Lou entered the reception

T. J. WALLACE

SIGHT SPECIALIST
Y.M.C.A. Bldg.

“If You Want To See Well
See Wallace.’’

A nN

Crook’s Fish Market

Fresh, Salted and Smoked Fish
Lobsters and Oysters in Season
228 ARGYLE ST. Phone B-7259
Halifax, N. S.

 

    
   
   

 

 

NICKERSON & CREASE
Limited
Wholesale Fruit and Produce
574-578 Barrington St.
HALIFAX, N. S.

 

FROM THE

WINNERS FROM

For 60 years the REACH Trade
Mark on Sporting Goods has been
a mark of perfection. No matter
what your favorite sport may be
we can supply you with equipment
that will help you play the game
with the best that’s in you.

CRAGG BROS CO,,

  

  
   
  
    
 
 
    

your whole family, eh?

your honor. It
family.

 
       
     
    

Barclay, and the map, what
specially seems to be the matter?’ The icicle melted suddenly, “I don’t know, Johnny.”
“You didnt forget about the
dance to-night, did you Mary
Lou? Remember I told you
last time I saw you, remember
Mary Lou? ‘Yes I remember
Johnny,” and the blue eyes

sparkled again with pleasure—
and wisdom.

Keeper: You think you’re sane, eh?
Well, if we give you your liberty will

\ .
you keep away from liquor and women?

Asylum Inmate: I certainly will.
Keeper: Then you stay in. You're

still crazy.

 

Chicago Judge: So you murdered
: Thirty days!
Prisoner: Don’t be so hard on me,
was only a small

 

HALIFAX TAXI CO.
‘Service Bul S7E

 

 
 
  

      
  
 

Achievement

‘‘Whatsoever I have..

tried to do in life, I have
tried with all my heart
to do well.

 

 
     
  
 

Whatever I have devoted
myself to completely; In
great aims and in small,
I have always been thoroughly in earnestly.”’

Chas. Dickens.

 

 
       
   
 
   

  

STANFORD

clothes are good.

   

ROBT. STANFORD
LIMITED

158 Hollis St. Halifax, N.S.

   

 
