  
  

—

_ Large Geological Endowment

ix

Pe Dalhousie University has re
—— geived $125,000 from the Carshe egie Corporation of New York,
aa for the endowment of Geology.
Between 1911 and 1932 Dal- -housie has received from the
Bes Carnegie Corporation $1,207,000
F and recently the Corporation
ah de eranted the University $9,000
u for expenditure on the library.
This new gift for Geology is
> very timely; last autumn, Professor G. Vibert Douglas, who
| ee has had a very distinguished
be career as a geologist joined the
Dalhousie staff as Professor of
Geology. Professor Douglas is
-  g. Canadian and a graduate of
oy McGill University; he lectured
in Geology at Harvard Univer/  ‘gity for three years. He was
ie | - - Chief Geologist on the ‘‘Quest”’
: R. Y.S. with the late Sir Ernest
Shackleton on his last expedition. Another expedition on
which he was sent as Chief
— Geologist was that to Northern
Rhodesia to the Rhodesian Con~. go Border Concession. Profesgor Douglas has numerous pubfications to his credit; he isa
“member of the Mineralogical
Society of London; of the Can adian Institute of Mining and
Metallurgy, and of the Engineering Institute of Canada. This
ift from the Carnegie Corporafon is the first endowment that
- the department of Geology has
received; with such a capable
and interesting leader, and with
such mineral deposits as Nova
Scotia possesses it is felt that
‘this timely and highly appreciated gift is fully justified.

   
  
   
 
  

 

President Speaks
On Farming

Before the 37th annual convention of the Nova Scotia
‘Farmers’ Association, President
Stanley delivered a startling and
very pessimistic address. Much
of the farmland of Nova Scotia
should never have been tilled, he
declared) Because the greater
part of it is marginal land the
opening of the exceedingly fertile
Canadian West has_ reduced
farming in Nova Scotia to an
unrpofitable occupation. With
the further development of this
region we can look forward to
‘- a still greater number of desert, ed farmlands within the pro
vince. Yet despite this our farmers haye suffered less from the
depression than have those of
the West. This is explained by
the fact that Western farm produce depends on an international market, while that of Nova
Scotia does not.

It is folly to advise the adoption of modern business methods
in farming. The two have nothing in common. “To the best
of my belief,’ said President
Stanley, ‘‘over a long period of
iime and over a large area of the

f

earth’s surface, farming has nev
 @r paid.”

  
   
 

 

Received From Carnegie

Valuable Prizes to

ey

The announcement and rules
regarding the poetry and essay
prizes to be awarded by the
College lave just been posted.
The awards obtainable total
several hundreds of dollars, one
of the first prizes being one of
two hundred dollars. For the
students interested in prose writing, on topics of literary, historical or philosophical interest,
there are the James DeMille
Prizes, the two prizes totalling
$300.00. And if the student
desires to write on such a subject as the relation of the Overseas Dominions to, and as, constituents of the British Commonwealth, he may submit his essay
for the Halifax Overseas Club
Essay ‘Prize. :

Should the student possess, or
consider he possesses, the knack
of writing poetry of lyric, epic
or dramatic quality, the Joseph
Howe Prizes, also of considerable
value, can be had through competition. 7

During the past few years
remarkably little interest has
been evinced by the students
in these contests, resulting in a
theme of decidedly lukewarm
quality being awarded the prize.

It is hoped that this year a great

many students will compete,
and that the work submitted
will be really worth an award.
The fact that the previous essays
have been so palpably poor
should encourage many. No
previous application. must be
filed for an award; the essays
vary in length from 1,000 to
5,000 words, and all work must
be handed in by March 81st.
The University office will gladly
furnish. further details upon request.

Health Centre
Receives Gift

The  Massachusetts-Halifax
Relief Committee of Boston has
given Dalhousie University the
sum of $13,589.51. The money
is to be invested in trustee
securities, and the interest used
for the purchase of sera or other
biological products to be used in
the Public Health Centre for the
treatment and prevention of
communicable diseases. This
fund represents the balance remaining in the hands of the
Committee of about $700,000
subscribed by the people of
Massachusetts for the relief of
people of Halifax and Dartmouth following the Explosion,
Dec. 6th, 1917.

 

 

NOTICE.

All those wishing to use
rooms in the Arts building
for the purpose of holding
meetings are requested to
ask permission from the University Office first.

THE

__ | NOVA SCOTIAN HOTEL

Limited Ticket Sale now on at College

sateen Rte eae ieee ee

Official Student Publication at Dalhousie University

 

HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA, FEBRUARY Ist, 1983.

Governors Hold

 

Glee Club Plans

Awaited Meeting Minstrel Show

At a recent meeting of the
Board of Governors, resolutions
were passed, indicating gratitude
of the Governors to the Carnegie
Corporation of New York, for
its $125,000 endowment of Geology, and its $9,000 grant to the
Library; to Dr. William Inglis
Morse, for his recent donation
of books, maps, letters, etc.:
to Mr. D. MacGillivray for his
donation to the University of
Massey Rhind’s bust, in bronze,
of Lord Dalhousie; also to the
Massachusetts-Halifax Health
Commission, for turning over a
fund of more than $18,000 for
the Public Health Clinic, the
revenue to be used for immunization purposes. A report of
returns, up to date, of the
Gymnasium Fund Campaign
was also given.

Other routine business was
also transacted and arrangements were made for reducing
expenditures next year.

 

Marquis of Zetland
To Lecture

 

Dean Grant’s lecture, which
was to have been held on February 38, has been postponed
until the first Friday in March,
in order to avoid a clash with
the lecture, arranged for the
same date, by the Committee of
the National Council of Education. ‘This lecture will be given
by the Marquis of Zetland, formerly the Earl of Ronaldshay.
The subject will be “‘Lord Curzon.’ ‘Through the courtesy of
the Halifax Committee of the
National Council of Education,
this lecture will be given in the
university gymnasium, Friday,
February 3. The lecture is entirely free, and may be attended
by anyone who wishes to do so.

This occasion gives an opportunity to university students to
listen to a recognized authority
on India, and on British statesmen who have influenced Indian
affairs.

The next Glee Club show,
which will probably take place
within the next two weeks, will
constitute a departure from the
usual performance. An old time
minstrel show, complete with
interlocutor, end men, and a
colorful chorus, will be put on
under the direction of Mr. Bob
Whites, who has had considerable experience in this kind of
work. Doug Murray, President
of the Glee Club, has devoted
considerable time to planning
this show, which it is hoped,
will put the “glee’’ back in Glee
Club. Rehearsals have been under way for the past week and
the Glee Club executive and
the members of the cast are
most enthusiastic; in fact, the
walls of the Munro Room fairly
quiver as the chorus puts its
soul into the various numbeis.
The date of this performance
will be posted soon—keep it
open.

 

International Club
Meets

The group which is studying
the subject, ‘The Application
of Christian Principles to International Relations,’ under the
leadership of Dr. MacKay, held
its second meeting on Saturday.
Discussion on William James’s
essay on “The Moral Equivalent
of War’ was concluded. This
group is conducted by Dr. MacKay under the auspices of the
Student Christian Movement.
It was erroneously stated in the
Gazette last week that membership was open to all interested.
Membership is restricted to the
number now in the group, but
the executive of the S. C. M.
is endeavoring to arrange for
another group which might study
the same topic or one similar
oO! FE, Students interested
should speak to Walter Mutch,
Ben Rogers, or Dorothy Redmond.

Coming Events

 

9-11 P. M.—Glee Club practice in the College

2 A. M.—Class ’36 meets in Room 4.
8 P. M.—Bennett Shield Debate—Juniors: vs.

Seniors—Subject—" Dominion Government should

Wednesday
ymnasium.
Thursday—
trade with Russia.
Allison basketball
next Thursday.
Friday— 8.15 P. M.—Lecture

2?

Dance in Gymnasium following Dalhousie-Mt.

game,

Parliamentary Procedure Club is postponed until

in Gymnasium by the

Marquis of Zetland—subject—‘‘Lord Curzon.”

ce

8.30 P.

M.—King’s College Play—‘Mr. Pim

_ Passes By’’—at the Theatre Arts Guild.
Saturday— 8 P. M.—Haliburton Club at Kings.

2.30 P.

 

Saturday and Sunday
Monday—

7 : M.—Glee Club practice.
7-9 P. M.—Interfaculty basketball, occurring

every Monday at this hour.

Tuesday—

12 A. M.—Class ’83 meets in Room 8,

Will all societies who wish to publish the time and

place of their meetings,

please send the notices to

che News Editor.

i

 

Professor Adair Of McGill
Lectures On The Civil War

 

The S. C. M. At

Fhe Student Christian Movement at Dalhousie is about to
carry out a campaign to raise
funds for the local unit and
for the national movement. The
Movement claims support because it feels that its place in the
University is a very important
one. It has two great aims.
First, it provides opportunities
for the student to find for himself a religion which is real,
personal, and proof against the
critical attitude which is fostered by the sudden increase in
knowledge and experience which
comes to the thinking, student
in university life. Secondly, it
tries to unify the student bodies
the world over in purpose and
general outlook.

The students’ possession of
an active religion is the basis on
which the S. C. M. hopes to
accomplish its work. The practical applications of religious beliefs naturally lead to a great
interest in social and political
questions of all kinds. Study
Groups on the campus are doing
work in both these fields. The
interchange of ideas and experiences at the conferences and
retreats held periodically by the
whole or sections of the National
movement provide a_ splendid
stimulus to interest and thought
on important questions.

 

Dance in Gym

Following the Dalhousie-Mt.
Allison basketball game, a dance
will be held in the gymnasium.
The Council is putting this dance
on as an experiment; if a large
number attend, this will be a
regular feature of the games, for
any number of games and dances can be held if the students
will respond. Turn out and
support your team, and enjoy
the subsequent dancing. A
dance after every game.

Liberal Club

Formed

 

A new organization is making
its appearance on the Dalhousie
Campus, to be known as the
Liberal Club of Studley. A club
similar to this is very active
down at the Law School, and
it is hoped that all those interested in Liberal views and
policies will turn out for it. A
meeting will be called in the
near future in the Arts building
for the purpose of electing officers and discussing plans for
the coming year. Notices will
be posted very shortly.

Conservatives resign:
Conservative Government. of
Dalhousie Law School, under
the leadership of Rt. Hon. Arthur S. Patillo were forced on
Monday evening to resign.

The

1933 TECH BALL

CABARET

FRIDAY, FEBRUARY 3rd, 1933

SUPPER DANCE

Admission $5.00 Per Couple

 

 

Tables reserved for any size party

 

    
 
  
 
 
   
   
 
  
 
   
  
  
    
 
  
   
  
  
  
  
   
  
   
 
    
    
  
  
  
  
 
 
  
   
  
 
  
  
   
  
  
 
  
   
  
    
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
   
  
   

No. 13

Professor E. R. Adair, Professor of History at McGill
University, delivered the third
lecture in the University Lecture
Course last Friday evening in
the Gymnasium. Professor
Adair’s subject which he handled in an easy, charming manner,
was The Civil War in American
History.

The speaker, in the course of
his address, drew attention to
the fundamental differences between the South and the North.
The South has been peopled by
gentry, the North by a class
which has come to America
in search of religious freedom.
The South maintained commercial and cultural contact with
England, but the North lived
more unto itself. The War of
Independence and the War of
1812 were followed by industrialization of the North, and
tarifis were imposed to the detriment of the Southern agricultural economy. The resulting
antagonism was one of the underlying causes of the Civil War.
interstate jealousy was another
important cause, Extremists in
both the North and the South
excited passionate feelings in the
slavery question. John Brown’s
raid was the beginning of the
end; war soon. followed. » The
Civil War and the corrupt and
criminal treatment of the South
which followed it left the South
poverty-stricken and decadent
for fifty years; it gave rise to a
materialistic society with corrupt political institutions in the
North; it resulted in the failure
of the Empire of Maximilian in
Mexico; and it was a potent
factor in hastening confederation
in British North America.

 

Second Health

Lecture Given

The second of the series of
lectures was delivered to the
students by Dr. Gosse in the
Gym on Thursday, Jan. 26th.
These lectures have practical
bearing on matters relating to
the health of every student and
it is hoped that many will
continue to attend. On Thursday, Dr. Grant, Dean of the
Medical School, introduced Dr.
Gosse, who then addressed the
student audience. He spek
first concerning the importance
of bathing, the kinds and the
most beneficial kind. The value
of cleanliness extends to the
prevention of infection of the
skin and Dr. Gosse urged that
the greatest care be taken to
avoid contact with infected objects. He also outlined the ef.
fects of both men’s and women’s
clothing upon physical and men
tal health. Exercise, he said is
necessary, though moderation
should be one main observance.
Fatigue should be carefully guar
ded against because of the effect
on the nervous system. Fatigue
means inefficiency and the stu
dent will retard in his work.
 

  
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
  
   
    
   
  
 
    
  
  
 
 
    
 
   
   
   
  
  
  
  
   
   
  
   
  
   
  
   
   
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 

 

ee oe ie i eae ee ay
~ he. iy 2 aay. Pes e st - SS odie +e” wv Caen he! 7 hy Dae aa a
? iB oe alt pa ee es Aa. ee ; a mee Te Pt » Pie a ed ! = : - — &
Se et ee es
eis) Nege to
eee pier to se , a ey
emmenrater rer eh 5
eos eee eee ae. pet oF i rt :
ae al beget oh 2 som a - * i oa 2 : :
ae Ni = J ss " ‘ if fa 2 ' re h f
‘ —F y — es ee : , Py h ‘ =
er = i bee _ AStop-gap Administration.
<s ity * - ie a <= a : .
. Th \merica .” Liberty Invaded.
<i DI | Before the Conference.
Th agen “B.9602.
"FRANK GOUDGE seen
SAM MARGOLIAN A Stop-gap Administration.

Pts ee es 2 DUBINGKY, A.
Wiiion =e NEWS STAFF. ©

= Women’s News Ediior.
RUTH CRANDALL
_ B. 9746.

_ Associates. \
| Merle Purtill .
Marg. Montgomerie
Mary F. Simmonds
Marion Morton
Dorothy Gray
_ Co-ed Sports.
GLADYS M. JOST. —
B. 9746.
Associate
Dorothy Vernon

Ree
ne nf f i

M

_ BUSINESS STAFF.
S a; : Asst. Business Manager
CHARLES CLARKE, B. A.
B. 3184.

ERIC D,. MURRAY
George H. Murphy

Editorial office B, 6676

 

THE TIME OF THE HEALTH LECTURES.
. ; are ,

Pee The ‘‘Health Lectures” arranged by the University are de--__—-_ jivered in the Gymnasium at twelve noon on Tuesdays and ThursA=. ae days. ‘Lhe attendance of the students so far has been very poor
and this response has been far from gratifying to the lecturer and
the University. Those in charge have pointed out and are conae at tinuing to point out that it is in the interests of the students that
this series of lectures has been arranged and that it is their duty
fi BS: a to attend the instructions. , |
~~ -‘ Tt has been brought to the attention of the Gazetie that the
time chosen for these lectures infringes on a previously unique
world right of the students—for twelve noon on Tuesdays and
_ ‘Thursdays has been the only period suitable for the holding of
an class meetings and the like. It cannot be said that the great body
airs _ of students who did not attend the lectures delivered so far were
attending other meetings—but it is very likely that those individuals who are sufliciently interested in College activities to attend
hese other meetingx are the ones who ordinarily would go to the

: res. & a tag: _ = :

e of these instructions in personal hygiene is un
ned—the great need for such knowledge among Valhousians
early shown by the reports of the medical examinations. As

r DeWitt pointed out, in his address about a fortnight ago,
students entering Acadia are obliged to attend a series of lectures
on this important topic. Although there is no obligation to attend
| -—s the ~instructions at Dalhousie this does not minimize their impor
ea
hl hae

ee lie

i

Ca
ad

so

7
—

hs

a tance.
~~ But is it advisable to hold these lectures at a time which the

it students have always considered their own for the holding of class
--——s meetings and similar gatherings? Is it not likely to promote a
_-_—__ spirit of indifierence among the students rather than the co-operation so much desired?

See 5x5 ' |
Paes

 

STUDENTS’ COUNCIL MEETINGS.

A great deal of criticism has been levelled at the Gazette about
the news story appearing in the last issue of the paper concerning
_ the meeting of the Students’ Council—the criticism being conpt cerned principally with the last paragraph of the story in which
the names of the council members who were not present at the
_ meeting were given. On inquiry, some members of the Council
claimed that they do not receive a notice of the proposed meetings
far enough in advance—others were of the contrary opinion. As
far as the general body of students is concerned, however, they
seldom know when a meeting is going to take place.

aoe.

Pe
ey
E

eee it a It is in the interests of the student body that notices of pro| posed Students’ Council Meetings should be posted on all the
“Bulletin Boards” of the College.

 

_ EXTEMPORANEOUS SPEAKING.

A year ago, Sodales Debating Society experimented with an
_ _Extemporaneous Speaking meeting, at which each of ten students
was given a subject on which to speak without preparation for
five minutes. Last week, Sodales, convinced of the success of the
experiment, held the second annual Extemporaneous Speaking
ae night. A good deal of doubt has been expressed as to the value
___ Of speaking without preparation. Such doubt is, at least in part,
a ms! justified although, as Sir Roger de Coverley would say, there is
_ much to be said on both sides. Its proponents say that extempor-- aneous speaking tests the general knowledge of the speaker and
requires him to think quickly, clearly and rationally while facing
an audience. On the other hand, as its critics generally argue,
__extemporaneous speaking encourages speakers to make sweeping
| assertions, which they cannot possibly substantiate, about subjects
of which they have little or no knowledge; in their panic they
_ think diffusely; the result is painful for the audience; and it serves
__ no useful purpose, as one is never called upon without notice to
speak on a subject with which one is not acquainted. Probably
true estimate lies somewhere between the two positions—
where, it is difficult to say. In our opinion the criticism,
h partly justified, is insufficient to condemn the practice of
raneous speaking. The treatment of the subject matter
mportant than the manner in which itis treated (or maltreatIf it teaches people to think quickly on their feet, and to
their thoughts, no matter how hair-brained they may be,

_ then Sodales is justified in fostering extemporaneous
‘n any event, it is better training for one to speak
usly than to recite a memorized speech.

pret
cee

7

ie ks
oe.

4 a a oS “
hah seat — Pee ee ok ee >A
AE Si a yt e “ioe
Rie sepia eS 28, pe
ba et IS gl“) PAs ait) t er a a ee
; - in, Pi m iP = rs ha Ae il

  

in the Gym have been inde
   

 

 

 

Probably the most important
question in France at the moment is the balancing of the

budget. This is why -the new
French Cabinet was called “a
stop-gap administration” by The
Spectator last month. The Budget deficit, according to M,
Cheron, the Minister of Finance,
amounts to 10,541,000,000 francs
($84,328,000 at par) which is
roughly one-fifth of the entire
Budget. How is this deficit to
be overcome? ‘The proposal is
to impose new taxes and by
restricting expenditure—certainly an ambitious programme for a
country where taxation is today
about 40 per cent higher than
it was in 1926, and where the
economic depression is by no
means unknown. M. Paul Boncour, who has bought the support of the Socialists by pledging
himself against further cuts in
salaries, has been well received
in France, but his position is a
precarious one (a statement that
might be said of any French
Government). On its ability to
deal with the National Budget,
hinges the fate of the French
Cabinet.

Editor’s Note—Since the above
was written the French Cabinet
has resigned.

Liberty Invaded.

The proceedings leading up
to and the imprisonment of Mr.
Tom Mann and Mr. Emrhys
Liewellyn, who were sent to
prison for refusing to enter into
recognisance with sureties to
keep the peace for twelve months,
are calling forth vigorous protests in the English press. Mr.
Lansbury’s personal appeal to
the Prime Minister was unproductive. On one side it is urged
that such an imprisonment is an
unwarranted interference with
civil liberty; on the other, that
such preventive action is the
“foundation of the security for
civil liberty peacefully enjoyed
by the community as a whole.”
The two statutes of 1360 and
1817 under which the proceedings were taken, do not satisfy
Mr. Harold Laski, who in writing of thisaffair says thatif heis
right in saying, ‘“‘that a warrant
must describe with reasonable
particularity the thing for which
the search is to be made, what
has occurred is the most indecent invasion of constitutional
liberty since the time of the
Wiikes affair... P

Before the Conference.

Before the World Economic
Conference meets, certain questions must be settled. Britain,
speaking through her representative, Sir Frederick Leith-Ross,
at the experts’ meeting at Geaeva. Before Britain will consent to link her currency definitely to gold, there must take
place an agreement about War
Debts, a reduction of trade
restrictions, and a reformed monetary system. It seems clear
that the path of agreement at
the Conference will be long and
difficult.

ri

GRADUATES.

The Photographers and executive of the Year Book remind the prospective graduates that their co-operation
is necessary if the Year Book
is to be out on time. Keep
the appointments arranged
for you and get your “‘proofs”’
back to the photographer as
soon as possible. Remember
there are 150 Graduates this
year.

—_—_———————

Health Lectures: The series
of ‘‘Health Lectures’’ scheduled
for Tuesdays and Thursdays

finitely postponed. |

oor

ee + caagre

   

ae ie ee

7 The

    
 

LOT

‘ss Fe oP,

= ~ : ‘ >.
, Se ee A oS Sih * ‘
i Ye a le! Aen . t-% ae w
- . te Pe tty hh Mate cm
Y = a a > —s, ik =i . a =a

*
—S

  
  

— = OM - i

iv i, cf

  

} a

as , Bey =e
7 *


   

 

=~
» 7

~

: Po ‘ a ~

x

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

| Waste-Paper
Basket

“unconsidered trifles’’

“The waste-paper basket that
is always full.’—R. Kipling.

Unrest regarding examinations
and lectures again finds expression in college organs of opinion.
There is a plain and easy remedy
for all these evils. Whatisneeded is an Abolition Society, such
as that which played so great
a part in ending negro slavery
in the United States. Its object
should be ending student slavery
in all colleges. Its programme
would be simple and command
universal support.

I. Abolish examinations.
Then there would be no anxiety
about results. This one reform
would bring relief and peace
and joy to every earnest student
in Canada. A monster petition
signed by every undergraduate
and presented to the Board of
Governors would do the trick.

II. Abolish lectures.

Ill. Abolish the staff.

The present college buildings
could then be properly employed. They are not too ample
for student activities—athletic,
social, literary, theatrical, etc.,
etc.

ee et ee

Sir Andrew MacPhail’s suggestion has not as yet received
the serious attention that it
deserves. He thinks that every
child, at birth, should have its
tonsils and appendix removed
and be given a Bachelor of Art
degree. What a vast amount
of time, money and energy
this simple plan would save!

—_——- —- —_——
Written examinations are comparatively recent. In the good
old days at Oxford, they were
a gentleman's agreement, arrived
at after a good dinner, which
the examinee “‘stood’’ the examiner. There is much to be
said for such a plan. Lord
Erskine got his degree at Oxford
by answering two questions,
‘What is the meaning of Golgotha?”’ and Who was the
founder of University College—”

The Departments of Physics
and Psychology ought to combine and invent a machine to
take the place of examinations.
A sort of automatic weighing
machine. Students would step
on the scales, turning on an
electric current by doing so,
and a dial would show the
saturation point in tsay; mathematics, to three places of decimals. A pointing attachment
would emit a slip of paper with
marks and standing. Or the
brain might be X-rayed for the
solid facts lodged therein. Or
something might be done with
wireless, or etheric waves. There
ought to be possibilities on psycho analysis.

My compliments to B. Lebasi! He cannot be alone in
his view of realities. It needs
no prophet to predict that the
next decade will see fewer students at Dalhousie, fewer professors on the staff, fewer cars
parked behind the Library, fewer jobs for graduates of all
descriptions, no matter how well
qualified. Perhaps it is just
as well to let the dwellers in the
cloister dream their dreams. The
awakening will come soon
enough.

Steevie Leacock came into his
classroom the other morning
and found a student sitting on
the small of his back with his
feet on the top of the desk before
him. Leacock, said, ‘‘Put your
feet down, I want to see your
face.”” Sheepishly the student
complied. Then Leacock said,
“Put them back.”

PRO ARCHIA,

ley” »
bet eae 8s es

    
   
 

Scanning Our
Contemporaries.

 

‘That. the universe is the
product of a mind similar to
that of man and that life is
merely the expression of this
mind through the medium of
matter’ was one of the newer
and startling theories propagated by a prominent biologist at
McGill during an address ‘On
The Origin of Life,”’ In spite
of its fantastic properties this
conception has an advantage over all others in that it wholly
reconciles religious beliefs. The
substance of the lecture was as
follows. Until quite recently it
was believed generally that life
is an act of special creation,
that it could rise spontaneously.
The works of Spallanzani, however, firmly disproved the theory
of biogensis, and spontaneous
generation began to be seriously
doubted. But some experimenters still seriously support this
Theory. With the old theory
apparently overthrown new ones
began to appear. Lord Kelvin
advanced the idea that life was
brought to this earth from another planet. The disadvantage
of this theory is that it does not
bring us any closer to the origin
of Life, but merely removes it
to another sphere and so beyond
human observation. Still another theory exists namely that
certain atoms and molecules
collided resulting in the indefinable protoplasm.

But it is difficult to believe
that such a perfectly organized
substance as the basis of all life
was the product of mere chance.
One of the more recent theories
outlined by Benjamin Moore
rests on the fact that energy
and matter are mutually interconvertible and treats the evolution of protoplasm as merely an
advanced state in the evolution
of matter. The first appearance
of life was dependent on the
ability for colloids (minute insoluable particles) to exist in
abundance, since protoplasm is
itself a type of colloid. Once
such conditions were brought
about it was only necessary to
find some colloid which cain use
the sun’s rays to produce chemical energy. The material which
does this at the present time is
chlorophyll. But this substance
is complex and could not have
been suddenly produced as the
first photosynthetic material.

In the search for a simpler
compound it was found that
seleniums and other substances
when affected by light and saturated with CO| produced formaldehyde. This is also the
first product of photosynthesis
in plants by means of chlorophyll
In this theory the origin of life
is considered with the origin
of the earth and the evolution
of life is traced through by
gradual steps with the evolution
of matter. Because of its simplicity and logical sequence it is
the most generally accepted.

The Students Congress Against War, with Canadian delegates in attendance, raised its
voice in protest recently against
military training for students at
colleges and universities throughout North America. The speakers denounced maintenance of
reserve officers training corps
on campuses and a resolution
was presented to the six hundred
delegates with an opportunity.
to vote for the abolition of
them. Thus.iron heeling those
who say we must have peace
even if we have to fight for it.

= +

 

We take extraordinary pleasure
im announcing that the Post of
Complaint Editor has been awarded to Gracie Allen’s lost brother.
Those wishing to complain of
items appearing in these columns
are requested to call BBd676 between 12 p. m. and 8 a.m.

-——_——_s--oa__ —_..

Class ’33 Notice—There will
be an important. meeting of
Class 383 in the Arts Building,
next Tuesday at 12 o'clock. All
members are requested to attend.

 

x

February Ist, 1988 —

| Annes Labiuntur

“The Dalhousie
Gazette a Half
Century Ago’’

—

 

To the sacred memory of
singing in Dalhousie’s Halls.
The deceased, while strong
and vigorous, was cut off in
the prime of life by a murderous blow delivered with
all too fatal effect by the
Hymnal Committee of 1885.

 

What has become of our
Glee Club? Is the atmosphere
of the new college uncongenial
to this society? It is no second
thought that informs us that
it is our old college songs we
miss. Surely we are not going
to give up this pastime along
with other time-honored, though
less enjoyable ‘‘customs”!

 

“Ora et Labora” is translated
by a Freshman, ‘‘‘Praying is
laborious.”

“The Bishop doesn’t wish to
be again pointed out in this
column. He thinks it is getting
too common.” (And fifty years
later Bishop Higgins thinks the
same thing—Hd. Note).

“The charge of immorality so
often laid against the University
student is unfortunately not
| without its victims to point to,
as a proof to that statement,
and more than one parent has
just cause to mourn over his
child’s downward course ap.
parently begun during his college course.”

“It is now an open secret that
the Board of Governors held a
meeting some time ago.

 

nee

‘““G.—Bros. & Co., leave the
servant girls, etc. alone.» This
notice, sirs, is final.

A certain city undertaker
has his eye on some of our
hopeless grinds’; he sets them

down for sure gain, and is
patiently waiting till Exams.
are Over.

“In the present age when the
surpassing value of education is
universally recognized, it is of
great importance, that the best
methods of educating the individual be taken. Young men
aaah are little apt to distinguish
between those bits of information which may go to make up
the learned man, and that solid
knowledge which alone makes
the educated man........ As long
as professors will continue to
set papers where the emphasis
is laid on small points, so long
will the student lumber his
memory with countless isolated
facts and impair his vigour.
To a mind thus crammed with
trifling minutiae, original tho’t
is impossible,”

YES OR NO?

With the season more
half gone let us stop and consider
the record of Tiger teams for
the seasons gone. Have the
teams themselves been satisfied
with their accomplishments, if
not, why? Have the students
who go to the games been satished, if not, why? The answer
seems to be that Dal is not
turning out teams that a college |
of this size and enrollment should.

Is this due to the coaches?
No} for it is impossible for the
men who now coach Tiger teams
to spend as much time on the
teams as they wish to for the
simple reason that most of the
coaches are business men and
have other work to do.

Is it due to the material?
Again, no, for the members of
the Dal squads usually have to
work to make a team.

To the writer the only sane,
reasonable, and logical answer is
that Dalhousie needs a PROFESSIONAL COACH. To the
opponents of this idea, and there
are many, I will ask them to look
at the other Maritime colleges
and see what a coach can do and —
has done, with the enrollment |
some of the other colleges have, 
1-3

 

a
<i _
sy

am z .
i
jt

ves |

fe ee
Mes Bt
——- | Zi s
\ re te” fel .>
— ‘ :

     
 
   
   

ents’ Forum.

   
   
  
  
  
  
  
    
  
  
   
  
 
  
  
  
   
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
   
 
  
   
    
   
    
    
   
  
   
   
  
  
 
  
   
 
 
 
   
  
 
  
 
     
  
 
  
  
 
 
   
   
 
 
  
  
   
    
 
 
      
      
 
 

 
  

~
_

a9,
<a
s
.
.

| The Batter

    
   
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
    
    
  
   
   
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
  

rts u gre : _ Dalhousie Gazette.
presentation of the case ior g Sis
e envokes tnis reply. We advise | Dear Sir:— —

It seems a bit late in the term to
begin in urging revision in an almost
tomary, in a renly to stick to the dormant Glee Club, yet now is the
rms of the original argument, ana to| time to consider suggestions and steps
t tempt to refute them. His disap-|if it is going to exist in more than name
 proval is not enough. If he is able | next year.

to prove the existence of intelligence,] Speaking from first hand knowledge

s we previously defined it, among the }of the ditticulties attendant the proajority of the co-eds of Dalhousie |duction of one of the two shows this
{ year, I would point out two things

then his point is won; otherwise he is] yea
_ ‘beating about the bush.’ : which touch me as urgently necessary.
-_ It would be well to define the mean-]A permanent stage crew who wil be
ing” of the anti-feminist league for}on hand, not merely on the night of
- _Bgbert’s benefit. In this case, the}the presentation, but at the dress
—_ Jeague is only against women in the|rehearsa] so that they will know when
intellectual sense, it admits the neces-]to move the furniture, change scenery,
sity of women for a “‘red blooded man.’’}etc., noiselessly and quickly.
-‘We will agree with Egbert for the} Secondly that it be arranged for a
purpose of this argument, that ‘a little} student electrician attached to Glee
knowledge is a dangerous thing’ but}Club who also can be on hand at
‘it is our belief that ignorance is even|rehearsals. _
more dangerous. Awoman whoenters] It would be an excellent plan also
~ > ‘the career of motherhood without ajto elect a play-reading- committee
- -knowledge and comprehension of die-}who would make it their business to
_- tetics, child psychology and physiology have on hand a number of plays,
js, in the opinion of Bertrand Russeil,|skits, etc., suitable to the gifts and
Po nd. Ge We is, Dr. John B. Watson,|limitations of the Glee Club, ~
Dr. Marie Stopes, Dr. Schmanlhauser,] And Mr. Editor, can’t something be
Bernard Shaw, Dr. Alfred Adler, etc.,J]done and done quickly about this
__ etc,, committing a crime against society | ‘‘no-ink’’ edict in the Library? Can't
and particularly against the children.|somebody get the Students’ Council
ss Of: course, Egbert will reject this} to grant it enough to provide a bottle
__-_ @pinion of the world’s great thinkers] of ink always at the desk, and lighten
because his research in the biographies}the labors of those harrassed souls
the great men of the past fails to| who are halfway through a late theme
and find their pens gone dry?

to remember (if he ever knew it)
rimary tenet of rebuttal that it is

~ ot any knowledge of these subjects
on the part of their mothers. We are
inclined to the view that these men
succeeded in spite of their training and
not because of it. It is the belief of
scientific thinkers of today that more
great men would materialize if parents
me .' unde and appreciated modern
Pe scientific truths. ree : .
\ a Egbert affirms with childish ignorance ‘that all the world follows the
example of a few in every phase of
» fife.’ ‘It is our belief that in psychol
Thanking you for your space.
JAY.

_
_

The Editor,
The Dalhousie Gazette.

Dear Sir:—

Something which plays a_ great
part in the social life at quite a few
‘co-educational universities of any note
throughout this continent, but which
is saaly lacking at Dalhousie—as no
doubt the girls at Shireff Hall have
noticed—is a ‘“‘Date Bureau.”

Just allow your powers of imagaination to drift a little—to the confines
of a girl’s room, And, after all, the
following should not be hard to picture, for isit not a common occurrence—

It is Saturday night. A gir, let us
call her Del for convenience, is sitting
alone in her dreary abode, Yes, |
repeat, dreary, for any maiden’s room
may be so called when it is lacking

ogy, physiology, dietetics, economics
and retigion, to mention a few phases,
of life, all the world does not follow
| the “opinion of the few intelligent,
educated, scientific specialists. If Eg_ bert realized the prevalence and per-—— gistency of ‘‘mores’’ in society and one
fundamental tenet of democracy—the
# rule of the majority, he would not
assert such flagrant imbecilities.
We wonder if Egbert realizes that
there are only a few original thinkers
-- jn a generation and that this is an age
of speci: ization in which we~ must
- aceept the truths, that unprejudiced

  

   

6 tific investigators arrive at in|in male company. At least, so it is
o - il fields outaide. our own. It is}preached to the far recesses of the

| our opinion that the stimulus required Jearth. Tom hasn't. called all week,

   
       

  

for the formation of so-called original | nor, for that matter, has Dick or Harry.
eae a ek pene aie opinions At any rate, they haven’t asked for a

of the. great thi | 1 date for this evening. What to do?
them in the light of present conditions| Read a book? Aw, rats! ;
he Reeth ourown personal experiences. The| Since it’s not considered “just the
way may bring us nearer truth which|thing’’ by the ardent followers of
is a more desirable thing than mere|Emily Post (so they tell me) for a
"|. “originality. . oe member of the “opposite sex’’ to hail
i gee g Egbert is 2 reactionary who might} the first e1igible maie who comes aiong
be classed with Gandhi and G, K.|the street when she is in want o
Chesterton if he showed the least|manly company, how is the co-ed
___ glinmer of intelligence. to get a needed escort? The answer
. lies right here. By means of a ‘‘Date

ASPIRING PRESIDENT.

     
    
        
      
          
     
    
   
 
     
   
  
 

ers and discussing

   

   

2
7.

well versed with the workings and
functions of such an organization, it
is one which provides dates for lonely
she’s. In this way, all the girl need
do is ‘phone the person in charge,
giving the qualifications she expects
from the fe.zow she wants as an escort,
and he is sent to her residence ‘“‘pronto”’.

  
 

{| Get Your
| Moneys Worth!

Lane
oe
er
:

   
    
  
 

lesser sex; his innate chivalrous] disaster hath befallen your ranks

tellthe professor, what he had

  
  
   

Pr,

SE Math TE ae ge PERE” lB
MO ae skh is. ant

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE _ De rel aan eae, Page ‘Threé

Wed Seiccad Wack
of Bunc

—
—

 

~

Whiskey Jake

The average Dalhousian is
crossing the campus. What a
fine chap indeed; with what
pleasure must his professors gaze
upon him, those stupid dolts in] 1. And it came to pass on
whose company he perforce]a certain day a great wailing
spends much of his time. Re-]arose in the land of Dal and
mark that slouching, jailbirdish| the people were filled with constride. How attractively indivi-|sternation and said one unto
dual. His shirt—so characteris-|}the other, what means this
tic of his intelligent disregard for} great sound of anguish and sorconvention. Why change it-|row in our land; and the report
Wait until the Board of Health}thereof was heard saying, lo,
condemns it, as it did the shirt]/there is much wailing in the
he wore last term. Sure. Note/fortress of Shee-Reff-Yawl.
the jaw, how fine. With what] 2. And messengers were distechnique can he waggle it in| patched hastily unto the fortress
courteous insolence and bore-|by the sea and they came unto
dom while in class. Again con-|the dwellers of Shee-Refi-Yawl
sider his mental regard of the}and-said to them, what great

 

 
  
   
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
   
 
  

 

Shoot in your entries for
the big

TURRET CIGARETTE
HOCKEY CONTEST

Enter now and often because
the more estimates you send
in the better chance you have
of winning.

Chapter Ten.

  
   
    
  
    
 
   
  
    
   
   

OQ women of Dal that ye weep
and moan?

3. Then said the dwellers unto the messengers, verily we
shall speak. And there arose
the subjects of the Princess
Kekeeyen, year the Mahrtzes
and Krandeeyalls and those of
Kenyeeztun tribe and Dawte
of the Vernunne familee, and

; : _| Loherna of Makklowd who dwelt
__ It's none of our business, and) once in Capebrett, and she of
it's just out of sheer curiosity! Reehead who is called Merryee
that we ask if anyone has ob-|4nq also Et-Yill who seeks the
served whether or not the apple/ secrets of Histol with the beof Mrs. Higgins’ eye takes the) inners in Med and many more
proverbial sack along with him) and cried with one voice, Food,
on his Sunday afternoon strolls?| 6,54, give us food else we die.
But perhaps young Edouardo} 4. ‘Behold our emaciated bodjust closes his eyes and imagines) je; knew naught but the bitterit's Greta Garbo. Wonder if) jess of Hehyash for many yeais.
Greta ever closes her eyes and|Therefore we cried unto the
imagines it’s Higgins? Youleditors of the Gaz, alas the
can't tell—those straggling, for-|tiehyash has seeped into our
lorn, outcroppings of adolescence} yery souls and we beseech you,
that he wheedled out of his say within the Kolumnz of the
upper lip were making bim look) G4,, Behold the inhabitants of
more like John Gilbert every|Shee-Refi-Yawl are starving unday. One of these days Ed|;, death for the Hehyash has
will take out a nice girl by mis-| ¢eped into their souls; and they
take, and then he'll get hbis|qiq and verily the plague was
eyes closed for him. eer tee.

5. But woe unto us it has
: appeared again and with it has
,_ Recently it was suggested to ade the teaser: Beeheti
the Board of Governors that) nq we cried beseechingly unto
they put the petnochrats at the! })eeyiksin who formerly gave
Hall on their honour and abolish) jo5q unto them who sail the
supervision and matrons. The| Rreetyish navy but who. now
governors got all steamed up at}jives at the fortress “Alas we
merely imagining such a thing} are starving” But he answered
(that’s all right—many a good]... “Get ye hence.”
tune’s been had from an old} 6 Yor he said unto us, befiddle). And vetoed it. Or at|/hold the food is good that I
least their wives did. place before ye. For they of
the navy gave praise unto me;
why should it not please the
_ The other Sunday night at the] inhabitants of Shee-Reff-Yawl,
Halla young tabby cat all dress-| yea, verily, why should it not be
ed up in a scarf was pursued | go?
by the morality squad, and| 7, Therefore we went in bitbroke up one of those beautiful] terness to our abodes and emptiyoung love affairs, for Shirreft’s|ness in our mouths and we
primmest looking Sophmore| dreamed of the flesh-pots in our
councillor couldn’t call a dis-}homes; and there was pilfering

treatment of them—a true gentleman.

THOUSANDS OF DOLLARS IN CASH PRIZES

The student who could not

been muttering under his breath
because he was just. talking to
himself, and had not been listening.

Full information is shown on the red and white

ENTRY FORMS OBTAINABLE FROM, YOUR DEALER

—

Mail your entries to
Turret Cigarette Hockey Contests
P. O..5Box 2500, Montreal, P. Q.

 

 

Gozz in the geem that ye may
be strong in battle. And the
people went.

14. And victory came unto
the Toryeez and Patyillow was
made the Preemyer of the land
of law. Woe unto the people
that Patyillow should direct their
destinies and the son of Frayzher
should tell them what is good
and bad.

 

MEN
ONLY

realize how easy it is to
leave the wrong impression.
Particular men do not lay
themselves open to harsh
criticism by wearing soiled
laundry. Dare you run the
risk of offending when for
a few cents you can appear
immaculate by sending
your work to the

Halifax Steam
Laundry

L-2300
May We Serve You?

Chapter 11.

1. And there is a tribe of
warriors in the land of Dal and
these belong to the Seeyoteesee.

2. And it came to pass that
a great hue and cry arose in the
land and many asked the question what need have we of the
men of the Seeyoteesee, yea the
Heegenz and the Staylins and
Lorrwaze and many others of
this warlike tribe.

3. And many sent missives
to the Kolemnz of the Gaz,
saying, behold we are against
the Seeyoteesee for we are peaceful and seek not war; why
should we breed the seeds otf
hate into our people; and behold
the air was fanned with many
words.

 

 

 

 
  
  
 
 
   

 
        
           

 

Thus the co-ed is sure of a perfect (To be continued).
evening’s ertertainment in just the
way she desires to spend it—for after
aul, she is the one who is supplying the
necessary funds. (Did I hear someone
say, ‘‘Ah, there’s the catch?’’),

And may I add in closing that a
good slogan for the ‘‘Bureau’’ would
be, ‘‘Felsows To Fit The Pocket!’’

PRINCE ROMANOFF II.

armament conference quick en-|of parcels in our tents. Thereough to dodge thepus sy. fore we murmur and there fore

Sasol do we wail.
8. And it came to pass after

N. F. C. U. S. SPONSORS| the messengers went away that
GIRLS’ DEBATING TEAM.|the word came this time unto
the ears of the noble Hekktor,

For the first time the National| Who is the Doyen of the men ol
Federation of Canadian Univer-| State in the land and who dwells
sity Students has sponsored a far apart from the land but who
girls’ debating team. In the| 4s served the people faithfully
past few years boys teams have|for many years, for behold was
been sent to debate with various|it not he and the learned Be-Nie

Canadian universities, but this|°! Ruzzyell who built and kept
the territory of Law for

fil The very latest in cooking
| Ide vices are used here, giving you
-Bhigher food values in every dish.

pe
| Green Lantern

a _ 409 Barrington St.

  
   
   
   
 
 

 

 

 

 
 

 
  
   
   
    
     
    
    
     
    
    

Delta Gamma
Meets

BIRKS=

Fraternities and Sororities may
not always buy their PINS in
Canada but CHAPTER GUARDS
are not so specified. A recent
quotation by Birks disclosed a
saving Of 25%.

  
 

  
 

Delta Gamma held the first
meeting of the post-Christmas
term at Shirreff Hall last Thursday evening. Dorothy Red
   
  
   
 
   
     
   
   
 
   

   
   
   
 

|| MacLeod, Balcom, ||| Basketball & Dance

May we quote on your

 

     
  
 

: Limited | year it was decided to send|UP aE oe stan} mond, the president, presided. :
| THURSDAY, FEB. 2nd. }/gitls’ teams, There is a team eee aS pe 1aVC) The resignation of Patricia Cann, mer Sees
| Beas ai AT DAL GYM composed of two girls coming oa = ine rene’s ane’ PF! the second vice-president, and vt
~ DRUGGIST _ [II z155-m. detve. Kings, inter. |Jand the University of Wester| 9- And. the message went| Rice Cutp® was repeetiully
ead | 8.15 Dal vs, Mount A, Seni Poe t unto Deeyiksin saying, the er Se ee Sere ;
nie 8-45 p.m. Dal vs, Mount A, Senior j/Ontario to debate here in the|OU* |! ae > ore “laccepted and Aileen Meagher, Henry Birks & Sons
9-11.30 Dancing Maritimes. While they are here| "habitants must not sulter fur-" Vho was a member of the Wom- Limited

ther, and there was great rejoicing in the fortress of Shee
 

Yale Brody’s Orchestra

ADMISSION, 25c.

DIAMOND MERCHANTS
Halifax, N. S.

en’s Track Team which represented Canada at the Olympic)
Games in Los Angeles was elected to the office. The president
announced that the executive
proposed that Delta Gamma
hold a tea in Shirreff Hall on
February 10; this suggestion was
adopted. It was impossible to
make any definite announce
a team consisting of*a girl from
Dalhousie and Acadia is going 2
to McGill, Toronto and Western | Refl-Yawl and there was praise
Universities to debate on the) Unto the respected Doyen of the
subjects “That Radio Broad-|!andcasting does more harm than|. 10. And the people of the
good” and “That Canada is fortress seized upon Izarlee of
over-governed.”’ Miss Betty the Loherway tribe who haunts

March has been chosen from|the curridors of the fortress and
Dalhousie and Miss Margaret offered him up as a peace offer
¢

|| HALIFAX and BEDFORD

i ome

 

| : 4 | Halifax College
| Conservatory of Music


 

 
 
         
    
  

UPPER AND LOWER
SCHOOL
Household Science: Teacher's
and Dietitian’s Certificate.

fi) Music in all Branches. Teacher's Certificate. Graduation Diploma. |f| Leonard from Acadia. They|™8- ... ments with regard to the Delta
a Licentiate or Bachelor of Music, Dalhousie University. will leave here on February 2nd 11, These are the doings of] Gamma Dance as it was neces
MR. HARRY DEAN

Director of Conservatory the people of Dal. sary to obtain permission from

for Montreal where they will :
12, And the warriors of the|the Students Council to hold it

debate the affirmative of the ‘
second of the aforesaid resolu-|Bask are preparing for battle/in one of the hotels.

    
    
   
        
      
   

i iss E. FLORENCE BLACKWOOD, B.A.,
; ree _ Principal

 

= ne narapeaaeranesy - . — nents tions with McGill University.}and the men have chosen a .

IOVA SCOTIA TECHNICAL COLLEGE || Then to Toronto where they will|leader unto themselves, Zamee,| After the business was conPah: it ia OFFERS ___ | ‘||uphold the negative of the first}of the Feyer-Stine tribe who|¢luded Professor Burns Martin
> ~ENGINEERING COURSES resolution. The last place where|lives with’ the men of Med.|}gave a most interesting address

The deal of Quality

they go is Western University|}And Ralf of Ellyeez is advisor| comparing the life of the women

| CIVIL ELECTRICAL, MECHANICAL AND MINING _ | /after which they will return to}unto the men. prides Dieta Sree

Vrite or call for that Miss March is to have this|my people come not to hear the} usual hour of refreshments and
ares Serer |opportunity and wish her and|men of science. Come I pray}dancing was enjoyed after which

|Miss Leonard every success. |of ye and give ear to the son of| the meeting broke up,

£1“, eae Rane eenase : ar Halifax, arriving here about F . _ | cliffe. HALIFAX, N.S
vied, ota bck Bek lirica Stake atthe Vadis Exceri ; ig here about Feb-) 13. And the king sent mis- ; peers
a Pec $i, x Ber ear. Tetityties scholarshiphot $75.00 eaeh. ruary 13th. We are very glad|sives saying, Lo I regret that| Following the program, the

fe Ere SEM RON, Pres.

 

a a ye
dP tT
Sa 5 ee? y,
i oe
4q

P* hs,
uy he x —

      

 

 
Part 1.

B. QO. Isner.
Dan Wallace.

ing,

the Bo.
FORM

to attend.

officers this year. —

of, the parades.
ne Signed,

 

*,

a

With

tion each year.

centre of the province.

 

 

inspectors and teachers.

ee “eat aoe a ——:
a ae | tee PS Seog Ne. ar
eS ae ee ; .

ee
4 ea
eh?

ig ae a | nee!
Seo ta) ts, PR ee Le fee ho
Te es ae ae ;
wy . Reet. ae
+ a ~ = es
ae Orders
— A‘, i 5 1
er ae
Rice) _ COMPANY ORDERS.

ao eeetoe Medien
Date, Jan. 30,- 1933. |

weapon training; lectures at 8
. for candidates for both ‘‘A’’ and “Bb
Certificates; and at 9 p. m, drill ir
the Dalhousie Gymnasium,

3. Dress.—For the rest of the year,
will parade IN FULL UNI
er ee Monday to Wednesday
| ff SALLY EILERS
ees: With BEN LYON in
| |] “Hat Check Girl”
Best's - Thursday to Seturdey
They Just Had To

Get Married

SLIM SUMMERVILLE |
| ZASU PITTS

 
   

1. Orderly Officer for the week
commencing Jan. 30, will be 2/Lt.
Next for duty 2/Lt.

2. Training Parade.—‘ A” Com
, will parade at the Arts Buildfig. Wed: Feb. 1, at 7.30 p. m. for

» ADs
i 2 hy

4, Annual Meeting.—The annual
meeting of all the Officers of the Bn.
~ will be held in Room 3, Arts Bldg.
at 8 p. m., Wes., Feb. 10. Officers of
both ‘‘A” and “B’”’ Coys are expected

5, Examinations.—The written examinations for both ‘A’ and “B
Certificates will be held on the 7th
“and 8th of March, The practica:
examinations will be held approximately three weeks before
be arnounced soon. é
should note that each must pass in
the practical part before being allowed to try the written exams.
dance at every parade from now on
is ESSENTIAL if candidates expect
to attain the high standard which is
being required by the examining

ate to
Candidates

Atten
a 6. Banquet,—Members of the unit
oe should remember that to attend the
banquet at the end of the year, each
of must have attended at least 50%

Edward B. Higgins, 2/Lt.,
Zi. Ce "A" Coy.

 

 

ce — r =
co

——————
re or cal a, beg
Apes. ; ¥

re? >
+.

cv . = Vir sta y
; j oe A af
See eee me rhe,
ay et: aT pe Pe
: * | oi
ts, ” \ j

ein

ne areata

 

Only a small crowd of supporters saw the Tigers lose a
heartbreaking game to the Y
Saturday night. Those who
weren't at the Class Party were

/where?

- Mandelstan, in his last two
games, has showed he possesses
great possibilities, but has spoiled his performances by dribbling
too much and slow breaking.

The defeat of the two Dalhousie teams, Saturday night,
has caused a four cornered tie
in the Senior league and a fivecornered tie in the Intermediate
league. The leagues promise to
be exciting as the playoffs approach.

 

 

Does the fact that the Tigers
won their home game against
the Reds and lost their away
game against the Y, at the Y.
mean that Dal are going to win
their home games and lose their
away games? Can the Tigers
repeat their win against the
Reds in the Y Gym?

 

The boys who wield the little
bats played a 5-all draw with
the Waegwoltic Wednesday
night. Green, McClellan, Gosse
and Schwarzapel were the Dal
team with Green winning both
his singles matches and with
McClellan Winning a doubles
match.

In the McCurdy Cup Badminton matches Dal lost to the
Military Club 18-8. Breaking
even in the ladies’ singles, men’s
singles and men’s doubles the
Dal team was outclassed completely in the ladies’ and mixed
doubles; winning only two out
of a possible nine: Considering
the inexperience of the Dal
team the showing of the team
was decidedly surprising and
Dal may yet win the league.

T. J. WALLACE

SIGHT SPECIALIST
Y.M.C.A. Bldg.

If You Want To See Well
See Wallace.’’

 

 

 

PROVINCE OF NOVA SCOTIA

Department of Education

wad

The administration of Education is centralized at the Education Office,
Cheapside, Halifax, N.S.

INSPECTION

The province is divided into 14 inspectorates.
of Clare and Argyle are in charge of a bi-lingual inspector, as are also those
of Richmond and Inverness South. There are an Inspector of High School's
a Director of Rural Education Extension with a staff of helping teachers and
an Inspector of Mechanic and Domestic Science.

-NORMAL COLLEGE

The bi-lingual districts

The Provincial Normal College is situated at Truro, the geographical
About 350 teachers-in-training attend this instituThe three provincial universities offer courses in Education,
qualifying for a license, after graduation with degree.

CENTRAL PROFESSIONAL LIBRARY
At the Education Office is a library of professional books for the use of

These books cover all phases of education and are
extensively used by the teaching profession of the Province.

SUMMER SCHOOL

The Nova Scotia Summer School is held annually during July and
August at Halifax and offers a wide choice of professional and cultural
courses for teachers, students of education and others,

| composed of university professors and other outstanding instructors.

The Faculty is

SCHOOL BOOK BUREAU

A central bureau for the distribution of the prescribed school texts is
maintained at the Education Office.

ii: RECENT PROGRESS IN EDUCATION

ey 3 Adequate pensions on retirement for teachers, inspectors and Normal
Bech College professors, This should interest University students.
oy a Increased Government Grants to teachers.
at

_ Increased Grants to weak sections.

Conveyance of pupils in sparsely settled districts has been encouraged.

+ Increased expenditure for rural education extension.

~ =~ ' aed as = . . . . .

“2 | Correspondence courses are now provided for teachers in practice and
a _ | also for pupils in remote and unorganized territory, both free of cost.

 

Congratulations to Ralph Ells
and the Tigérs on their showing
Thursday and Saturday nights.
Though defeated in their last
game the Tigers can still, and
probably will, win the league.

ae ee

TIGERS vs MT. ALLISON
8.15 p. m.

Gym. Thursday Night

The Interfaculty Wrestling
meet will be held Saturday,
Feb. 8th. All faculties should
be represented.

Those showing the most promise will comprise a _ wrestling
team to oppose the Halifax
Y.M.C.A. in early March.

Only those who take part in
this coming meet will be considered for places on the University team.

See Mr. Stirling for further
particulars:

Smarting from a severe defeat
last Saturday night, the King’s
basketball team played furiously
on Thursday and downed their
previous victors, St. Johns, by
a score of 34-15. King’s had
the edge throughout and they
showed more of the form that
is expected of them this season.

 

Dal lost an exhibition hockey
game to Acadia, at Wolfville,
Saturday night by a score of 4-1.
‘Despite slushy ice the game was
keen and interesting. Ellis scored on Bent’s rebound while
Lockhart, Lawrence, Sanford
and McLean scored for Acadia.

With MacDonald and Sullivan teaming up well to score
17 of their teams 22 points the
Cubs defeated the Reds Intermediates in a ragged league
game last Thursday night. The
inability of the Wanderers to
sink their long shots or to get
rebounds from the Dal guards
was the main reason that Dal
won. The intermediates plainly
showed the lack of practice and
team work, but individually appeared strong and should make
a creditable showing in the City
League.

The 1933 page on the history
of Interclass Basketball started
with a meeting in Mr. Stirling’s
office, Thursday noon. Eight
teams signified their intentions
of winning the league, with the
last year’s champions, the Profs,
out of the league the other teams
are out for the Title.

All the faculties and Theology
are represented, with Dentistry
the unknown quantity and therefore dangerous. The league
will be played on Monday nighis
starting at SEVEN SHARP,
with both small gyms being
used. Since the league may
conflict in some way with the
Badminton teams games, the
teams playing must be ready to
play at the appointed time.

_ Ce 
THE WEEK IN SPORT.

Thursday—4-6—Girls’ Fencing Class,
; Stage.

5-6—Boys’ P. T.. Class
Lower Gym.

7.80—Boxing and Wrestling, Lower Gym.

8.15—Dal. vs. Mount Allison, Gym,

Friday—4-6—Boxing and Wrestling.

Saturday—10-12—Teachers’ Training
Course, Stage,

2,.30—Badminton, mixed
doubles, Gym.

2.30—Gymnastics Class,
stage.

4.00—Men’s Fencing Claes

Lower Gym.
7.00—City Basketball League at the Y Gym.

Monday—3-5—Teachers’
Course, Stage,
7.30—Interclass Basketball
League,
7 i Practice, Lower

Training

ym.
8.00—Ping Pong, Dal vs
Waeg. at Waeg.

Tuesday—4-6—Boxing and Wrestling.
5-6—Boys’ P. T. Class,
Lower Gym.
8.15—Militia vs Dal.

Wednesday—11-1—Teachers’ Training
Course, Stage.
4-6—Boxing and Wrest.
ling, Lower Gym.

    
   
  
  
   
  
  
  

 

ae Ma a Pe Pye ee} pe tr Se Te
Paes ink . i £ ye at 7 i “5 ay,
=e *~ meet ~
= ee

 

News Briers

Delta Sigma Pi: The members of the Commerce Fraternity held a formal dance last
evening at the Lord Nelson
Hotel. About 35 couples, including Dr. A. Stanley MacKenzie and Professor and Mrs. J. M.
MacDonald were present. Joe
Mills furnished the music in his
usual sprightly’’ manner.

Inspection Trip: For the
purpose of gaining a practical
insight into how such matters
are conducted, groups of Med
students have recently visited
various of the city stores to
observe the methods used to
preserve the cold meats. They
plan to visit next those planis
in which meat is prepared for
consumption.

Senior Class Party: On Friday, Feb. 10th the seniors will
hold a class party at the Lord
Nelson Hotel. Jerry Naugler’s
orchestra will supply the music,
with dancing from eight-thirty
to one o'clock. Tickets may be
obtained by members of the
graduating class and by anyone
who has been identified with
it in the past.

Fireside Club: Edward B.
Higgins was elected President
of the newly formed St. Andrew’s
Young People’s Fireside Club.
Mr. Higgins is a well-known
figure on the Dal campus, and
worthy of the position, Other
Dal students are members of the
executive of the Club—Ross
Morrison, Charles Clarke, Donald Mahon, and West Bedwin.
Mr. Mahon also holds anothe:
executive position—he was elected publicity agent of his Sunday
School Class.

The Haliburton and Faculty
Rooms of the King’s Residence
were the setting for a most
enjoyable dance, on Tuesday,
January 24th. Roused to terpsichorean efforts by the lively
music of Miss Hagerty and her
orchestra, the students showed
their enthusiasm by repeatedly
clapping for encores. Under a
ceiling of blue and white stream
ers, with dimmed lights and
plenty of comfortable chairs,
the scene was most charming—
and the dance was delightful
from beginning to end.

——

Sigma Theta Pi: Sigma
Theta Pi held an informal dance,
Wednesday, January 25th, at
the home of one of its members,
Merle Purtill, 24 Bloomingdale
Terrace. Mr. Jerry Naugler, of
Hagarty’s orchestra, supplied excellent music,

Plant Visited:—The Commerce Fraternity, Delta) Sigma
Pi, yesterday afternoon visited
the plant of Consumer’s Cordage
Limited, in Dartmouth. This
is one of a series of visits to industrial plants. Such concerns
as Moirs, Imperial Oil, Brandram Henderson, Atlantic Sugar,
and Nova Scotia Gas works will
be visited within the course of
the next few weeks.

The Dalhousie

University Store

Announces a
10%
reduction on all loose
leaf ring books sold

during the month of
February.

 

 

ft he ee Sse

AMPUS
OMMENT

It appeats that while Observer was away over the week-end
several articles were published
in this column which did not
meet the approval of certain
students. We were very much
annoyed when we saw what
was published, but after all no
one must take this column too
seriously. It is nothing. but
good clean (?) fun, You may
have laughed because some joke
was told about the other fellow
but he who laughs first laughs
first or vice versa, and the
louder the laugh the funnier it
isn’t.

 

Here is a story about a
sophmure by the name of MacMillan from Pine Hill. It appears that he went to the ferry
dock one day with the intention
of taking three or four days off
for a trip to Dartmouth. He
asked the ticket office what
the charge was and they told
him 14c. return. He thought
there must be a week-end excursion to be able to give such
cheap rates. He entered the
ferry with the rest of the horses,
took off his coat and hat expecting to be on the ferry at
least a day. Much to his surprise the boat docked at Dartmouth in 10 minutes. Another
voyage was over and also a much
wiser MacMillan.

 

 

HALIFAX TAXI CO.
B.7376

At your
Service

 

 

 

NICKERSON & CREASE
Limited
Wholesale Fruit and Produce
574-578 Barrington St.
HALIFAX, N. S.

 

 

 

The Man’s
Shoe

Styled for men’s comfort
and approval

 

The shoes for this season
are priced for real
Economy

$5.00
$6.00
$7.00

pros. SHOES

GREEN LANTERN BLDG.
409 Barrington St.

 

JOHN TOBIN & Co,

LIMITED

Wholesale Grocers

Tea Merchants

HALIFAX, CANADA

February 1st, 1988

Dear Observer :—

To you this letter may seem
out of place, but knowing your
affect on the weaker sex, [ want
your advice.

I love two girls, naturally
half-heartedly, but can’t get any
encouragement from either. My
friends advised me to try and
make myself known in athletics,
as every woman is a hero worshipper at heart. I can't concentrate on bridge without a
club and hate ping pong, so
[ tried badminton, but could
not beat ‘Doc’’ Byrne, so I
gave that up. He advised me
to become a professional swimmer. It’s a good stunt but I
can’t swim. I have worn shoulder pads. but they chafe me.
Then I tried going without a
hat like Turner and Murray
Ryan, but I caught a cold. I
grew a moustache like Frankie
Newman, bought a _ suit like
Bob McFarlane’s, tried Harry
Herman’s position No. 2, developed a smile like Don Stewart’s,
learnt to sing like ‘‘Bing’’ Seely
but all to no avail. ‘I even
bought a Ford with an American
license but even that was a
flop.

Hoping you will be able to
help me in this great problem
that is facing me, and that
these two girls will in time be
able to look up to me and say,
‘What a Man.”

Captain Dicey Burp Zinck,
R.C. A.

Notes of Interest in General.

Mary Reid was presented with
a beautiful frat pin by our
friend “Chuck’’ Lorway.

Melville Rose will receive donations for the watch that the
English If Class are buying
Professor Bennett.

Doug Seely in Comm. Class:
“Why is a stove company like
a hat mfg. concern?”

O'Brien: “I suppose* because
they make lids for stoves.”

Seely & O’Brien both leave

the rooms.
i

-
 

—— -— - -—
~

 

 ——— a
ay ™ Wr Ce = .
tat ok eb f
" j
a
oad avian - : =
nN eee

Wed. Thur. Fri.

CLARK GABLE
“‘No Man of Her Own’’

with CAROLE LOMBARD
and DOROTHY MACKAILL

 

 

Sat. Mon. Tues.

‘The Island of Lost Souls’

with CHARLES LAUGHTON,
BELA LUGOSI — RICHARD
ARLEN and the PANTHER
WOMAN

 

 

 

 

WINNERS FROMTHE

START
For 60 years the REACH Trade
Mark on Sporting Goods has been
a mark of perfection. No matter
what your favorite sport may be
we can supply you with equipment
that will help you play the game
with the best that’s in you.

CRAGG BROS CO.,

Limited
Hardware and Sporting Goods
HALIFAX, N. S.

 

 

 

GARRICK

“GRAND HOTEL’

Friday and Saturday

“If I Had a Million’

WITH SEVEN STARS

 

Monday and Tuesday

WILL ROGERS

—jn—

“Too Busy to Work”

 

2 i, Be: ‘ ——— 2. i a ~ , =
ee ee Soa ' =f

|
|

 

ee

nT
aia

 

 
