  
   
   
   

    
    
     
 
  
  

Inspection Tour.
>» Last Friday the fourth year
_ -Medical Students made an in-spection of the water supply
service of Halifax. There will
be another trip next Friday when
the students will visit the res_ taurants and food supply places.

V5)

J

3
7 . »
baa Syl we

Law Banquet Postponed.
Owing to the death of Professor John MacQuarrie’s father,
the law banquet previously slated for Saturday last, will be
indefinitely postponed.

 

aes Watch for notices.

= aes Si or M. J - ;
«Dr. Faleoner will give an
 jilustrated lecture on Art in
Fort Massey Church Hall, Sunday, Jan. 28, 8.30 p.m. S.C.M.
a auspices. —

ae Effective Speaking Club.

ae Last Thursday evening the
____ Effective Speaking Club held its

first meeting since the holidays.
Professor Reid led a discussion
on the principle of Reference to
Experience. The secretary was
instructed to assign to two members the duty of giving at the

Pee WEA

a

‘

ra

er

¥

‘

ee

       
  

  

eae) Gee Oe ON g
-—s mext ~meeting, short speeches
us a | wiih will be discussed critically.

__ Mr. John Fisher was chairman.
4 ie : i hee.

e

  

“On Tuesday of last week one
of the best meetings of the term
took place. Movie films of surgical interest were shown and
these were greatly appreciated
' by all present. Case histories

were then read by John Budd
and Jack McGowan, fifth year

internes. Fred Whitehead was
appointed chairman of the com‘mittee in charge of the Med
| Banquet.

Prof. Copp Elected.

ey Professor W. P. Copp, head
- — of the department of Engineering, was elected president of the
Association of Professional Engineers of Nova Scotia at the
annual meeting in the Nova
Scotia Technical College building Friday.

: si Kings C. GS. ig C
_ ~-—-s- The King’s College Company
of the C. O. T. C. has been pre~~ sented with a beautiful cup by
©. « the Bursar, Professor R. L.
|. Nixon. The cup is for competition between the platoons of
the Company and the award is
to be made on the basis of attendance and general drill effic> jency.

"Tht Sociology Club

in
he

=
*

>

b
E
;

t

 

second meeting of the year on
_ January 18 at 430 p. m. in
~  ~—Room 8. The president, Ken

Sullivan, presided and after the
_—s meeting ~Mr. Wong Gee gave

= an address on, ‘China: . It’s
» . Social Life, Yesterday and To' day.” He discussed the relative
size of China to the rest of the

a

a

erm
ef

world, also housing conditions,
_ social customs, schools and col
=
a

-_ swered any questions asked by
-_themembers. There were about

thirty present.

a ——
eyo
D s ‘
—

 

a: ‘Ye artists of Dalhousie
That wield a wicked pen
__ _The Year Book needs assistance,

 

We ask your aid again.
has just begun

 
   
 
 
    
  
 
   
 
 
 
   
   
   
   
 
 
   

The Sociology Club held its

  

legesin China, The speaker ain-|

 

' Dalhousie songs and they ended

——

 

THE LATE DR. E. V. HO

Dalhousie Mourns
Passing of Noted
Surgeon

GAN

 

Dalhousians were greatly
shocked to hear of the death of
Dr. E. Vincent Hogan, former
dean of the Med. School,’ on
Friday last. In him there passes
away a man whose life was
closely linked with that of Dalheusie. For many years Dr.
Hogan was a member of the
Med faculty, as Professor — of
Surgery. Later he became
Dean of the School and no little
credit is due him for the enviable standing which the Dalhousie Medical School holds today. It was only recently that,
urged by his approaching illness,
he was compelled to resign this
position. At the same time he
resigned as a member of the
Senate of Dalhousie. Dr. Hogan
went cheerfully everywhere -and
a comparatively short life he filled
to the brim with deeds. When
the Great War broke out he responded immediately to his
country’s call and went overseas with the Dalhousie Hospital
Unit, as second, and later first
in command. He attained the
rank of Lieutenant-Colonel and
because of his great bravery and
service he was decorated with
the C. B. E. Dr. Hogan’s ability as a surgeon was of the highest rank, but not for this alone
will he be remembered. All who
came in touch with him, students and fellow-teachers alike,
honor him for his friendly and
sympathetic personality.

In losing Dr. Hogan Dalhousie
has lost one of those to whom
she owes her fame.

 

Dawson Club

The Dawson Geology Club
held a social evening at the home
of Miss Dennis, 45 Coburg Rd.,
on Saturday evening. —

Mr. Dove, a medical student,
told the club of his voyages to

his uncle Mr. Bartlett. Much
interest was evidenced in the
numerous stories he told concerning the Eskimos and their
peculiar habits.

After Mr. Dove was finished
and Prof? Douglas had addressed
a few words the meeting was

—_———— a SO,

the Arctic in 1931 and 32 with}

thrown open for discussion and]

many and varied were the questions asked of the famous explorer, Mr. Dove.

After a very enjoyable supper

was served everyone gathered

around the Piano and the next
half hour was spent in singing

u

 

 

 

HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA, JANUARY 25th, 19338.

 

Library Receives) Brilliant Lecture

Valuable Gift of |Delivered b

Books

ae

Dalhousie University has re-| le

ceived a most valuable presentation from Dr. W. Inglis Morse.
Dr. Morse is a Nova Scotian
whose home is now in- Cambridge, Mass., and who spends
his summers in Paradise, N. S.
He has been a generous donor to
Acadia, where the W. Inglis
Morse Collection occupies a special room in the University Library; he has also offered prizes

of one hundred dollars each to}s

the undergraduates of Acadia
and Dalhousie Universities for
the best essay written on ‘‘Dead
versus Living Books’’. Notice
of this competition has already
been made in the Gageite.

Dr. Morses presentation includes eight mahogany cabinet
book-cases, beautiful because of
their absolute simplicity, and
appropriate settings for the treasures that belong in them. There
are treasures in the collection
that in years to come will be
invaluable; an autographed copy
of Robert Bridge's ‘‘Testameni
of Beauty” of which there are only
fifty similar copies in the world;
Chaucer, represented in facsimile
of the first collected edition 1532,
from the copy in the British

Museum, also a limited edition;}

‘Flowers and Folk-Lore from Far
Korea”’ by Florence Huddlestone
Crane, an exquisite piece of work
consisting of the original handpaintings of flowers that bloom
in Korea from January to December; some very valuable early
maps and a letter dated at
Halifax, May 1758 from General
Wolfe. The collection also includes some excellent busts.

With the addition of a complete new set of the Oxford Dicluonary, those are the most valuable gems in the collection not
forgetting the exquisitely bound
books written by the donor himself; some of these are slim
leather books of travel done in
dull reds, others are hand-tooled
and illustrated with beautiful
photographs. “‘The Land of the
New Adventure’’ is bound in green
hand-tooled leather while ‘Grave
Stones of Acadie” is specially
bound in old rose leather by
Douglas Cockerell. To lovers
of the beautiful these books are
a delight.

There are also many books in
the collection that will appeal
to lovers of the artistic; books
about painting, architecture,

y Prof.
Henderson

President Carleton W. Stany_ introduced the speaker,
Professor G. H. Henderson, bv
referring to his past research
work:

The subject of the lecture
was “Radium and Haloes.” Describing the characteristics of
radium and radio-active substances, the speaker outlined the
development by which scientists
have attained a knowledge of the
intricate properties possessed biy
uch substances. ‘These properties the speaker explained were
due to rays emitted by the
radium and these rays have been
classified ds alpha, beta and
gamma rays. The alpha rays
reach the amazing speed of
12,000 miles a second. One of
the first to measure this veolocity
satisfactorily was Dr. A. Stanley
MacKenzie. Professor Henderson
spoke of the use of radium in
cancer treatment and referred to

the valuable assistance given|!2vited by the National Union

by the Government of the Pro
vince in providing radium for
the Victoria General Hospital.
The second part of the lecture

dealt with haloes’ and the speaker made public for the first
time his discoveries of a new
method for measurin
sity of alpha rays.

The speaker paid a very high
tribute to Mr. Bateson of Sydney Mines, whose research work
last year resulted in discoveries
which are to be published: by
the Royal Society of London,
England.

¢ the den.

 

International

Club Forum

A new discussion group has
been formed in the University
under the leadership of Dr.
MacKay to study the application of) Christian principles to
world affairs. _ Membership is
open to all interested; the group
meets Saturdays at noon in
Prof. Bentiett’s office.

At the first meeting an essay
of) Sir William James’ on ‘The
Moral Value of War’ was discussed. For the next meeting
E. B. Rogers is to prepare a
paper on the subject “‘Why Do
Men Fight.” A quality membership is hoped for, and those
interested will benefit by gaining
a broad outlook on world affairs
and better acquaintanceship

lthousie University

 

No. 12

RS TRIUMPHANT OVER KINGS, 2-1

Slow Playing
Downs Score

—_—_-——_
SS

The game started slow with
‘Kings dominating the play as
far as territory goes, but on the
breaks Cooke, Bryant and Ellis,
gave the King’s net-minder
plenty to worry about with
the low drives. Bryant brightened a listless first period with
a lovely goal on a perfect pass,
from Cooke. The Dal defence
missed a lot of King’s men in
the middle ‘‘chucker’ and the
pair behind the blue line looked
pretty shaky at times. They
seemed to be playing the Kings’
boys cheap. F. Cole, King’s
defence star broke through the
Tiger defence to tie the score 1-1.
Oyler was changing his forward
lines often but the boys failed to
show the punch in their play that
they did against St. Mary’s.
In the middle of the third period
Dal started to settle down and
play hockey. Ellis finally got
in a hard shot outside the defence which beat Pratt and
scored the winning goal. The
game was Clean with only three
penalties being doled out to
each team. The Cole brothers
were standouts in the King’s
lineup while the Cooke, Bryant,
Ellis line looked best to the Dal
supporters. Bent played nice
hockey but is inclined to crowd
Brennan on his side and leave
his man uncovered, but during
the third he made a number
of fine rushes and on several
occasions was within an ace of
scoring. Reg Beazley refereed.

MR. SAMUEL FAIRSTEIN
Who has been elected captain of
this years varsity Basketball team.

   
    

 

Debating Team
To Go To
England

The N. F. C..U. S. has been

of Students of England and
Wales to send a two-man debating team to England in the
fall of 1983. The team will sail
from Canada about October Ist
and, after making a debating
tour of the English and Welsh
universities and possibly also the
Scotch, will leave for Canada
about December 10th.

The officers of the N.F.C.U.S.
have decided to choose one
member of this team from the
Maritime universities and one
from the Western Canadian.
Dalhousie has been invited to
submit the name of one candidate for this team. The selection will be confined to men who

 

are now enrolled at the Univer- Newman Club

sity (his session. (Students now

in their graduating year are Show Well

eligible). :
Nominations for the team Received

must be in by February 15th,
1938.

Girls’ Debating
Team Selected

A debate which will take
place early in February has been
arranged between Dalhousie and
a team from Ontario sponsored
by the National Federation of
Canadian University Students.
This team consists of two members, Miss Isabel Jordan, from
the University of Toronto, and
Miss Marjorie Rean from the
University of Western Ontario.

 

The Newman Club presented
an evening of splendid entertainment on Tuesday, Jan. 24
under the auspices of the Dalhousie Glee Club in the Gymnasium. There was a good variety of numbers and although
the quality of presentation might
perhaps have been better under
more favourable acoustics the
whole show was enthusiastically
received by a well represented
audience. The performance was
under the able direction of Mr.
J. P. Connolly, who is to be given
much credit for his efforts since

(Continued on page 4) with international relations.

Coming Events

Wed. Jan. 25—7.45 p.m. Intercollegiate Debating Trials—
Munroe Room.
‘ = —7.30 p.m. Ping Pong—Dalhousie vs. Waegwoltic (North W. Arm).
= a —7.30 p.m. C.O.T.C. Parade.
Th. Jan. 26—8.00 p.m. Intermediates vs. Wanderers Ina termediates—at Dal.
ff “ —9.00 p.m. Seniors vs. Wanderers—at Dal.
Fri. - Jan. 27—8.15 p.m. University lecture College Gymnasium—FProf. E. R. Adair, McGill
—“Civil War in American History.”
Sat. Jan. 28—12.00 a.m. “International Club’’

Sun. Jan. 29—8.30 p.m. “Students hour of song,” Fort
Massey Church.
Tues. Jan. 31—8.00 p.m. Bennett Shield Debate. Juniors

 
   
  

vs. Seniors. Subject—‘‘Dominion
Gov’t. should trade with Russia.”

The team which will represent
Dalhousie was chosen from seven
contestants on Monday evening
by Professor Ralph. W. Ells,
Mr. Joseph MacManus and Mr.
Donald Grant, vice-president of
the N. F. C. U.S,

The team selected by
the judges consisted of Miss
Ruth Crandall (leader) and Miss
Lilian Fraser. All the contestants spoke very well and the
showing was most creditable.

———-s-oo—_____—__
FIRST BENNETT SHIELD
DEBATE.

Juniors v Seniors.
Dot Vernon Irene Walker
Don Archibald Flint Cahan

Subject:—Resolved -that the
Dominion Govt. should enter
into trade agreements with Russia.
Munroe Room—Tues., Jan.

31, 8 p. m.

better results could hardly be
expected from such an inexperienced cast.

The two one act plays, “The
Point of View’ and ‘Brothers
in Arms”’ which constituted the
major part of the programme
were written by Muriel Denison of Toronto University and
have already been produced at
Hart House very successfully.

The cast of ‘The Point of
View”’ included :—

Mrs. Macbeth. .Mary Duggan. 
Mr. Macbeth. . George Murphy.

Rubin. .........Victor Oland.

Cripps—a burglar..Dave Redmond.

 

The cast of “Brothers

in
Arms’”’ included :—

Mrs. Brown. . Pauline Corrigan.
Mr. Brown. ...Murray Ryan.
Sid............Bob Donahue,
Colnariiey aint aves oe Clem Egan,

 
  
   
   

| RS a January 25th, 1938
| @d Astra

(Talkies playing in Halifax for the
week of Jan. 25-31, 1933).

The thrilling tale of a chain gang
how |fugikive with Paul Mini taking the
‘leading role, opens on Wednesday at
{the Capitol Theatre. This picture is

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

COMMEN

Waste-Paper
Native Rights v. Profits.

 

 

   

  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

Scanning Our
Contemporaries.

The
T Basket

‘“unconsidered trifles”’

 

  
   
  

   

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

a ooo The agitation for wearing aca
demic gowns recurs periodically.
It always follows the same course,

It is interesting to note,
many members of the staffs of
college publications go out into

The English Liberals

   

Managing Editor.

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

 
  
 

pape ee dito . : : : ; ;not just another prison story, with
HAROLD 1, EGAD DAVID R. ALLAN discovery of a serious gap in the} (1. World and obtain places of} perhapsa different twists Mini’s charHAROLD J, EGAN . ’ wats ;
age Ds ors . . 9602, academic life, the gown restored responsibility and honour in|acterization of an innocent man,
_ $s SF . Associates. CH for a short time, and worn with fields greatly different from cage a ae eee enc
| Bee ede pce enthusiasm, until ees Journalism. This state of at- gang, his escape, betrayal, recapture
Gee oye SAM MARGOLIAN Native Rights v. Profits. of the reform leave co oe fairs may seem surprising but it] anc second successful break for liberty,
Sie Se se J. L. DUBINSKY, B.A. To the ordinary political ob- Then the gown is forgotten for detracts in no way from the|is vividly realistic. . The producers
Oe ire NEWSSTAFF, Women’s eww Raitr.|PE°VEF, there seems to be some|a decade or so value of belonging to a. college|have painted a. gripping. depiction. o
a‘ OMN FISHER oor RUTH CRANDALL inconsistency between the con- hi € th ag staff. The, McGill Daily also) joi, gings, made with the help of
poe a | B. 9746, ferring of knighthood on Mr. J.| |The history of the gown in| tnakes an appeal to the under-|exprison inmates. Glenda Farrell and
Sie 9 Associates. ; H. Harris, largely for his mert- this college is a. e ‘old graduates for better expression} Helen es take ace feats vale
es Borden Stoddard Here Rae se . torious championship of native It would ie t i se a i of interest in the University. Per ae ee ye artes
Robert Batt arg. Montg rights in Kenya, and the bill by Scottish scar et gown, aS W One of the main features of the y Sherid: agai ocean ge .
Robert Dorman aresy Ee reese se teats t St. Andrew’s was sported]: and directed by Merwy y

F E. B. Rogers Marion Morton which the Administration of}@t >t /\n , F ieee Daily, we are told, is to act as| At the same theatre, starting on
iy Dorothy Gray Kenya is seeking to destroy the By en Se eh pee the medium of student opinion. See ae Bow in “Call Her

| igh iven to those natives} +\cace “*°1 On looking through passed issues} »avage = will be seen.
-ed Sporls. rights Erved sumably ea M Agnes Ayres, famous leading
= MURRAY LLOY GLADYS M. JOST. |by the Native Lands Trust Or- of ee ee however, we see little to warrant haere sete © ieetao's oe
‘ B. 2092. B. 9746. dinance in 1930. The reason is ete Te ena aS ive vs fen this statement. The corres-|‘*The Sheik’? will make a personal
Associate Associate not far to seek. Gold areas|fax ho id Dalhous tae pondence column, maintained] appearance at the Orpheus. Theatre,
; BUSINESS STAFF re tainly gowns were established mee eal oa Ayres will appear daily on the Orpheus
Business Manager " Asst, Business Manager eee ee by law at our Renaissance in of a critical and expository stage in a highly diverting cycle of
DONALD A MAHON CHARLES CLARKE, B. A.| cepted wholeheartedly the prin- 1363 D BEG ae" ere nick nature, is largely neglected. At Songs, Comedy and Georgeous Gowns.
s iB, 1826. B. 3134. ciple that the interests of the we a a a he? Pew bbe the beginning of the term there] Besides this there will be the usual
, M. J. Bezanson ; African natives must be para- Hearne eadur ee aes aca.| Was considerable activity among ee ee eid.
Proof Editor mount, and that if those se Heme ee ine a aished by those who write letters to the Niecy Brian and Lew Cody is the talkie
ERIC D. MURRAY and the interests of immigrant aoe Pit : eects al (but oe Daily; but most of these Were|for this date. This will be followed
George H. Murphy races should conflict, the former | "°: ee i interpretations and objections}on Monday by “The Bitter Tea of
? should il. The Ordinance dated) occasion, a delinquent lj ed at stat t ade in| General Yen’’ with Nils Asther and

| prevail. e in . directed at statements m me } ? ri
Ae / : 1 id. th it rts of the appeared before the Senate, put " | ns and were not in Barbara Stanwyck taking the leading
es a Editorial office B. 5676 also said, that if par, down a quarter, with the Porn other columns an e rdleg. | This ie a thrilling picture of

a | ren allocated for native use
should be expropriated for public purposes, the Administration

 

% Are 3 DORMITORIES FOR DALHOUSIE. oid. ceeds an cauivalent
aa ; amount of land elsewhere; and
Lee The greatest need Dalhousie has is for dormitories. There arelthat in any event due notice
; = very fine educational buildings; there isa most modern gymnasium;|had to be given to the Native
there is an admirably handsome building, wherein, it is rumoured, Lands Boards. The proposal
= ai are kept the archives of something or other. But there is no place now is to give the native comfor the students, and after all, they are a part of the university.) pensation for the land which he
“ é At the present time, mentally, physically, and visually, Dalhousie] will be compelled to give up
_ js just an overgrown high school. The students are citizens of| for the purpose of developing
ere Halifax, and not members of the College. They boast a far bettet|the mineral resources of the
-__ acquaintjanceship with the dives of Hollis Street and the programs) country.’ If the proposed amof the cinemas than they do with the gymnasium and the subject|endment to the Ordinance is
eee ‘ _ of the next lecture. 4 . carried, it will be a betrayal of
Pabie. | . Britain’s pledged word and of
pina Dormitories would end all this, bring the students together, get her obligation as trustees of
them acquainted with one another, give them a higher standard of | native interests.

living, get them commonly interested in the college, its advantages

and activities, and would give them a common background, a com- ete oy

mon meeting place, and lastly dormitory life, whichis of inestimable

   

value and without which a college career devolves into a mere perusal | The Technocrats.

ge eae Rie hoe ke- The Technocrats have suc
*. |.

2 et Pat. ae > . | {ceeded in at least one thing,—
-~~—- Take Dalhousians off Hollis Street and put them on the|they have made their name
y ; familiar to many. Whether

\

campus. — ;
Sevens fu they have succeeded in making
eae SH | REVISE OUR GLEE CLUB. it intelligible to any, is another
i ine | question. Readers who are famDuring the past week a great deal of favorable comment has|iliar with the writings of herebeen heard concerning ‘‘Cinderella’’, the latest production of the] tical British economists will not
_ Theatre Arts Guild. So much were the spéctators impressed that|find anything new in_ their
several have since asked why Dalhousie should not have a similar|scheme of a country ruled by
organization. ; technical engineering experts,
and the discarding of the price
‘as The suggestion has its merits. Although every year sees an|system. It is but fair, however,
re, agitation for more and better Glee Club shows, this one finds such| to these experts with their cure
a proceeding justified. So far only three Glee Club Shows have| for all our economic ills to add
~ been produced; of these, one was a short entertainment put on at|that the increasing importance
the Freshman get-together, one was put on by Class ’36, and the| which technological unemploythird, which took place Tuesday night, was the annual Newman|ment is likely to play in the
‘Club show. Only one of these productions was conceived and|future in highly industrialised
directed by the Glee Club executive, and that one was hastily | countries is becoming widely ad| concocted, to say the least. In fairness to the executive, it must| mitted. The report of President
a ae be said that they labour under many difficulties; while all students| Hoover’s Research Committee
ee are nominally members of the Glee Club, the actual work is done| with its slogan of “national
by a few, and those who do nothing whatever complain most em-| economic planning,’’ recognizes
phatically when the quality and quantity of Glee Club shows takes| this fact. | We already have
a drop. many ‘‘cracies” and the addition
of another will not cause any
If, however, the Glee Club were re-organized along the lines of | STeat amount of discomfort. But
the Theatre Arts Guild this situation would be remedied. Associa-|it is not safe to assume that we
tions of this sort have been most successful at McGill and Toronto.| have yet reached the end of our
The reason is, of course, that all the members have a personal] tether. Lunocracy is still in the
interest in the productions and want to make them as successful as| fing:
_ possible; they not only do the actual acting, but the costuming
and stage-setting as well; sometimes, as was the case with “Cinder- : ;
ella” the script is written by one of the members. Moreover, shows| /4¢ English Liberals.
produced by such organizations are of a considerably higher type} What is the prospect for Britthan those which usually grace the stage of the Dalhousie gymna-|ish Liberalism? This is a quessium. tion which,,due to the wide. spread belief that Liberalism has
<1 Dalhousie certainly has the requisite talent in its ranks. If|had its day and is gradually
___ the organization were formed as suggested the benefits would be| falling into the state of atrophy
many. The participants would gain valuable experience; the| Which follows upon senile decay
aes Mr. Ramsay
'_ ment much to be desired; and last, but far from least, if the students] Muir, chairman of the National
i _ did not like the shows they would have only themselves to blame;| Liberal Federation since 1931
____they would know where the remedy lay and the life of a Glee Club | €xamines this question with great
As ptesident would be a much easier one in consequence. ability in the January Foreign
a Affairs. pas out that in
et a” every part of the country there
DALHOUSIE REVIEW. are thousands of doubted Liter.
als. What is lacking is leadership, cooperation within the party, and the reaction against the
spirit of international embitterment, which is bound to come.
The Liberal party, split into

OE See ee ee, eee ; three distinct sections—the Libee ublished letters of Joseph Howe are especially interesting. Dr.|eral Nationals, the followers of

-_ Nichols’s Ethics of Loafing Around is humourous i
ee eS SPI8CS OF LOC Ting Arete | y philosophical.|Sir Herbert Samuel, and th
Pes corte in faite We Pn sed We a followers of Mr. hinwl: Canin
eerae > PLUCIS, ny. a ai » Lite product of research in| must forget its dissension d
ondon. saa ee 2 | Eke appropriate essays and articles, | produce ecue and bona faa:
apie a e Current Events and New Books departments, com- ership; and it must above all
pletes_ : Bap ee eee and well-balanced issue of the Review, have an international outlook.

  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
    
  
    
  
   
     
  
    
    
    
    
  
   

4

'_ productions would be of a considerably higher calibre, an improve-|iS_ important.

a

ae : .

Pte?

__~____ The January number of the Dalhousie Review, which appear

F aa ‘recently, worthily upholds the high reputation which that ani

ad cal has earned in literary circles. An article on the Ottawa Econo
“ Mae Conference; Dr. MacMechan's description of his observations

ee while sight-seeing in Naples, Pavia and Pompeii; and the Honorable Chief Justice Chisholm’s presentation of some hitherto un
™ ore a
5 eS,

    
 
   
  
  
 

that it was the very last coin
he owned. What could any
Senate do, that had hearts of
flesh, not stone, but remit the
fine and abolish the law making
gowns compulsory?

The late Professor MacGregor
said that the last time the College wore gowns as a body was
at Professor DeMille’s funeral,
in February, 1880. But few of
the students had mortar-boards,
and the gowns looked absurd
with ‘‘pork-pie’’ hats. He also
held that mortar-boards could
not be worn in Nova Scotia
winters; but that was before the
generation arose that wears no
hat, summer, or winter.

It may surprise the advocates
of gowns to~ learn that the
students of Oxford do not wear
gowns when they take their
degrees. The only sumptuary
laws regulating their costume
at Convocation are first, they
must ot wear brown boots; and,
secondly they must wear a white
tie. It may .further surprise
Dalhousians to learn that on
this high festival, Oxford men
did not appear as notably careful dressers. The best turned
out graduates were two brothers
from Dalhousie.

THE NEW OMAR.

A Book of verses underneath the
bough,
Provided that the verses do
not scan,
A loaf of bread, a jug of wine and
Thou,
Short-haired, all angles, looking like a man.

But let the wine be unfermented,
pale,
Of chemicals compounded,
God knows how,
This were indeed the Prophets’
Paradise,
QO Paradise were Wilderness

enow.
G. K. Chesterton.

PRO ARCHIA.

‘Glee Club

If the Glee Club is to keep a
permanent place on the campus,
it must serve as an outlet for
those who like to take part in
glee singing and as a place-of
entertainment for those who
merely wish to be entertained.
We hope that in the not too far,
distant future the Glee Club
will make spontaneous renditions
of “The Old Grey Mare”’ resepctable again.

DR. GOSSE SPEAKS.

 

 

The value of health study and
preventive medicine were explained to the student body,
yesterday, by Dr. N. H. Gosse,
Surgeon, Victoria General Hospital.

 

a true sense, opinion. About
the campus there must be many
things which attract favorable
or unfavorable attention, yet it
takes a heated argument on
some important topic to elicit
letters from the student body.
Thus “student opinion is never

known because it is never eX-|

pressed.

College Glee Clubs throughout
Canada have been most active of
late. The Glee Club of U. B. C.
has presented six shows, Toronto
four, and McGill has given five
two act plays all since Oct. 31.
This news immediately puts us
in a thoughtful mood and we
ponder whether our own Dal
Glee Club, until this year most
alive, is to be naught but a
faint sweet dream.

It has long been a pleasant
fiction of those who really know
college life, scenario writers and
the like—to show ‘‘the boys”
standing around the Piano with
arms over each others shoulders.
With tears rolling down their
cheeks they operate .on some of
the old fa'vorites usually in close
harmony. Co-educattion, if there
are many things to be said for it;
has been the ruin of glee singing.
Thirty years ago students could
manage to amuse themselves for
an evening without the interference of women and the result
was a number of choruses for
male voices. Now we have lost
our independence. We _ invite
women everywhere, being no
longer able to entertain ourselves. In these mixed gatherings the men are far too dignified

to burst into song and the girls
cannot be persuaded to chime

To this

in with baritone voices.
depth has sunk glee singing.

 

On Russia

Lord Passfield, who is better
known as Sidney Webb, is arousing a great deal of interest on
account of the series of articles
written by him for the Curren:
History. These articles deal
with various phases of the life
of Russia today as they appear
to an outstanding Socialist and
investigator on the spot. His
criticism is favorable to the
present great experiment; and
his is not an opinion to be lightly
brushed aside. Lenin’s conception of liberty was that
its preciousness warranted its
rationing and this view is conveniently placed under the general concept of a planned social
order. Whatever one’s own
opinion may be regarding the
relationship which exists between
the writer s factual findings and
the true theory of social welfare
English and American readers
will not be slow in recognizing
the extraordinary insight which
is shown into the concrete workings of Russian institutions.

 
   
 
 
   
  
   
 
  
  

forbidden emotions breaking against
the barrier that love could not battle
down.

The Garrick Theatre presents Percy
Hutchinson, in ‘‘The Green Pack’’ by
Edgar Wallace on Wed. and Thurs.,
with an entire English Company ditect
from Wyndham’'s Theatre. This will
xe the first production of Edgar Wallace’s last and best play on the continent of America. Swift action, neat
twists of plot, quick, natural dialogue
and a thrill or two are the qualities
that make this production_so successful.
On Fri. and Sat. at the same theatre
Mr. and Mrs. Martin Johnson are
playing in Congorilla, an incomparable
spectacle of terrifying drama, stark
suspense, unparalleled adventure and
grim comedy, positively authentic and
made entirely right in the African
jungle. Following this picture an
Mon. and Tue. comes ‘‘Cabin in the
Cotton’’ with Richard Barthelmess as
the leading actor.

—— ~

 

Council Passes

Year Book
Budget

The Students’ Council held
their regular meeting last Thursday evening. The most important item on the agenda was the
Year Book Budget which had
been submitted by the Manager,
Mr. James Vooght, Com. ’33.
After a short debate the budget
was passed without amendment
and Mr. Vooght authorized to
begin work on the publication.
The Council was very high in
their praise of the budget both
in the manner in which it was
drawn up dnd the economies
affected therein.

The secretary reported that
eventually he had secured a
satisfactory budget from Sodales.
It was passed in due order. The
Basketball Manager, Mr. Don
Stewart submitted a budget of
$118 for trips to Acadia an
Mount Allison, the budget being accepted by the Council.
A plan for holding dances in
the Dalhousie Gymnasium after
Basketball Games was also submitted and met with the approval of the meeting.

Miss Jost asked the permission
of the Council to hold the Delta
Gamma Dance downtown. A
motion was passed giving the
girls the right to hold their dance
at the Hotel if they wish.

The following members of the
Council were absent from the
meeting—
Kay Densmore, Lea Allanach,
John Rowley, George Thompson,
Donald Mahon.

LIBRARY HOURS.

Until further notice
the library hours are:
Monday-Friday—

8.45 a. m.-5.30 p.

7.30 p. m.-10.30 p.
Saturday— ..

8.45 a. m.-1.00 p.
Sunday— x

2.30 p. m.-5.30 p.

 

 
   
  
      
       

a
ee

, ~A
an 4 vn
ae

oe

 

tor of the Dalhousie Gazette. For instance, an anonymous, appar= a ee ently intelligent male correspondent
=~ Dear Sir:— ihe 2 oe first en of this year
{a x Py _ |that Dalhousie girls are not up to a
___, The effusions of an intellect budding | decent intellect sek standard. Thevare
~ into adolescence should be tolerated in| not reading the books he thinks they
the interest of its possible future ma-| should be reading and not talking the
_——s turity and stability. But adolescence | things they sliduld talk. One gets the
— recognizes not its youth. For the|impression from reading a letter from
benefit and further enlightenment of|/ Blank in the lth January issue.
the contemporaries of the aspiring| Words, ‘‘the kind one takes home to
president of the Dalhousie Anti-femin-| fry for supper”, names of contemporary
ist League, be it announced that Dal-| movements in pclitical thought such as

x ‘that Rudy Vallee of the depression,”
Technocracy, and title of books which
seen on the personal reading list of
Professor..........would inspire awe in
many fourth year and M. A. students,
all these does Blank usé in his urgings
for more intellectuality among women
students here. This writer likes his
,‘wimen” intellectual.

Personally, I should be bored to
death and quite discouraged with
living, if the ‘‘one and only’’ from
Shirreff Hall, out to the Green for
dinner and a show after, poured out
her soul in terms of Kant and Marx and
Technocracy.

So many men, so many tastes!

There do not prevail between the
men and women students of Dalhousie,
fortunately, the chivalries that lie behind otuitworn codes of street-car
courtesy. The way lies clear for a
reasonable spirit of give and take.

May we hope that Blank’s letter
of the 11th is not a percursor to another
Why-Do- W 0 me n-Come-to-College-IDon’t-Know-Ask-Me campaign in the
columns of the Gazette?

 
 

   

"4 =
1! 7
|

s .
ts .
mo

  

 
 
  

  

* housie Co-eds custbmarily outgrow
the habit of shedding the radiance of
their vacillating, if brilliant mentalities
upon an unappreciative world, upon
their arrival at the dignity of sopho- more. We would not discourage the
-_ worthy president of this ephemera!
m  society. We would merely indicate
to the prependerant male popultio
whose representative he is, how disinclined an adult feels for youth’s
Sy superficial judgments of the world’s
_. __ systems, and by how much we prefer
the lectures of professors to the rambling dissertations of their revolutionary

a =» charges.

 
 

 
 

  
 

  

 

        
      
    
    
    
    
        
   
     
    
   
   
     
     
       
    
    

 
 

 
 

7

Yours truly,

A TRUE DALHOUSIAN

—_—
  

Janudry 16th., 1933.

_-——s- The Editor,
» Dalhousie Gazette.

: }
Dear Sir:—
\ Tf some fool freshman, in the middle
of the post-Christmas term feeling he Just One of the Boys.
‘fad not sufficiently impressed his Dey ee
| _—__ seniors with his own originality, would
| __ don for a week of lectures green shirt,
" red tie and moccasins, he would not
| ~ be met with the cat-calls of derision
| which such a costume might call forth
at another Maritime college. Baa
oe .

mannered, though Dalhousians have

   
  
  
 

STUDENTS’ FORUM.

  

if
~~ ia
.

EDITOR S NOTE—Contribu
ae = tors to this column are requested

Combined Dance

    
 

 

AMPUS
OMMENT

d. McLeave’s new theme

Great Success

—_—

The ‘“‘biggest and best dance
of the year’ certainly justified
it’s name. It was the ‘biggest

and the best’’ The girls are}. song:
still talking about it. Such a|! fear that I shall never see

combination was  naturally| that necessary LL. B.—to the
bound to be a huge success.| tune of ‘‘Trees.’’
And why not?

As far as we could determine,
EVERYBODY was there. We| Murray McNeil
didn’t miss a single familiar] Keniston.
face. The “big shots’’ of the Prof. McNeil: I think Miss
commercial world (if there still| Keniston that you could help
is one) mingled with important | your sister Florence with her
engineers and seemed to enjoy math since she has been ill.
it. In fact, everybody had a| Martha: Now, listen Murray,
marvellous time. do you really think I could do

A word about the music, is| that?
absolutely necessary. The combination of the organ and the
orchestra was the most har-} Victor Oland certainly looked
monious thing we have ever|as if he had a strenuous evening
heard and it undoubtedly ap-|at the Commerce-Engineers Ball.
pealed to even the most un- He appeared in class the next
appreciative of music “as is.’’|day with his Tuxedo pants on.
“A Boy and a Girl were Danc-| We are pleased, of course, that
ing’ seemed to be the favorite. | he had the presence of mind to
We will venture to say that}even put them on.

Mr. Harvey Hebb will be the
recipient of much “‘fan mail’
after such a performance as his.
Kit Haggerty and her orchestra The management of the
gave the best rendition of ‘“Tiger Gazette will not be responRag’ that has ever been heard, sible for the actions, debts,
if applause means anything. The|or any other activities conmusic gets better and _ better ducted by Mr. Higgins in
each year, and this year tran- the name of the Gazette.
scended dll other years.

A novelty of last year’s ‘‘Mil
Short Dialogue between Prof.
and Martha

 

 

 
 

been named, they have an aloofness
or a fiumorous tolerance that restrains

  
 

 

lionaires Ball’’ was featured again this year with much success.

to make their letters a lattle shorter
if they desire to have them published.

Council Meeting:

 

Famous words heard at the

impetuous criticism.

Z uring the past three years, howDt. ever, an exception is to be noted in the
'____ Dalhousian’s attitude to the residents
of Shirreff Hall. Deprecatory criticisms, ranging from lowdown nastiness
to amateur attempts at satire, have
been directed in back numbers of the
___ Gazette at Dalhousie women students
by men. Prompted by masculine
‘ jealousy or masculine playfulness, these
writings are most unpleasant to read,
and on the face, bad mannered.

_ 1G. A. McDonald
| Tobacconist
_ | Complete Range of Pipes
25c. to $7.00
21 Spring Garden Road

  

  

The Gazeite is not responsible
for opinions expressed 1n_ thts
column.

  

 

  

Aue
ar

   

a

WANTED—STUDENT
OPINION.

 
 

 

 

 
 

Last term literary contributions and letters of criticism
reached the Gazette office in
small, very small numbers. Apparently Dalhousians do not
realize that they have in the
Gazette an excellent mouthpiece for college criticism and
a free field for practical literary
experience, leading possibly to
future promotion to the staff.
The Queens Journal spoke recently of college publication
work.

        
        
      
  

  

 
 

   

 

 
 
  
  

 
  
   

Get Your
Moneys Worth!

The very latest in cooking
devices are used here, giving you

MacLeod, Balcom,

Limited

DRUGGIST

    
     
        
       
          
   
   
   
       
       
     
  
 
  
   
  
   
 
   
 
    
     

   
  
 

  
  

higher food values in every dish.

THE
Green Lantern

409 Barrington St.

 

 
  

  

HALIFAX and BEDFORD

 
  
   
  

 

  
   
  
 
  

Don’t Neglect
Personai
Appearance

GAUVIN

AND

GENTZEL

Photographers to

   

/

    
   
  
  
  
   
     
  
 

Your Laundry Is
Most Important.
WE OFFER YOU
Personal Attention.

Perfect Work.
Prompt Service.

AT LOW COST

May we serve you?
Our Phone No. is

L-2300

    
    
   
  

Dalhousie University

    
   
     
 

Special Rates to

STUDENTS —

 

18 Spring Garden Rd.
Phone B.6992.

Be Halifax Steam

| Laundry

    
        
  

  

 

 

  
  
 
   

Miss Betty Cobb, as guest dan-| 0
seuse gave several snappy tap| ‘Were getting meaner every
dancing numbers. She was|day’—Counsellor Christie.
roundly applauded by one and “lt seems to me the girls are
all. not allowed many privileges aSupper was served in the main round here’’— Counsellor Camr
dining room and in the Grill|eron. —
room, a very satisfactory ar-| A discussion as to whether or
rangement. And a delightful|not the girls should be allowed
supper it was. Shirreff Hall] to hold their dances at the hotel
girls came out of the dining room this year, evoked the following
afterwards with a most con-|temark from Counsellor Connor:
tented expression on their faces, |‘ They will raise an awful stink
which speaks well for the supper. if we don't.”
The programmes were very =
cleverly done. On the outside
was a drawing of a delightfully
unkempt engineer dancing with a
a profusely perspiring millon- ‘It happened this way. The
aire. The dances were given|Liberals were meeting in one
names remniscent of the engin-|toom of the Law School and the
eering and the commercial pro- Conservatives in the Moot Court
fessions, such as “Mechanical Room. After the Liberals got
Starter’ and  ‘“Stockholders’|through, they found in the hall
Struggle.”’ a lonely looking hound. Said
Dubinsky to  Rosenblum:—
“Open the door of the Moot
Court and let the poor mutt in
with the other members of the
party.‘ Rosenblum waited for
no second bidding and led the
* Sige a aed Ieee oT. dog into the Moot Court. But
Student Health Service at | unfortunately for the well-known
Acadia,’’ was the subject of a|third year man, the Conservavery interesting address deliver-| tives had changed their meeting
pa one re eae ioe ce place to another room and the
| D DeWitt deol 4 Moot Court was being used by
ecture tr eWitt deplored), class in Commerce, held by
the prs health ee Prof. Read. We aren’t sure but
an r Poe ;
eae Mirae: vec uber ae tte Some
He declared thatthe amount he SS eee Beta ee
e It! here was Rosenblum coming with
of personal hygiene that iS! one of his relatives.
taught in the public schools 1s
very superficial.
On this account all stu-| Prof. Walker—Is Robert Mcdents entering Acadia are ob-|{ ellan present to-day?
liged to attend aseries of lectures} (C}agss—No.
on this important topic. The} prof, Walker—I forget what
eee Bee ae astae he looks like. I haven’t seen
Cc residence a ACadile 1s ; in
equipped with a hospital ward; Be Ore EE.
Baa tate wees ae bianse coe
of a doctor employed by the! last Saturday night with a young

College are, supplied free of lady whose name was not Burris.
charge to the students.

  
  
  
  

AN INCIDENT.

 

Dr. Dewitt
Lectures

 

 

 

 

SE ST tS SS eee

BIRKS=

Dance favors must be different
to win approval.

It is luck to find something
overnight for the occasion.

Early planning, as far as a

 

month ahead, will help us find
Favors of Distinction for your
Function.

The deal of Quality

HALIFAX, N. S.

>

Henry Birks & Sons

Limited
DIAMOND MERCHANTS
Halifax, N. S.

 

       
       
 
  
  

 

  

Just an old Scottish
Custom

No, they're not arguing over
the game. It's only a case of
Sandy trying to pry Mac
loose from his last Turret.
“Il no gi’ such a bonny
smoke to any impecunious
Scot, says Mac. ‘“‘But I'll
strike a bargain wi’ ye. One
lone drag for a dime, and if
it's no the mildest, smoothest,
smoke ye have ever had, I'll
gi’ ye your money back.”

SAVE THE POKER HANDS

    
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
  

 

            
 

10 for 10c.
20 for 20c.
25 for 25c.

Quality and Mildness

urret

CIGARETTES

Imperial Tobacco Company of Canada, Limited

—and in flat tins of

fifty and one hundred.

    
   

   
  
    
     
  
          
   
       
      
      
     

=—=BASKETBALL:-:

THURSDAY, January 26, at DAL GYM
7 p. m. KINGS vs. ST. JOHN, Inter.

8 p. m. DALHOUSIE vs. WANDERERS, Inter.

9 p. m. DALHOUSIE vs. WANDERERS, Senior.

 

 

SATURDAY, January 28, at Y. M. C. A.

Y. M. C. A. vs. DALHOUSIE, Inter.
N. S. TECH. vs) WANDERERS, Senior.
Y. M. C. A. vs. DALHOUSIE, Senior.

7 p. m.
8 p. m.
9 p. m.

 

Reserved 35c.

General Admission 25c.

 

 

PROVINCE OF NOVA SCOTIA

Department of Education

_ The administration of Education is centralized at the Education Office,
Cheapside, Halifax, N.S.

INSPECTION

The province is divided into 14 inspectorates. The bi-lingual districts
of Clare and Argyle are in charge of a bi-lingual inspector, as are also those
of Richmond and Inverness South. There are an Inspector of High School's
a Director of Rural Education Extension with a staff of helping teachers and
an Inspector of Mechanic and Domestic Science.

NORMAL COLLEGE
The Provincial Normal College is situated at Truro, the geographical
centre of the province. About 350 teachers-in-training attend this institution each year. ‘The three provincial universities offer courses in Education,
qualifying for a license, after graduation with degree.
CENTRAL PROFESSIONAL LIBRARY
_ At the Education Office is a library of professional books for the use of
inspectors and teachers. These books cover all phases of education and are
extensively used by the teaching profession of the Province.
SUMMER SCHOOL
The Nova Scotia Summer School is held annually during July and
August at Halifax and offers a wide choice of professional and cultural
courses for teachers, students of education and others. The Faculty is
composed of university professors and other outstanding instructors.
SCHOOL BOOK BUREAU

_A central bureau for the distribution of the prescribed school texts is
maintained at the Education Office.

RECENT PROGRESS IN EDUCATION

Adequate pensions on retirement for teachers, inspectors and Normal
College professors. This should interest University students.

Increased Government Grants to teachers.

Increased Grants to weak sections.

Conveyance of pupils in sparsely settled districts has been encouraged.
Increased expenditure for rural education extension.

Correspondence courses are now provided for teachers in practice and
also for pupils in remote and unorganized territory, both free of cost.

     
    
    
  
     
    
     
 
     
    
     
    
    
 
     
 
   
    
   
   
    
     
Oe eee eR et oy Me ee eG ewig: ot
hie? . egg 8 ee | ES = ‘3a
en ere ee Rak se
J * Ps ae : <, j > \ 3 aa, 4
= qs a eee t aia

  
   

   

 
    

a a of Prof. C. H. Mercer, a |

  
  

  
  

 

 
    
 

recently, ,
League has been formed| Although defeated, the Tigers
Hockey Team surprised, as well

with teams representing the Mili
__ tary Club, the Halifax Badmin-|as delighted, their supporters.

~ ton Club, and Dalhousie. Hon.|Losing through that old bugatrophy for annual competition.| The Tigers when they learn to

Due to the low standard of|keep their team intact wil go

play amongst the students it] far. Congratulations to the
Beka de| coach and managers.

 
   
 
   
 

“ONE tl Ee ro
oe ple was found necessary to inclu
Kings and faculty players. It : Se
ig hoped that in a few years, due} | With Medicine retaining their
to. the improving standard, Dal|Championship in Softball and
will have sufficient material to| Engineers retaining the Football
enter a students team. The| title the third major sport Hoc__ fadies especially are turning out|key finds not only these teams
in increasing numbers. This is|in the running but also the rest
particularly pleasing as the stan-|If the Interclass teams. Will
dard of Badminton, shown sd rea or Forrest win the third
ae that | title

of the other city clubs. With

=e

‘a

-. the girls has been far below

Interclass Basketball, which

| amet ee = 2 ip ; :
ss more practice and coaching the
ea eirls will be able to help Dal|should be started now, should

make a strong bid for the|produce some good and interest‘ie weceuety Cup.” | jing Basketball. Will the Profs.
The club winning the most|be able to retain their laurels
matches shall hold the cup for}or must age and wisdom (?)
one year. In the oe of a tie| give way to speed and science (?).
there shall be a play off.

Diese, ame pe ead With Tech defeating the Y

Rha te@m Saturday night and Dal
having defeated both these teams
in Exhibition games interest in
Thursday’s night game between
Dal and the Wanderers has
risen considerably. Despite
having defeated these teams
Critchley once Dal will have to play

ie - wn a
had the highest individual score peadsUD ball eer
of the evening with a 93.

—

   
   
  
 
 
    
    
  
   
  
  
  
 
 
 
  

 

SPORT BRIEFS.

In the second nights shooting
in the Senior Garrison Indoor
Rifle Shooting League, the Dal
[.-O. ‘Ts. C.. team made the
highest team score.

“a
ef
per

- Dal vs. Wanderers, Thursday
Patt | night in the Gym. Dal have an
_ The Interfaculty Basketball! excellent gym, an excellent team,
/ Mr.|but 1...y support. Will this
| office, Thursday at/year be any better than last

 

 

In hockey it is usually correct
to play the defense the entire
game unless a defense man is
penalized, then yank a forward
and put in a sub defense man.
To the writer the defence pair

  

 

   
    
 
  
  
  
  

 
   
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
    
   
 
   
 
  

BS eas J. WALLACE
SIGHT SPECIALIST.

  

Bass . ¥.M.C. A. Bidé: of Bent and Brennan should be
| “If You Want To See Well left untouched if Dal hope to

A é y R rs st ae .”, > = ay oe = —
| ss See Wallace.” =f | win hockey games. _
fet . 7 —_- 7 ke [ ot 
 

Se a. =e yr }-eh
. 5

rc a "Thursday to Saturday
a January 26-28-27 |

_ |] “Me and My Gal”

  

or Se aa eae |
rac wee e a ba aa W
= gshie-soy | ELEVEN penalties totaling

22 minutes were collected by
Dal the other night. A period is
only twenty minutes. Good
goal keeping and excellent backchecking had the game on ice
but penalties.

  

 

  

 

 
   
   
 
   
  
  
    
    
    
  
  
  
  
  
   
   
   
  
     

 

NICKERSON & CREASE
Limited
Wholesale Fruit and Produce
574-578 Barrington St.
HALIFAX, N. S.

—with—
- SPENCER TRACY
JOAN BENNETT

 

Monday to Wednesday
January 30-31 Feb. 1

|| “The Match King” |
eee Sites

WARNER WILLIAM
LILI DAMITA

 

GARRICK |

PERCY HUTGHINSON

and his London Company

 

“The Green Pack”?

Friday and Saturday
The only authentic Talking
Picture made in Africa
MR. and MRS. MARDIN
JOHNSON’S

“CONGORILLA”’

_ § Common Sense

_ 8 about COATS

9

 

 

One of the first things
to decide when you
begin to think about
buying a coat is when
and where you will
| wear it.

i
\ }

JOHN TOBIN & Co,

LIMITED

   
    
 

| For the Nova Scotian
climate this yeara..
light weight warm
coat is very practical.

 

Wholesale Grocers
Tea Merchants

en!
a ry!

 

BB ROBT. STANFORD |)

: § 8 Hollis St. Halif ax, N.S. :

   

HALIFAX, CANADA

1

| me ;

  

     

mee 7 ee mA ’ a » *
aot a -4 = &, a ts = met
~ poe tits te ek , Wa i en ee >
ee te oe ee cca > ee Se mea <e- '
ST tenpeh she ee Ss Rat. ee F 5° eee gat, gee
EES SE ee ee ee
"a *

       

VRAD OPE

#, a
a see == «

 

      

industrious people.

"ag i

ere ee rl rete on een ieee _ a

ene <i

- . , 5 = h,, 
_ DALHOUSIE GAZETTE |

 

of Bunc Disappointing
Chapter 9. This year there seems to be

some rather good raw material
1.. And the tribe of the Em-|for girls’ basketball, although
ployeez also doth dwell in the|the turnout is not as large, in
land of Dal and they are an|spite of improved conditions for
They look|playing. Due to the smaller
after the institutions of the land.|number of players the Inter2. Who knoweth not of Les-| collegiate Team was entered in
ter, father of the Moustache} the Halifax Women’s Basketball
Kloob? For is it not he who|} League?
prepareth the tables in the geem}| This does not seem to have
on those dreaded days twice|improved matters or solved the
during the year and for them| difficulties. Because of illness
who participate in the Suppes?|and poor attendance in general
3. And there is he too whom}the Dal teams have not made
we call Sykkes and he liveth|a very good showing in the
where dwelt the renowned tribe} Halifax league. It was even
of Muraye; and the lanky Wilde| necessary to default one game
who distributes the daily mis-| with the Y. W. C. A. because
sives and who wears the garb!of a shortage ot players. It
of the men of Med, yea, the |does seem as if twelve players
lab coat. These dwell in the| might be found among the numregions of Stud. ber of woman students at Dal4. But in the Forrest there|housie.
is the bearded Fry and it is} Those who have come out to
whispered of him that he know-| practices have real possibilities,
eth the secrets of the dead for} but not one can expect to learn
behold he speaks the languages|anything if they only turn out
of the Stiffes and they are varied.|about once every two weeks.
5. But John of the tribe of|Such persons gain nothing themMakklowd is beloved by the]selves from occasional practices
people of Dal and the Profess|nor do they help anybody else.
too call him brother, for he has|To gain anything at all every
dwelt in this land for many years.|player should come out to at

6. Behold there came unto|!east two or more practices a
his workshop in the shades of week if possible. Unless, there
the Forrest Arch the great Mac-|!8 4 notice to the contrary there
mech and said unto him, Behold] #"*_ practices every Tuesday at
t have relies that must be. made TAO We ms; Wednesday at 4.30
well again and lo, under the]P: ™+ and Saturday at noon.
hands of the son of Makklowd
there breathed anew the spirit Dal Loses to Mt. A.
of many things that grace the Foe aE
walls of the Arrkives Beelding,
that thou wilt see as thou comest
from the land of the Kingsmen.
For verily the Macmech loved
the land dearly and strove mightily to improve it.

7. And amongs the people of
Employeez there is a fairer
group and it is that of the
Stenoggs; but of them it is
written in the chapters that
follow.

8.. Now in the land of Law
there are two giant divisions of
people, they that are called
the Leeberalls and they that
call themselves Toryeez and of
them much has been written
in the pages of history.

Playing their first game on a
foreign court the Dal Senior
basketball team blew up high,
wide and handsome before the
fast moving, deadly shooting
Mt. A. Quintette and were
quite properly beaten 46 to 30
last Saturday night at Sackville.
N. B. in a ragged exhibition
contest.

It is hoped that this game
did Dal a lot of good. The
team appeared weak checking
the center and and the forwards
seemed inclined to lose their
heads when they were a few
points behind. Mandelstan and
O’Brien showed a little improvement over their previous form
but the rest of the team were
far below their usual standard.
However, the team has done
fairly well in its pre-season
exhibition games and_ should
make a creditable showing in
the city league which opens
Thursday night when Dal meets
their old rivals the Wanderers
at the new Dal gym.

9. Behold on a certain day
the many men of the Leeberalls
met in council -and elected a
chieftain over them, the learned
Teedee of the Makkdonald clan.

10.- And the Toryeez, they
also met in secret convocation
and raised to the leadership one
that is known as Patyillow.
For it had come to pass that
the new chieftain Patyillow had
preached the doctrines of Be-Net
into the ears of the men of law.

 

Valuable Gift

 

11. An lo, the leader Patyil- :
low now called all the inhabi- (Continued)
tants of Law and said unto ae k wee
them, gather ye hear that I may|wood-carving, music, English |
speak to ye. Behold this coun-|¢cathedrals and Italian towns

filled with delicate etchings, finely tinted photographs and reproductions of famous paintings.
There are collected letters of
Chopin and also of Sir Joshua
Reynolds; so many and so varied
are the books that it is impossible to name them or even to
attempt a separation of them
into different groups.

Two of the more outstanding
books which show the width in
the range of the collection are
Early Ruslin Architecture which
is a magnificent volume containing many intricate sketches and
photographs, and The Odyssey of
Homer a modern prose trainslation of Homer by T. E. Shaw
(Lawrence of Arabia) beautifully
bound in blue leather and just
off the press. Letters, diction
13. And it came to pass in|aries, biographies, bibliographthe dead of night that the follow-|ies, are all represented; new
ers of Patyillow, yea they of the| books are included as well as
Toryee party did seize upon|the classics.

Rozyenblum while the latter
slept and slew him and threw
his body into the sea.

tree of Kanad is nobly run and
praise be unto our party, yea
the party of the Toryeez. But
behold the people laughed in
derision at the leader Patyillow
and shouted unto him, begone
lest we tear thee apart and
there was much mockery and
sport of the Torvyee party.

12. And +he that laughed
loudest was one from the cold
regions of Capebrett and_ his
name was Rozyenblum, and he
cried, seize upon this untruthful
preacher that, we may deliver
him into the hands of the Myners of Capebrett for lo, these
are anxious to lay hands upon
him, and Patyillow was sore
afraid and plotted secretly for
the destruction of Rozyenblum.

15. Behold it shall come to

14. Behold on a later day| pass that the forces of Patyillow
when the Leeberall leader spake} will be destroyed aind the might
unto the people they gave ear|of Beel of the Jowestt tribe, he
and when he had concluded|that sitteth on the Fence but

‘they shouted in unison, all hail} casteth his lot with the Toryeez,
the wise Teedee; for the Leeber-| yea verily his might will be
all party has come to save the/also shaken and the countree
land from destruction.

will be saved.

~

_— a a, ea =e

  

 

eee

) |The Second Book] Girls’ Basketball |S.C.M.Trim Tigers

 

 

St. Mary’s won their second
game of the Intercollegiate League by turning back the Tigers
at the Forum last week 5-4.
Although on the small end of
the score the Tigers fight had
the Saints worried for the whole
game. The hopes of the twelve
supporters present were brightened considerably for if the
team can play the same hockey
all season the title should be ours.

Cole opened the scoring with
a wing shot but Grant, who
scored four of his teams five
goals, evened the score. In the
second period Cole made it 2-1
but Grant made it 2-2 on a
beautiful play. Ellis made it
3-2 for Dal while Grant made
it 3-8. Ellis and Grant each
scored to make the score 4-4.
Carroll beat Purtill with a close
in shot to make the score read
5-4 and the game was over.

Purtill played a stellar game
in the Tigers’ nets and «did
excellent work in holding the
score down. Brennan and Bent
were an excellent team and the
forwards worked well. together.
Monday:

3-5—Teachers’ Training Cour
se, Stage.

7.80—-Track and Field Team

Practice, Lower Gym.
8.00—McCurdy Cup, Dal vs
Halifax, Cogswell St. Gym.
8.00—Ping Pong, Dal vs. Y.
M. C.A., atthe Y.
Tuesday:

12.00—-Basketball Practice.

4-6—Boxing and Wrestling.
Wednesday: |

11-1—Teachers’
Course, stage.
4-6—Boxing and

Training
Wrestling.

Will all managers wishing to
announce any game, of any
importance, please send such
announcements to the Writer.
They will be used. Thank you.

 

HALIFAX TAXI CO.
B.7376

At your
Service

     

Special

STUDENT SERVICE

DRY CLEANING
PRESSING
REPAIRING

—We cail for and deliver.—

Cousins’ Limited

Master Cleaners and Dyers
507-11 RobieSt. 381 Barrington St
Telephone Lorne 2323

  

 

are

|

 

&T. MARIT

 

Made to Measure Suits
Tailored For You In The Style

ON

IMES

January 25th, 1983

C.0.T.C. Orders

COMPANY ORDERS.

Issued by th2 Oficer Commanding
Dalhousie Contingent C. O. T, C.

Station, Halifax,
Date, Jan. 23.

Part 1.

1. Orderly Officer for the week com
mencing Jan. 23, will be 2nd. Lieut
John Rowley. Next for duty 2/Lt
B. O. Isner. vag

2. Training Parade “A’’ Coy. will
parade at the Arts building on Wad..,
Jan. 25, at 8 p. m. for lectures, and
at 9p. m. at the Gym for drill,

3. Dress—Cap, tunic and belt.

vo
°

Annua! Meeting. The annual
meeting of all the Officers of the Bn.
will be held in Room 8, Arts Builaing
atsSp.m. Officers of both ‘A’’ and
“B’’ Coys are requested to attend.

Signed,
EDWARD B. HIGGINS, 2 /Lieut.
2 COA Coy.

 

The Week In

Sport

Thursday:
4-6— Girls’
Stage.
7.30—Boxing and Wrestling,
Lower Gym.
7.10—City League Basketball,
Main Gym. ,
Friday:
4-6—Boxing and
Lower Gym.
Saturday:
2.30—Badminton, mixed doubles, Gym.
10-12—Teachers’
Course, Stage.
2.30—Gymnastics Class, stage
4.00—Men's Fencing Class,
Lower Gym.
7.00—City League Basketball,
at the Y gym.

Class,

Fencing

Wrestling,

Training

 

Crook’s Fish Market

Fresh, Salted and Smoked Fish
Lobsters and Oysters in Season

228 ARGYLE ST. Phone B-7259
Halifax, N. S.

 

 

 

FROM THE

WINNERS FRomr.

For 60 years the REACH Trade
Mark on Sporting Goods hes been
a mark of perfection. No matter
what your favorite sport may be
we can supply you with equipment
that will help you play the game
with the best that’s in you.

CRAGG BROS CO.,

Limited
Hardware and Sporting Goods
HALIFAX, N. S.

   

 

       
       
         
       
     
       

You Desire

Priced at

$22.50, $30.00
AND $40.00

The figures of men that wear
EATON Made-to-Measure Suits

proof of the fine tailoring

obtainable in our Made-to Meas.
ure Department.

The advance preparation, the
careful and advantageous ‘purchasing of fabrics enables us to
offer and tailor materials of high
quality at a very moderate price.

The new fabrics now await you
and we advise your inspection
while the seclection offers the
widest choice.

FE ATON’S- Main Floor

oO

LIMITED

 
   
  
 
