4

     
     
  
   

‘

te

,
'
i.

=

a

| be
2

a
= he ¥

mot

oa ie as
' }

Bites. Sy,

a

 
   
   
   
  
 
 
   
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
     

eT k,
Re

~
md

t

melt


fs, Was
- continue on in very glowing
mer. -Ceritts.

- own system of beliefs.

Etitdns-Senior Is |
Held In Dal
_ Gymnasium

Usually when giving an ac
2 count of a Dalhousie dance, the
> ~ obvious thing to say is: “It

, 9

a huge success etc.,’’ and
But this time the procedure will be a little different.
We fully realize that the committee did all in their power to
make a success of the dance.
They procured a good orchestra,
and everyone will admit that
the music was very excellent
indeed. The food was unusually good, particularly the lobster sandwiches, and great effort
was expended to have the floor
in good condition for dancing,
and these efforts turned out
surprisingly well. The floor was
quite in the best condition for
dancing that it ever has been.
But, we being truthful souls
cannot be so blind to realities

as to say that the Junior-Senior

was a great success. It was not.
In spite of the splendid efforts
of the committee to make it one,
we can only say that they could
not achieve the impossible. And
it is undoubtedly impossible to
have a completely successful
formal dance in the gym. In
the first place, the heating system will not permit. It was a
very strange sight indeed to
watch the girls dancing around
in their evening wraps and coats.
But it was necessary. We will

guess that there were many
damsels who woke up with slight
colds the next morning. And
after all, girls don’t go to dances
to contract colds.

We have said that the food
was good and we are right, it
was. But ‘unfortunately, there
seems to be no conceivable way
of serving it properly and comfortably. It just can’t be done.
The indescribably confusion on
the stage at the close of the
supper dance was enough to
take away anyone’s enjoyment
of the good food following. I
think we have said enought on
that Subject, we shall now pass
to another equally as uncomfortable, namely the hardness of
the chairs and they certainly
are hard, most unpleasantly so.
They look so inviting ranged so
carelessly and informally along
the wall, we must say. And
another thing, this idea of no
smoking, which we know is
absolutely essential for the protection of the building but most
inconvenient when one would
like to smoke at dances.

We realize that this is just one
big criticism of gym dances,
but we feel that it would be
pure and unadulterated hypocrisy to babble joyously on about

how much everybody enjoyed!

themselves and what a perfectly
marvellous dance it was. Because it wasn’t.”

 

“BELIEFS THAT MATTER’’.

The second of a series of discussions on “Beliefs that Matt
er”, conducted under the aus
pices of the S. C. M. was held
in the Murray, Homestead on
Sunday afternoon at 3.30. Professor Wilson gave a talk on his
The talk
and the discussion that followed
were very helpful to those pres
ent.

me Rey. Dr. J. A. Clark will be
the speaker next Sunday at the

same hour. All interested are
S Pavived to be present.
ig 7 + ; a} ‘ ‘*

¢

    

 

New President

 

|

 

MR. FRED WIGMORE

who was elected President of the
New Students’ Council

President Of

Council Chosen

 

Fred H.. Wigmore of Granem’s Road, Prince Edward
Island, is the President of the
Council-elect. Mr. Wigmore
graduated from Prince of Wales
College, Charlottetown, in 1925,

tare to say or to hazard-a)and took his Bachelor's degree

in Arts at Mount Allison in 1929.
While at Mt. A. he occupied the
positions of -Editor-in-Chiet of
the Argosy, President of the
Students’ Council and Assistant
Dean of the Freshmen’s Residence, besides being a prominent
debater. He entered Medicine
at Dalhousie in 1980, and is now
in. his third year. Last year
he was Editor of the Year Book,
and this year is one of the
representatives of Medicine on
the Students’ Council; President
of Phi Rho Sigma, and Chairman of the Munro Day Committee.

Mr. Wigmore’s executive ability is well attested by the long
list of positions of responsibility
and trust which he has held.
He is an excellent student, public
speaker and writer, and brings
to his new office a_ pleasing
personality, quiet dignity and
strong character. The student

body may rest assured that,
under Mr. Wigmore’s guidance,
student affairs will be conducted
in a business-like manner.

    

Pres. Glee Club

J. ROBERT DONOHOE
who was elected the President of
Next year’s Glee Club bya
large majority at the
recent elections

Munro Day

The following is the program
for Munro Day, March 14th,
1933. The first event will be
at 5 o'clock sharp.

3.00—Softball — Medicine vs
Arts and Science.

3.25-—-Basketball — Studley vs
Forrest Building.

3.50—Basketball — Co-eds vs
Eds.

4.10—Boxing— Bouts.

4.25—Wrestling—2 Bouts.

4.35—Fencing.

4 40—Gymnastics.

4.50—Preparation
Dance,

o-7.10—-Tea Dance.
7.10-'7.30—I ntermission.

7.30—Call “to Order—W.. C.

. MacKenzie, Chairman

7.381—Address by Chas. Anderson, D A. A. C.

7.33—Address by Potter Oyler,
Sodales,

7.35—Address by Harold Egan,
Gazette.

7.87—Address by Robert Machum, Pharos.

7.39—Address by W. Jost, N.
Fe €.iUsS.

7.41—Address by Miss Redmond, Delta Gamma.

7.43—Address by Miss Meagher, D.G. A. C

7.45—Address by Walter
Mutch, S. C. M.

7.47—Address by D. K. Murray, Glee Club.

7.49—Address by W. C. MacKenzie, Students Council.

- ‘7.61—Presentation to Coaches

of Athletics—Chas. Anderson.

7.55—Formal presentation of
Hugh Graeme Fraser
Memorial Scholarship to
University—R. G. Harris.

8.00—Introduction: of New
Council of Students.

8.09—Introduction of President
of New Council.

8.11—Announcement of Malcolm Honour Award.

8.13—Address by President
Stanley.

8.18—D. K. Murray presents
final Glee Club Show of
1932-33.

8.20—Glee Club Show.

10.15—Dancing.

Midnight—Finale.

SODALES.

Tea

for

 

The final Bennett Shield
Debate will be held
Thursday, March 16th,
in the Munro Room at
7.45. After the debate
officers for next year will
be elected.

HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA, MARCH 14th, 1933.

  
    

 

No. 19

 

|| The Program For; Notice Given of

Resolution

Notice is hereby given th a
the following resolution will be

introduced at the next meeting
of Class 33 :— :
WHEREAS many — universi
ties have either abolished or are
holding in abeyance their right
to initiate newcomers to such
institutions, and

WHEREAS Dalhousie students have been held up to ridicule, and have been given much
adverse publicity due to the
retention of the custom of initiation, and

WHEREAS it is generally
conceded that the policy of
initiating newcomers is not, by
nature, productive of any positive good, and

WHEREAS such a policy
may be definitely harmful to
some students, besides being
silly and ridiculous in the extreme;

BE IT THEREFORE -RESOLVED that this Class disapproves of the practice of initiating newcomers to this University as it is at present carried
out; that the policy of hazing
be completely eliminated; and
that Freshmen and Freshettes
be merely distinguished from
members of the upper classes
by some small, comparatively
inconspicuous and ornamental
badge.

NOTICE.

Applications for the following
positions for the year 1933-34
must be in the hands of the
Secretary of the Students’ Council on or before April Ist., 1933.

Editor of the Dalhousie Gazette.

Bus. Mer. of the Gazette.
Editor of the Year Book.
Bus. Mer. of the Year Book.
Property Manager of the Glee

Club.

—_——
 

a

Budgets Passed: At a meeting of the Students Council held
on Sunday afternoon the Munro
Day Budget was passed as presented by the Chairman of the
Committee in charge, Mr. Fred
Wigmore. The budget called
for an expenditure of approximately three hundred dollars.
Budgets for wrestling, the badminton trip to Mount Allison,
Intermediate Basketball for a
trip to Acadia, and a special
budget for the Gazette were also
passed.

Coming Events

Wednesday—8.00 p. m.— C. O.
Thursday—12.00 a. m.—Senior

T. C. Parade.

Class Meeting, Room 4, Arts

Building. Very important
1.00 p. m.—Basketball—Dal Intermediates vs Ac
adia Intermediates.

finals.

Nova Scotia semi
7.30 p. m.—Bennett Shield Debate—Freshmen vs
Seniors. .

Friday—7.30 p. m.—Badminton—Mt. Allison vs Dalhousie at

Gym.

Saturday—12.00 a. m.—Basketball—Acadia vs Dal Intermed, iates at Acadia.
1.00 p. m.—Girls’ Basketball—Dal vs Mt. Allison
at Sackville.

Sunday—3.30 p. m.—Talk and discussion on “Beliefs that

Matter’,
ested will

Murray Homestead. All interbe welcomed.

Monday—7.45 p. m.—Wrestling—Halifax City Championships,
Dal Gym.

 

 

D.A.A.C. Head

  

 

MR. POTTER OYLER
who was elected President of the
D. A. A. C. at the recent
elections

 

Delta Tau Goes

 

Delta Tau, local social fraternity at Dalhousie has received
word of the success of its  petition to the general international
fraternity, Sigma Chi.

The installation has been set
for the early part of May, immediately following the Spring
examinations, and will be attended by many of the officers,
and representatives from various chapters ot the latter fraternity.

Delta Tau was founded in
February, 1930 as a professional
fraternity with an original membership of fifteen, consisting only
of engineering students.

It has grown steadily since
its inception, and. in the Fall of
1931 its scope was widened to
its present status.

Finally this May, Delta Tau
will cease to exist, and the
Gamma Rho Chapter of Sigma
Chi will take its place.

This is the 94th chapter of
this fraternity to be established
the continent, ‘and the 8rd in
Canada, chapters already existing at McGill and the University of Toronto.

———__3+—_____
PUBLIC SPEAKING CLUB
MEETS.

The Effective Speaking and
Parliamentary Procedure Club
held a regular meeting last Thursday evening with “Bobby”
Kanigsberg occupying the chair
in his own inimicable style. By
resolution, the Club went on record as being opposed to the

initiation of Freshmen. Professor Read gave a talk on
‘Gestures’. The chairman then
called upon Mr. Freeman
Stewart, who addressed the
meeting on the subject, ‘‘Personality.’ Jack Millar, when

called upon, had nothing to say,
but he held the floor for three
minutes. Layton Ferguson defended Cape Breton against
many alleged charges, and
Potter Oyler held forth on the
decency of Cape Breton, the
futility of war and the iniquity
of the C. O. T. C.. On motion
the meeting adjourned.

 

Essey Prize: A prize of
$100 is offered to Dalhousie
students for an essay on the
subject of “Dead vs Living
Books.” Further particulars
can be obtained at the Registrar’s office or from Professor
Bennet.

 

and Thompson, St. F. X.
attempting to break a clinch
Thompson threw Murray roughly to the canvas, hurting his hip,
Doug gamely tried to finish the
fight but soon found it impossible,
The ref. awarded the fight to

Xaverians Win
Boxing Shield For
Third Year

Archibald is hero of the
evening as he lifts Middleweight title by defeating McSween

With one of the finest cards
in the history of Intercollegiate
Boxing tke fourth Maritime
Championship passed into history last night as St. F. X.
fought off Tech and Dal to win
their third straight triumph.
Despite starting late and dragging between bouts the fights
had the fans forgiving all.

In the first fight, after the
first round nervousness had worn
off, Grant and Hinchey staged
a fight that grew better as the
rounds clicked off. The judges

decision was in favor of Grant,
lech.

In the next fight both boys

came to the center of the ring
and slugged practically toe to
toe.
ibald knocked Hibbert down for
a count of nine.
round both started slugging but
Archibald’s skill soon showed
and Hibbert was groggy as the
fight ended.
in favor of Archibald as were
most of the fans.

In the second round Arch
In the third

The judges were

Arab and McCale, Bantams,

had the honor of fighting the
first final of the night.
first round the boys were fast
but
Arab started to score plenty
with jabs as McCales rushes
misfired. The third was
same with the Dal boy piling
up points as the fight progressed
The judges decision gave Arab,
and Dal,
Championship.

In the

cautious, in the second

the

the Bantamweight

The fourth fight found Mar
tin and McDonald waiting for
the refs signal.
evident that McDonald was the

It was soon

more experienced ' boxer, tho’
his pushing tactics were not
gaining him much. Despite

Martin’s game attempt to win
the judges’ decision found the
St. F. X. boy on the victor’s end.

The next fight found Fairstein

who replaced Follender, facing
McGilloray.
experience of the St. F. X. boxer

Considering the

the showing of Fairstein, a new
comer to Dal and Intercollegiate

Boxing, was excellent. The decision went to McGilloray.
To break the programme some

six boxers, all Tech students,
were blindfolded and put into
the
contestants in this survival-of
ring. The antics of the
the-fittest bout were marvello

to the extreme as the howls of

the spectators showed. The ref.
declared the fight a draw as the
contestants showed a disposition
to sleep on the floor.

“Big Jim’’McLeod, 175 lbs,

faced Buckie Meagher in the
Light Heavy Class, in a fight
that had the fans on their toes.
Meagher managed to tie “Big
Jim” up for a while in the first
round, but the long arms of the
Dal man were beginning to tell
as the round ended.
second these jabs sent Meagher
to the canvas for nine.
Meagher’s valiant attempt to
come back, he could not cope
with the punching of McLeod
and “Big Jim’’ was Maritime
Light Heavy Champion.

In the

Despite

The next fight was D. Murray
In

Continued on page 4,

 

 
 
 
  

re 4
Y - vy. ©

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE
COMME

Mankinds Difficult Task

  
  

 

The Students’ Forum.

The Editor: _ In March, 1928, Hon. R. B, Bennett visited Dalhousie, and left the
sum of $100 with the Students’ Council, who decided that it should be
divided between inter-class debating

 

: The W aste-Papier
NT Basket

“unconsidered trifles”’

    
     
  
     
   

 
     

We ask that those who select the

Japanese Mendates
we curriculum for the Bachelor of Com
  
   
  

 
     
   
    
 
    
   
  
    
    
 
 
 
  
    
  
    
  
  
   
   
 
 
 
 

yh cas AT OTA = . : j i in| merce course do a little intelligent
= EDITORIAL STAFF. : : Democracy in Crisis Assist oo Muse,to" praise: i thinking with the help of recognized|and either inte1-class or inter-taculty
< ge — =: . z Managing Editor. soaring song “7. . . b sk b ll I : a 2 aa :
2 “ oF DAVID R ALLAN a authorities on higher education. : as etba ( am not sure w hich). ]
cm f ‘ | "B. 9602 ’ eee yous who conquer- We implore these educators to rid Believe aie that Roy oe and
gra eee ee eee ua 2 : ed in Fing Fong. themselves of their preconceived pre-|R. F. McCunn compuised the comis. ce Associates. P : . “ps Phrics pia 7 - yea ELIZABETE ARC é Tell how they rushed to was|sudices and their utter abandonment] mittee to purchase the two shields
= - SAM MARGOLIAN- | A new general conflagration in} And smote the flying celluloid pileory science fcr eee te Shite lh ts ugenbe th ‘shield anally
ca ee Ls ; , tudents. é spent to inscribe the shields annually
ae J.L. DUBINSKY, B.A. | Europe is not a remote possibility] ding dong, The »Jand t ard book priz victorious
: ; e arguments advanced for the and to aware 00k prizes to victorious
ap NEWS S” , itor.|} by .any means, as practically|In- breathless battle, till the]retention of a science are fallacious| debaters. In 1929-30 we awarded book
pores WUT H CRANDALL eric dauient of SEs Paroscan closing gong With the paatinle, sempre or aera ere, oe wer cte: fox, Botlt 1928-29
pe ES B. 9746. situation admits. Theentbrone-} Many the honors that to them elinwtc wae oe —— eee ed aa!
veers suite Merle Purtill , _ |ment of law over lawless force] belong. It is said that the knowledge ac-|the balance I have mentioned. PosRobert Batt ; Marg. Montgomerie and its strong support by public] Their prowess lifts them high] quired in a year’s study of a science sibly Mr. Goudge, then Council Secobert Dorman Mary F. Simmonds opinion is, as Mr. Wickha n Steed] above the throng, is of great benefit to a student. We jtetary, could put you right on this.
‘ Se : : : . believe that it is impossible to show
Marion Morton has pointed out, the crux of the]Their fame shall reach from Ae R. GORDON HARRIS. *
Dorothy Gray highest and hardest task men Studley to Hong Kong = caetaris ths tee spent ‘che the ieee
’ met é Oo 1€ S
- ’ . ° —_—_—_———$——
Co-ed Sports. have ever essayed. The publi-| And bards from age to age their subjert or comparable to the value
YS M. JOST. i ; -Rriti i hal r , of an extra economic, commerce or
ee) etalon ence PARLIAMENTARY
; es . ; Keres ‘ Another equally implausible excuse
| eee Hirtenberg affair concerning the] The English seem a little] for a science is that the training given DISAPPROVES OF
: Dorothy Vernon smuggling of arms by lItaly,|upset by the recent debate in| to the mind in scientific inquiry (the INITIATION
BUSINESS STAFF. What is particularly significant|the Oxford Union, whereby the] mere memorizing of useless facts) is f

transferable to other lines of endeavor.

: aes F The mere fact that this argument is in
ultimatum character of the Note,}will in no circumstances fight] contradiction to the views of reputable

which demanded a sworn state-|for its King and Country’’ was] psychologists supposedly is of no
ment that the arms had been|carried by a majority of 122] consequence.

ess Manager Asst. Business Manager : ea ; Noe
AON , - CHARLES CLARKE, B.A.|@bout this whole affair is the|Resolution that ‘‘this House Be sree of thet Padia
mentary Procedure Club held
last Thursday evening the fol
~

_ Proof Editor. : 5 : The cultural argument is consider-|!owing motion was introduced
ERIC D. MURRAY returned to Italy. Austria re-}out of a total vote of 428. ably over-emphasized. The knowledge|}by H. J. Egan, seconded by

E. B. Rogers and carried by a
large majority.
“WHEREAS Dalhousie stu
George H. Murphy fused the demand, and the point Punch follows The _ Times and | of ‘atomic weights, specific gravities,

F- was not pressed. We have no|castigates the audacious youths] names of fossils, chemical formulae,
assurance that other such inci-}in verses headed “Where Union|the movement of bodies on inclined
dents will not follow however]is Not Strength.’ “Of the Union| Planes, refraction of light waves, etc.,

 
  
 
   
 
   
  
    
  
 
   
    
   
    
 
 
  
   
  
   
  
  
  
  
 
   
   
   
    
  
  
  
   
   
  
 
 
 
   
  
  
  
   
   
  
   
 
   
  
 
  
   
    
    
    
   
   
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
   
 

  

Editorial office B. 5676

: ; : tc., is of +h cultural value as}dents have b
= | and the event brings into very|itself, it avers, wetoaita: edie talkie Cate eee ridicule ” ae tare gone
Set clear light the explosive position It is our intention to illustrate in] ,-oo+ q Sacre
a, Ty PREJUDICE. in which the whole European] “It is a cheap and useful club | our next letter how the science course etee Pa : gp coca tae
situation is involved. But not the Alma Mater’s hub, | ™4y, be made of more cultural value

; Two of the necessary attributes of the scientist are the open to the commerce student. the custom of initiation; and

ee ne : ; Nor a true index of the soul ; See
mind and the conceptions when the | i . WHEREAS r
> facts Esch Mae” One ck Phe f De oh of Ah Uaiuerces should | J@Panese Mandates— tre ai lite eee 308 oe Sorat : G Pk So he ah ae a conceded that ae ee a
ME ae dg ew ge tS s c ough normal youth may here NV. N f Ni ee seh pe : ’ :
_ be to develop this scientific outlook in the mind of the student. Paton etal na caaiadeey| (be found: REFORM. initiating newcomers is not, by

nature, productive of any positive good; and
WHEREAS such a policy may

__-___._ In too many cases, college students areinhibited from original
» ‘thought. by preconceptions and prejudices which blind them to
reality. We do not say that one should cast over all his old beliefs

is at present in question on acc-/The cranks in greater force
ount of her changed position in} abound

Ruger ae Br Say eo Si ere : the league. Under Art XXII ofthe|In this their happy hunting] Dear Mr. Editor:-— : ;
cause he cannot explain their foundation; there are many things Borie san aut hia notnecce |i ground, be definitely harmful to some

ife that the very best minds cannot comprehend. But we do| > I should like to correct the state-|Students, besides being silly and
7 that one should accept and believe what ascertained facts and| S@tY that a mandatory must be aj Where the unending human ass} || M70 nS your Editorial column | ridiculous in the extreme:

eful consideration show him to be true, whether or not it con-| League _ Member, but under| Blows off at times superfluous] {a4 weel with reference to the “Ben. BE IT THEREFORE REflicts with preconceived notions. == Sect. 3, it must be willing to ac-| _ gas. nett Shield’’ for inter-class debating. | SOLVED that the Public Speakree Prejuc Peta ai burden that. weighs on the development of a fine| C&Pt the task. of tutelage as aj Exulting whensoe’er he shocks} This Shield was first offered for|> Preas

: - 2 4 competition in 1928-29, and was won ing and Parliamentary Club of
_ mii nd. If the burden be cast aside, the mind may quest for new

. mandatory of the League, in-| The feelings of the orthodox

T f : ' ye . . ; by the Sophomores, Class '31, who Dalhousie University disapprov"truth; if the burden be retained, the mind is bound with fetters that| 1Uding observance of the obliga-| And for the rest, is overjoyed | were not represented by ‘‘a prominent}es of the practice of initiating
event its growth. With a free mind, man’s life is his own; but|U0"S that go with being a manda-| By bombinating in the void. member of this year’s graduating] newcomers to this University

e" a side —< * A , j lass in law,’”’ but by J. L. McKenna date ;
he | ae | | artly| tory. This also holds true, even c law,”" but by
a au nd hampered by prejadice, man must live a life partly Wiehe! a aicmber isi evicted f-om| | Allthe same, Punch bettaye| and Daris Margeson. as it is at present carried ‘out;

pad mead. Beats: the League as a covenant-break-|a certain amount of heat’ in| .,)2¢ following year, ae A, Y.|that the policy of ‘hazing’ be

= Bitar nie . : I e 2 MacDonald (apparently the gentleman | completel imi .
‘COWARDICE OR COMMON SENSE? | cE uttering this reprobation. The} referred to) and Mary Crocker retain. pietely eliminated; and that

But legal disqualification as a|rest of the verses, not quoted, | ed the shield for Class ’31 (then juniors)

eo hi; Bch ay ED, ei et -" x eas Whether your editorial writer thei
; 5 Op pea ne alt { a . a . C Saw Cir,
_ ‘When, and if another war comes, will the youth of the nation| ™@ndatory does arise when the/seem to indicate that the boys} }!.°mer not, I can assure you that|bers of the Upper Classes by

Memes Narre = Be : . bligations are not fulfilled. Re-; have succeeded in exciting the se :
enlist and fight; Will the professional patriots, the ballyhooing|° a ares they were inscribed on the shield, as}some, comparatively inconspic| cent statements in the Toykio|British Public to an unusual] was Secretary-Treasurer of Soaales “ous. and erties a badg .

newspapers point to the extreme! degree. myself and saw that such was done

* Freshmen and Freshettes. be
merely distinguished from mem
Sl

=
aha
Pou

}
3 } bai? 7 2h

: " miiitarists, ee white feather propagandists inveigle thousands
— of young men with brilliant futures before them into murdering the ee the Spri inners si ae
ete: : pd ets : | probability that the mandates same Spring. If winners since Ritiecoast
ate 4 aes ot a fie oe some quarrel in which they fobtie North, Partie nicer Japan- PRO ARCHIA. sera have not been similarly record- NOTICE.
have had no part? Colleges all over the continent are discovering ed, I agree with you that this should

ese administration are to be sub
a te ms e <: , / : : er
_ that the percentage of students who would enlist in the next war] ‘ not have been overlooked. :
s Oats bate sana each year the feeling is greater against fighting |J¢cte¢ to treatment which vio- : Possibly I can. throw some light on] he Elementary Latin Class
72 ‘for an ideal existing in the minds of the politicians. The revalent | @tes Japan’s mandatory obliga-|  . the matter of this Shield, and the one] Wish to inform John A. Y. Macb eye, ee | g p , p Some people give advice mere- which was presented simultaneously.}| Donald that the next time he

feeling is to let those who wish to fight, fight; let the people who] 10s: The procrastination of

I am giving you this information from breaks a rule by chewing gum

 

| —_—_— start the war fight it; don’t make cannon fodder out of those who the League, hitherto observed, is ly pecatise, ey .wisky, & get. g a? oo naturally @m Open tO fia weaw por ik
__wish to live, maiming them, and ruining their lives. The next|Ulikely to continue in this re-|0! 1 acetal ooo ae ae cla ie ee eater ere
wish to Ii . : ; . ae —— matter was recently before your Coun- ass.
_war will find the ranks of the slackers and those who are ‘har gard, since such action on Japan’s ie :
find’ considerably augmented by students who have feted ike Bee diccits talare various), It's twice as eaSy (to deceive) Ch Sic tet repands coald mot be totmed, EL. LATIN CLASS.

ey seen a , one’s mother as it is to deceive
futility of fighting another man’s war; who have ceased to regard} C™e@t Powers. Where one’s own
“s uty ee : 8 interest is directly concerned,|4"2yY other woman.

The more man has, the more
he wants—with the possible exception of the father of twins.

 

a Percctnesa: something essentially fineand noble; and who value| ‘™*etes* oe Ly,
life too highly to throw it away upon a politician’s battlefield, | 4¢t#0m is almost inevitable.
__ The war-time cries of ‘‘slacker’’ and ‘‘whitefeather” will fall upon : te
_ deaf ears, for common sense is supplanting patriotism and the Democracy in Crisis.
divine right of militarism. os

Pe E

dee:

—_—.

 

&
| Fopcoats in all the new
. The possibility of revolution aa.
MENTALITY AND COLLEGE, overturning our present system} 4” English clergyman charg-| styles and shades

of government is one that is dis-}€4 with immorality denies that
counted by many. But that|he ever wore pyjamas. So that
may be because aversion from] Settles that. SUCH AS

—

eee cot. . , :
For the past few weeks the columns of the Student Forum have
_-__ been filled with expressions of opinion on the much discussed ques
eS Se sae rds crisis is widespread. Neverthe- ;
___ tion of the Feminine Mind, if any. We hold no briet for the female less the revolt against democratic! Freud said that wishes are the.

2
portion of the student body, but the truth of the matter i a Me €. 2 . : H | d
nt: _ few members of either Aes ake capable of carrying St abiitelinecs principles has continued. What-|basis of ee dere i on arris 1 wee
conversation on any topic outside of the realm of sport and the ship teh - oe SEAS: oe Bei ates C | H .

ee ~ errant ar ce : oT 4s : ships, the icy 18 essentially rs f

movies. Yet Dalhousie offers abundant facilities for mental im- pOney y When a man gets the idea! ame alr

 

 

provement to those desiring it; disregarding lectures, the student prosresaive atid” attracuve < ¢o) i S
hiss all the books in the Library at his onl iad Semelbas these id yt Om OLDE to find iS ee hace ieee nee

Ce

ee e newly established Book Club. Those who do read, do so only| "4805 - this i of self- Bee ae ee D onegal and the hew P olo

mn Re, rae! fel of study, peste! with the laudable object of Harold. ‘J. L ae .Y Biaeeeie | to ee. Se Un e

" -_—__—s attaining a high position in the class: their general knowledce j el Meee ices I ian Oy spi 7
Na ea Aity.” The more dntellectast sox & ‘sane ee we * de bo ok Democracy in. Crisis,’”’|. A re cee is one who Coats with all round Belt In

_ remarks on topics of the day, but their opinions are superficial in the which while not saying very much |!5" t in nee ie

ext The majority wander aimlessly through the halls of| tht is new to those who are ac-| _,, ; G id F
__ what is supposed to be an institution of learning Roiienag whether | Wainted with his previous writ- ti Pee ‘a Stan Pea — a oe
_ or not they will cut the next lecture. To the old, old question of | 785), Yet show, olive more that [107 "+0 some: people.

- : ’ . e
Why. do: they: come: to’ collere?’” it mich _| “capitalist’”’ democracy lies at wicks Aart oa re df $ 5 0
T oy don’t know, and sadder still eeerbalt von care auswered:) she root of democracy’s decline.|_, Humorists generally write in Price rom I 7. 0 to 3 00
Te. 4 Oe : : Professor Laski thinks peaceable their shirt sleeves probably be___. | transformation unlikely and con-|C@use that is where their funny
See ho Teale E ; : : bone is located.
“At McGill, we pride our-}. A pickpocket is obviously a fict almost certain. His analy- aii :
ae" seivea on beluy conservative, in|champion of private enterprise. | 5) alarming, but so is the situa- ae A F resh Shipment of Nu--Felt

ea bre, : 3 ; | ; : Let a great statesman make a
_ the sense that we are not ready|But it would perhaps be an ex. tion. Once more is laid before] .
_ to be stampeded into following |aggeration to say that a pick-| 1° the fact that, a8 Mr. Walter |®Uly. rash or. extravagant a Hats at $1.50
ded coliege student. But we| preservation of belongings and competitive which are dis- all his eloquent orthodoxy.
uid not like to be charged | have at best tried to disguise the interested and co-operative in Pt

Desahews tlie te eicoestsione pocket is » chommion cf iho Lippmann pointed out in his|S¢tvation and it will secure more

would not like to ‘ged | have ’ ” Many a man never gets on,

; n being backward. We like|pickpocket with some of th effect. i Be joinal Sp g d (
‘to think that we are open-|virtues of the pirate. The elite ie ft ree ene es the popular side until he ia 30 r A Gar eh Roa

 

~

et 7
’ e!

 

 

 

eel Ah Ia. eee Sadhge is, Me Pais, ne cat so tatesmanlike utterances. Leta
. Nor do we indulge in|Capitalism and Commercialism, |SUPTeme, Social. problem of the|® :
childish and undignified prac-|as conducted of late, is that they | Wetieth century is to find} ‘lersy Bee na
tices such as initiation, which|have neatly preached the exten-| ©@°!8!°$ 45 powertul ead asipers|/* Considered, heterodox and it)

n hardly worthy of a serious-|sion of business rather than the sistent as the acquisitive and the gs bite ynore prominence thar)
fk .

   

rash im Wearusireh Ons bos laropecty. The Beige uous book “Interpretations,” “the publicity than all his wise,
ty ee ee ee oe : the silent: majority.
h to accept new |about Communism is that it only

 

 

 

and gin them serious|reforms the pickpocket by for-| “For industry all no less for} Women ar naturally foolish
tion, not blindly follow- bidding pockets.” 2. Veducation, a day of reckon} ‘ : ae
tion.’’— McGill Daily. e 2 ct Gs. 56. CHESTERTON ‘has come.” | is atch th cick. eer ee

4

Discount of 10% to Students,

 

oad ;
‘a ee, —

    

   

 
 

7
~
ee

i Wl "Bir pans = 3
Me ace = ae
'
|

pe x ~ Again I continue my tirade
' against the males of Dalhousie,
and fling my contempt at ‘‘Whis| key Jake” ’,my contemporary, he,
who believes that womenkind
_ at this fair institution of learning
Pe are, cheap, immature, unworthy
a a good man’s love; on and on
4 he goes, even getting sweetly
~ sentimental about “that fair
are thing” the ‘‘violet
| the woods’. But then the
: _ little boy gets quite cynical and
S teads. one to believe that he is
rather doubtful that there is
i such a dear and wholesome
creature as a violet. Just ano- ther nineteen year old cynic.
~ One ventures to ask if Whiskey,
, > “that fearless old Indian fighter”’
as he designates himself, has
ever had his little innocent fun
Cs with the ‘‘violets in the woods’’
and if so, whose violets were
e they? Whiskey, my dear you
35 have the nicest ideals. Was
ee your little heart broken when
ee _ they were shattered before your
— ~ horrified eyes?

i

    
   
 
   
   
   
   
  
  
   
   
    
   
   
    
    
  
   
  
 
 

 
 

 
 

  

  

' There was a young man from
_. Dalhousie
4 “a Who thought all the co-eds were

i

JUSY
E _ By name Whiskey Jake—
et UA bit of a rake:
et “How women”
3 arouse. me.’

ee

said he “can

a
1A

_ “Egbert” it’s your turn now.
= You are really quite amusing;
- when you took up our cause,
how we cheered your brave
“spirit, and forgave all your
= papiinge against womankind. Oh
for heaven’s sake, you ought to
realize what an ass you are and
get on to yourself.

ee

i

=

| igbert wields a mighty pen—
fact he Byrnes us up.
e thinks our sex should bow

‘9 men
t we! think he’ $s a pup.
ge
ead fs eh car, now a word to those males
. a who believe themselves to be the
; er of mankind, very Apollos
- who cut in on girls at dances,

| ~ (Continued on page 4) .

NAME PLATES in brass or
bronze as well as Memorial Tab
ets are oneof'our many articles
of manufacture.

     
       
          
        
       
     
       
    
 
    
   
     
 
    
  

  

  

We invite your inquiries

. ‘bf
| Henry Birks & Sons
| Limited

DIAMOND MERCHANTS
Halifax, N. S.

Music in all Branches.

Principal _

Teacher’s Certifi icate,

To-day is Munro Day. Dak

housie pauses in it’s regular

routine to commemorate Mr.
George Munro, one of the greatest benefactors that this University has ever known.

The majority of Dalhousie

students have a meager know
ledge of the history of George
Munro and it is this fact that
has inspired the Gazette to outline the reasons for to-day’s
celebration. The Gazette is
greatly indebted to Dr. MacMechan, fermer Munro Professor, for his valuable assistance
in supplying material for this
article.

Mr.


George Munro -was a

native of Pictou County, N. S.
He taught in the Free Church
Academy, before leaving for New
York, where he entered the
Publishing business. He soon
set up a publishing house of his
own and inaugerated the Sea
Side Library. This endeavour
was quite successful for he aceumulated considerable wealth.

| Mr. Munro was the brother-inlaw of Mr. John Forrest, at that

time’ President of Dalhousie.
It was through this relationship
that munificient gifts came to
this University.

Professor John Johnson, of the
Physics department, had made a
calculation that on a given date
the departmedt would have to
close it’s doors;for it was living
on it’s capital only. Dr. Forrest
was very fond of relating how
he and George Munro had discussed the condition of the
College. Dr. Forrest expleined
the needs of Dalhousie and the
particular need for a chair of
Physics. At the conclusion of
the conversation Mr. Munro
said: ‘‘Well John if you find the
man I'll find the money.” Needless to say both were found and
in 1879 he endowed the chair
of Physics. Professor Gordon

‘MacGregor was the first in
cumbent. He was perhaps the
most brilliant graduate of Dalhousie. He gave the University
it's present scientific standing.
In the same year Mr. Munro
endowed the chairs of History,
Political Economy, Constitutional Law and Philosophy. A chair
in English Literature soon followed. These chairs each had
an income of two thousand a
year. George Munro at this
time was making four thousand
a year. Not only did he endow
these chairs but he supported
tutorships in Mathematics and
classics. For ten years he provided a number of bursaries
and exhibitions in Nova Scotia.
Some of Dalhousie’s most distinguished professors and graduates were Munro Bursars or
Exhibitors. One was ex-president Mackenzie. First and last

MacLeod, Balcom,

Limited

DRUGGIST

HALIFAX and BEDFORD

UPPER AND LOWER

Vine Ladies College SCHOOL

aicervstory of Music

Household Science: Teacher’s
and Dietitian’s Certificate.

Graduation Diploma.

. Licentiate or Bachelor of Music, Dalhousie University.
| , “MISS E. FLORENCE BLACKWOOD, B.A.,
(i 2a

MR. HARRY DEAN

Director of Conservatory

 

  
 
   

ao

  

ion "Fee $15 .00 per year.

ENGINEERING COURSES
_ CIVIL ELECTRICAL, MECHANICAL AND MINING

To Dalhousie Students with Engineering Dip

nt, Instructing Staff with tmdostctal Ex
Twenty-five scholarship of $75.00 .00 each.
ety ote or set for Calendar or advice.

    
       
 
         
       
   
  

perience

F. H. sae TOM, Pres.

 

r Dene ere ne

ac ie
a

Mr. Munro expended three hune
dred thousand in benefactions
to Delhousie.
he was a pioneer. No such sum
had ever been given to higher
education by an individual before in Canada. It is noteworthy that the chair in English
was the first to be established
in Canada for English pure and
simple. Previously English was
associated with History or Modern Languages.

The munificence of George
Munro, the Pictou County
school teacher, saved Dalhousie
from financial disaster. His
gifts are especially outstanding
because they went to the improvement of the staff and students and not to the erection
of buildings, which were at that
time of secondary importance.
Mr. George Munro set a shining
example of generosity in the
support of higher education.
In the College which he saved
from extinction, his name and
memory should never be allowed to die. Justly may we sing,

ee |

‘“‘this is Dalhousie’s day”’!

 

The World As a.
“Dope-Fiend”’

_—

By B. Lebasi..

 

Fifteen years ago the ‘‘World”’
was declared convalescent after
the most se rious attack of “ warfever’’ that it had ever experienced in its history. Exhausted,
heart-sick, emaciated, and almost
despairing mankind called in its
most prominent and trusted physicians,”’ (the allied statesmen)
and asked for a medicine which
would restore the shattered sinews and prevent a recurrence of
the dreaded disease. Their recommendation, which was followed eagerly and joyfully, was
—DRUGS, and plenty of them.

Disarmanent, abolishment of
tariff walls, prevention of the
financial exploitation of the masses, an internationally controlled
currency and credit system,
world co-operation toward progress—all were admitted to be
wonderful tonics, but these (‘‘physicians’’ said) were too powerful
in their action for a patient so
weak. So they “doped” the
world, instead

The drug used come in pretty
green bottles and had a most
promising description but—it
was merely the old, too-well
known poison, ‘‘Abortive World
Conferences well-seasoned with
greedy Nationalism and lmperialism.”’

This drug produces a pleasant
feeling of drowsy hope, optimism,
and mis-placed confidence, together with a hallucination of
progress, but its only result has
been to leave the patient weaker,
more exhausted and more discouraged than ever after each
of the frequent treatments.
Despite the drugs (or, perhaps)
of its old ailment in a more virulent form than ever.

To-day mankind has become
as accustomed to such “‘sprees”’
that they have developed into
an almost necessary habit. Our
hopes of eventual health have
disappointed and we have become so near-sighted and so
weak-minded that our chances of
continued life appear (to us) to
be bounded by green baise covered tables which are surrounded
by ‘“‘fat-paunched,”’, talkative,
selfish exponents of the old arts
of sophistry and flattery, who
prefer words to actions and who
only want to let things drift in
the vain and foolish hope that
sometime, somehow, the world
will overcome the obstacles they
place in its way and will return
to ‘‘normalcy”’ of itself,

rr

On Saturday and on Wednesday March 11th and 15th King’s
play the Technical College for
a playoff berth in the Intercollegiate basketball league. The
King’s team, in spite of a disappointing season, expect to
make a good showing.

In this respect

   
  
  
  

OMMENT

——

 

Harry Herman: So you don’t |

like women eh?

Bob. McFarlane: No, even
when a man jumps in the river
one can be pretty sure there is a
woman at the bottom of it.

Cousins-Hix, the bright, bright
freshman was asked to write
a theme on thejcomparison of
Bacon and Lamb. The theme
came back with the subject “A
comparison of Pork and Veal.”
Hew! Hew

A young college boy after a
football game, walked into a
hotel and rushed up and shook
hands with the manager. He
wore the inevitable coon coat
and was with the inevitable
blonde. He whispered his embarassment to the manager saying he had spent all his money
and wanted his cheque for $2
cashed in order to take his girl
home in a taxi.’ He okayed the
cheque and the college boy went
to the cashier and cashed a
cheque for two hundred dollars
because the manager failed to
draw a line after the word
“two’’ on the cheque. This is
about the situation at Dalhousie
only some person takes all the
cash he can get his hands on.
We wonder—

Who is the goat of the Economics 2 Class? Ask John Candow, he might know.

Who took P. P. Atwood's
money bag and why?

Who marked up Murray Ryan’s face?

Who advised Dalhousie to
lost to the Wanderers?

Maybe Connie knows.

Well, Munroe Day is here
at last. The co-eds versus the
Eds is certainly attracting attention around the campus.
Some are backing the girls and
others the boys. Observer has
already bet eight cents (depression money) on the girls
providing Donny Hewat jumps
centre and ‘‘Big Jim’’ referees.

 

 

 

The other night Observer
heard a girl telling Robert that
he danced fairly well considering the fact that he was president of the Anti-Feminist League. Keep at the dancing Bob,
she may have meant it.

 

Ability .to talk fiction is not
necessarily acquired through

| novel reading.

 

 

Our High Quality Standard

 

  
   
 
   
  
  
   
  
 
    
    
   
   
   
 
   
    
  
 
   
   
   
   
     
  
  
   
    
   
   

MAKE SURE
OF A AND”

On your next quiet evening
with the boys, open a
package of Turrets and see
the royal
hand
you get.
You'll
be ace
high for
the rest
of the night, because they

   
     
  

   
     

     

     
   
    
  
 
 
 
    
   
     
    
  
 
   
   

  
  
    
  
 
 
 
 
   
   
    
    
  

   
   
     

10 for 10¢

   
     
 

  
  
 

all smoke ‘em. 20 for 20¢
SAVE THE POKER HANDS 25 for 25¢
—and in flat tins of
fifty and one hundred

  
    
 
  
      
    
      
     
        
     
     
   
    
 
   
  
     
 
   
     
  
    
   
      
  
   
 
  
     
      
 
  
   
 
  
  
  
    
  
  
   
   
 
  
  
         

     
    
    

‘lurret

CIGARETTES

Imperial Tobacco Company of Canada, Limited

 

Get Your
Moneys Worth:

The very latest in cooking
devices are used here, giving you
higher food values in every dish.

THE
Green Lantern

409 Barrington St.

G. A. McDonald

Tobacconist

Complete Range of Pipes

25c. to $7.00
21 Spring Garden Road

 

makes our Low Prices
Doubly Attractive

SUITS, OVERCOATS
FULL DRESS and
TUXEDO at one

price

$19.°°

MADE TO MEASURE

Tip Top Tailors

THE STUDENT’S TAILORS
TRAMWAY BUILDING

Barrington and Sackville Sts.

o >,

HALIFAX, N.S.

 

 

       
           
     

 

HEINTZMAN PIANOS

Adding to the home!
goal of Heintzman designers.
man Grands are indeed triumphs of design and craftsmanship. Beautiful, dignified and of exquisite workmanship,
they enhance every setting with a reflection of priceless
‘quality and good taste.

You are cordially invited to visit our Music Salon today.

456-460 BARRINGTON

 

 

That has been the continuous
The various styles of Heintz
 

STREET

   

Pa
   
        

  

ik ta whom they have never
ad the pleasure of being intro- duced thinking that they bring
a flutter to their foolish female] ;
Pee You are wrong, you are
_ considered most objectionable
and it’s about time you reali
| ie =! Tt There is no reason why a girl
/ should have to be both bored and
| ~ °~ irritated by being forced by the
etiquette of the dance floor to
ons dance with you. Most of you
- ean’t dance decently and make
the poor girl even more miserable
-_-by stepping all-over her feet:
Some of you have neglected the
daily shave and other unmention
_ able things.

  

 

    
  

| ne

 
 

able. ~Henceforward dance with
eae those you know and all I can say
is that I’m glad that I’m not
one of them.

_ | HALIFAX TAXI CO.
Ave B.7376

Service

  

  

‘GARRICK

WED: THUR.
| ‘The Penquin Pool
| Murder’

—wit h—

EDNA MAY OLIVER
ROBERT ARMSTRONG
rt - JAMES GLEASON,
ne WED. and THUR.

eee ERI. ~ . SAT.

Bh “The Devil is

bie Driving’
i a

EDMUND LOWE
WYNNE GIBSON

Rect Annual Summer Tours to Europe
aes) | AND

ey Cruise to the Orient

for detailed circular apply to

Miss Rhoda Howe,
224 Bloor St.West

TORONTO

Miss. V. Alvarez,
70 Sun Life Bidg.
MONTREAL

   

  

realize how easy it is to

  
    
       
    
   
    
  
  
  

‘leave the wrong impression.
i ‘Particular men do not lay
Be _ | themselves open to harsh
' criticism by wearing soiled
Bae -| laundry. Dare you run the
ace) | risk of offending when for

a _a few cents you can appear
re ‘immaculate by sending

your work to the

_|Balifa Steam
Laundry

L-2300

‘Thompson.
gered at Thompson’s roughness,
booed the decision.

| I rise up in my
wrath again to say it, you are)
quite and decidedly objection
    
       
     
      
       
           
     
     
     
       

 

 

 

| DALHOUSIE GYMNASIUM
Y. M. C. A. vs DALHOUSIE

we ~ ey —

Continued from page 1
The spectators, an
In the semi-final bout Grant,

Tech, took a close decision bout
from J. Glorioso,
zed | decision was a decided upet as

Dal. This
Glorioso was considered the favorite. The three rounds showed
pretty footwork, science and
speed with Grant forcing the
fight in the third to get the
decision and win for Tech her only
Maritime Championship. The
decision was popular with the
crowd.

The final fight found Archibald against McSween. Despite the fact that this was the
Dal man’s second fight he soon
showed that He was in the
battle. Opening out in the second round the Dal ian began
to force McSween to miss and
cover up. The third and final
round found the crowd on its
toes as Archibald threw everything at McSween but the chairs,
chasing him around the ring,
forcing him to cover up continually. The decision that made
Archibald Champion found the
Dal students going wild.

 

 

WED. THUR.
WARNER BAXTER

“Dangerously Yours’’
with MIRIAM JORDAN

FRI.

SAT. MON. TUES.
CECIL B. DeMILLE’S

“Sign of the Cross’’

With Frederic March
Elissa Landi
Claudette Colbert
Charles Laughton

Miss Lillian Watson,
141Power Bldg.
WINNIPEG

a ZZ
The Tren
The Times

The sands of time are flowing,
the book of events lies open at
the present, while the burning
candle is the symbol of passing
life. The march of time, the
events of the day, through
the ray of publicity are brought
to you by THE HALIFAX
HERALD AND THE HALIFAX MAIL and keep you fully
informed every day of what is
transpiring in this (unique) age
and these most mysterioustimes.

   
    
    
 
   
 
  
 
 
 
   

Every day something new.
Something new every day.

The Halifax Herald

and

The Halifax Mail

    
     

a Naeatians. Win {Dal COuintette Lose

By Total Score In

the City Senior play-offs to the

a ere eet eee

 

Student Health

  
   
  

Dear Sir :-—

Quite recently we had a series
of Health Lectures delivered to
us in the Gymnasium, these
lectures emphasized the necessity for cleanliness and good
sanitation if we are to enjoy
good public health. At the last
lecture in the Gymnasium of
the Dalhousie Lectureseries, the
audience heard the unsanitary
conditions of the North-West
Arm denounced in a no uncertain manner by Dr. Grant, Dean
of Dalhousie Medical School.
The danger of contagion and
the possibility of an epidemic
were all too clearly brought
home to us and we were told
that it was our duty as citizens
of the more enlightened class
to do all in our power to remedy
such conditions. Now this is
very right and proper BUT WE
SHOULD FIRST MAKE
SURE THAT WE OURSELVES, IN .~DALHOUSIE
UNIVERSITY, ARE LIVING
IN THE MIDST OF SANITARY CONDITIONS. And to
anyone that thinks we are so
living I would advise that person
to visit the Men’s lavatories in
the basement of the Library.
The filth of the toilets is unmentionable and the place is
generally unsanitary. Immediate steps should be taken by
those in authority to see that
the proper remedies are applied;
not to wait till some unfortunate
student reports that he has
contracted some dread disease
in the Men’s toilets in the
basement of the Library. Examination time is drawing closer
and this place will be in more
constant use and as conditions
now exist it is impossible to
make use of the lavatory at all
due to the disgraceful condition
of the Toilets.

City Play-off

+ +

The Dalhousie Tigers were
unable to hold their six point
lead from the first game and lost

Wanderers 73 to 65 last Wed.
night. The game was played
on the little Y floor and the close
guarding made real basketball
impossible. Bauld and Crease
the two forward stars of Dal
found it impossible to breakaway and were held to 3 lone
points. The referees called 20
fouls on Dal and 15 on the
Wanderers and this slowed up
the game and tended to make it
uninteresting.

In the first half the Wanderers
started fast and rolled in seven
points before Dal counted on a
foul shot by Fairstein. The
game then see-sawed back and
forth with the Wanderers having
a slight edge mainly because of
the drive of their forward line of
Piers, Woodworth and Grant.
The first half ended 24 to 11.

In the second period Dal put
On a sustained drive and with
O’Brien, Fairstein and Musgrave leading the attack crept
up to within one point of the
Wanderers. However the banishment of both Crease and
Bauld for four personal fouls
was too much and the defense
split wide open to allow the
Wanderers to win easily 41 to 27.

The all round playing of
O’Brien, substituting for Anderson stood out for Dalhousie,
while the foul shooting of Woodworth featured the Wanderers
attack.

Dal Co-eds Tied
By Acadia In

Overtime

The Dalhousie Co-eds led by
the Kenniston sisters held the
highly touted Acadia Co-eds to
a draw last Thursday night.
The game, which was fast and
clean throughout, produeed excellent basketball, and provided
rwo hair-raising finishes that
left the small crowd gasping for
breath.

Dalhousie scored the first basket but it wasn’t long before
Acadia was out in front. The
Dal girls could not seem to
keep the tall Muriel Baker away
from the basket and she caught
rebound after rebound to go up
and score. Dal trailed at half
time 17 to 12.

In the second half with Mary
Simmonds guarding Muriel Baker very closely and holding her
scoreless, the Dal girls tied it up.
The final point that brought the
score to 19 all was scored by
Freda Cahan as the final whistle
blew.

In the overtime with Acadia
3 points ahead Martha and Flo
iKenniston each dropped in two
baskets but Dal could not hold
the lead and Acadia duplicated
Dal’s early feat by also tieing
the game up as the final whistle
blew. Jean. Foshay was the
heroine as her foul shot bounced
around the rim twice before
finally going through to end the
game at 27-all.

The work of the two Kennistons and the two guards Marg];
Wollaver and Ethel Jackson
were the highlights of the game.

 

E= D. “Mi.

 

BIG WRESTLING SHOW
MONDAY.

Main Gymnasium, 8.15 p. m.
Y. M. C. A. vs. Dalhousie.

The Wrestling Club makes
its debut into Inter-club competition next Monday, when it
will entertain a team of 12
wrestlers from the Y. M. C. A
Hymie Magonet and Francis
Mackasey are promoting the
meet and they promise all who
will be present at the show,
plenty of action and excitement.
So don’t forget. Support the
Club by turning out and bring
atriend. Dal’s team is Magonet
Proctor, Claener; Johnston,
Goode, Petrie, Faulkner, Mackasey. Smith, Devereaux, Fisher
Arab.

Millionaire’s Party — The
best party. ever was held on
Monday, March 18 at the Lord
Nelson Hotel by the Commerce
Society. And everyone was
there. Jerry Naugler’s music
was perfect, which makes a
party.

The various speakers, who
have addressed the Commerce
students and their wives, and
the professors of Commerce,
were guests.

On Thursday, March 9, the
Commerce Society held a meeting to make the final arrangements for the dance.

—_———— $< a
———_———_3--o____
Colonel Sidney C. Oland
has presented a cup for the
girls’ badminton championship.

“San Jase Junior College offers
a curriculum in laundry training.”’

— —— - 2 : I eat re

March 14th, 1688

——— nm | te

To The Editor of Dal Gadeiies*

~ nm

Sherriff Hall
Notes

I wish to express my appreciation of those who made up the
amount of money which I had
stolen from me, before nine
o'clock on Wednesday morning,
March the Sth. I look upon
this act as evidence of the true
sportsmanship of Dalhousie students, and their no uncertain
contempt of the one responsible

: . |for the theft.
What's this we hear of certain

Sophomores having their leaves
restricted? Shame on you, for
being in a position to use such
leaves. Never mind, next year
is coming; and Junior leaves.

And still Ping-Pong progresses.
Some snappy match es—and some
in which the ball sometimes
comes near the table. But, |
assure you, there is a general
marked improvement.

ROY W. ATWOOD.

 

T. J. WALLACE

SIGHT SPECIALIST
Y.M.C.A. Bldg.

“If You Want To See Well
See Wallace.’’

Misses Francis Drummie and
Edith Cox spent the week-end
in St. John, visiting Fran’s home.

 

 

KING’S COLLEGE NOTES

An exciting and very fast game
of basketball was played in the
King’s Gym., Thursday noon,
March 9th. One team consisted

 

 

    
       
   
   
       
     

FROM THE

WINNERS FRoMT

For 60 years the REACH Trade

   

of players from N. B. and the Mark on Sporting Goods has been
other of players from the} || a mark of perfection. No matter
World’. The game was rough what your favorite sport may be

we can supply you with equipment
that will help you play the game
with the best that’s in you.

CRAGG BROS CO.,

Limited
Hardware and Sporting Goods
HALIFAX, N. S.

but good basketball was shown
at times. Regan, Crosby and
Smith played well for N. B. and
Hutchins was high scorer for
“the World’. The final score
was 40-86 for the latter, who
kept the lead during most of the
game.

 

 

 

 

    

NICKERSON & CREASE
Limited
Wholesale Fruit and Produce
574-578 Barrington St.
HALIFAX, N. S.

Special

STUDENT SERVICE

| DRY CLEANING
PRESSING
REPAIRING

—We call for and deliver.—

Cousins’ Limited

Master Cleaners and Dyers
507-11 Robie St. 381 Barrington St
Telephone Lorne 2323

 

CASINO

Thursday to Saturday
March 16-17-18

“WHITE FACE”

EDGAR WALLACE’S MASTER
Mystery with a Cast of English
Favorites

    

 

 

Monday to Wednesday

March 20-21-22
RUTH

CHATTERTON
“FRISCO “JENNY”

Who Would Dare |
To Say That

I was surprised to learn, through the
editorial columns, that the Students’
Council was referred to as ‘a useless
organization’—surely there must be a
mistake or is_it possible that the Council is ‘slipping’?

Our 21st

Anniversary Sale
10% Discount Off
| all tees
Men’s, Women’s
and
Children’s Shoes
For 2 Days

“pros. SHOES

GREEN LANTERN BLDG.
409 Barrington St.

 

 

 

 

 

‘Incompetent group’, ‘clique’ and
such terms are not nice to use and far
better results can be accompuished by
the use of terms which imply a boost to
such an important body as the Council.

 

JOHN TOBIN & Co

LIMITED

Well.now I am not out to give you
a lecture—far be it trom me to lecture
anyone On any subject unless it happened to be a subject such as ‘New
Models in Clothes for 1933’ and then
we would be ‘right at home’.

And talking about clothes are you
aware that the ten per ‘students’ discount’ has been in operation at Gordon
Isnor’s store for at least fifteen years,

Wholesale Grocers

Tea Merchants

You simply make yourself known
and the discount is yours, needless to
say we cannot afford to give it without
something to show that you are attending Dalhousie.

HALIFAX, CANADA

And please remember men’s ‘‘Fit-U”’
clothes are sold in Halifax City only
at Gordon Isnor’s, 69 Gottingen St.

 

 

Inter-Club Championship Wrestling Meet

MONDAY, MARCH 20th.
8 BOUTS

_ADMISSION 75 CENTS

eit ee

Dal Students admitted free on

  

presentation of D. A. A. C. Tickets

 

 

 
