   
 
 

 
 

Official Siadant Pablication at Dalhousie University

HALIFAX, NOVA SCOTIA, OCTOBER 27th, 19382.

No. 4

 

 

AMPUS

 

Mr. Justice Russell
Speaks at Law

   
  
    
    
  
 
 
   
 

 

 

 

ICAL SOCIETY SCORES STUDENT’S COUNCIL

 

$9,000 Gift to |Library Operates| Passes Motion Ob
Dalhousie Library Under New Rules

consulting with the Ad- brary has undergone a complete

 
   
  
 
  

jecting to the

  
   
  
    
 
  
  

| OMMENT School The Carnegie Corporation During the summer months, Council Ban On
| Wii ae ts have signified tl tent the MacDonald Me ial LiVJ i Shinte Gut Value of Law fe signified their intention,}the MacDonald Memorial Li All Hotel Dances

Professors. visory Group on Canadian Col- housecleaning, shelves re-| I sc attain ise thes the Medical
eens Lae oa lege Libraries, of giving Dal-|arranged, new books put out for] So¢; iety of Tatroncte U iniversizy
rae ay Place—Room 19. Last Friday at noon the first housie Univ ersity $3,000 annual-|use, and new rules made. at a meeting held Friday er it
ive Shs ~ Prof.—C. L. Bennett. lecture from the newly inauger- ly for the three years beginning] In the past, the Library has] jseq the action of the Stude | ts"
arpa ~ Class—English 10. ated Russell chair of Law was 1952-33, for the purchase of been rigidly divided off into Council in regard to the pas
Pa fof ~ Act. 1.—+sonly one}. - delivered at the law school by books. _ irs sections for men and women that all student dances ehatd
«Enter King’s Freshman in full} Judge Benjamin Russell, in Certain conditions are attach-|students. This has been done];, the new Gymnasium. Foc
Pst es -tegalia. whose honour the Chair was ed to the gift: away with, and seating is now over two iiss Pe eee wore
: Tee ‘Note for you, sir.’ founded. The occasion was one 1. The University must guar-|optional. This was felt neces-|}andied to and fro as indignant
ely Exit Freshman ce which will be long remembered antee that it allocates no less|sary because of the necessity of medical students fou d e a
hi - Prof. Bennett reads note to|by those present. After a few than hitherto for the purchase|free movement and access to all with what the A foi ne
Ex ae “himself, frowns, then chuckles,|introductory remarks by Pro- of books and periodicals. the books on the open shelves. | sentatives have détic ee

a

     
       
    
      
     
    
      
        
      
   

r hy
‘

+
A hy

age finally reads the note to the
~ labs

“Joe College regrets that he
will be unable to keep his ap_ ~peintment at this hour.”

. Prof. Bennett, very wittily,—
“Now the world can go on!”

—_——
Now» we know why we can

 

-mever get the Hall phone

_ number—why the line is always busy. Two prominent
aoronne collegians with time
on their hands camp on the
shone and engage in brilliant
everenten. ee all the

of the law school and a former

experiences during the course
of his life of eighty-three years}:
—as'a' student as a teacher,as|

  

fessor Smith, the present dean
pupil of Judge Russell, and by
the President of the University,
the lecture opened. Those who
attended were amply rewarded.

Judge Russell, who with the
late Dean Weldon, was one of
the founders of Dalhousie Law
School, has had a varied and
chequered career and his many

a politician, as a judge-are of}
intefise: interest and have lately |.

 

DR. H. L. STEWART.

 

Dr. Stewart Gains

World Wide Re
cognition for
Latest Book

Reviewed: by Sam Margolian.

Augustine. Birrell once said

  

mittee,

2. The money

liberal arts.
for technical, or special, books.

3. Payment of the grant in
the second and third years is
contingent upon the above conditions, and also on the adequate
cataloguing of books previously
received.

Ini the-optnion of President
Stanley, and of the Library Comthis gift fits extremely
well inthe needs of the Library,

 
  
 
 

is to be used
solely fo. the pu.chase of books|behind the desk, and must be
and cu.:ent pe:iodicals for general unde rgraduate reading in| erence books will be on the open
It is not to be used

Reserved books will be kept

signed for on all oecasions. Refshelves, and may be taken home
kines seemed to meet with general approval last year, and will
be continued. On overnight
books the fine will be 10 cents,
if returned after 10 a. m. the
next morning, and if books are
kept out without good reason
the. fine. will be increased to 50
cts. per day until. the book is
returned.

The idea of fines is not punish
 
   

all dances to the v
nasium.

This make the second time
since the Students’ Council passed their motion that one of the
Faculties has disapproved their
action. Last Thursday a number of the law students got
together and decided that they
would not be bound by the action of the Council in this matter.

The action of the Medical
Society was deemed expedient

varsity gym
because of ‘the storm of protest

raised by such a large proportion
of their body. Deter mined ac
 

  

 
  

| been ‘recourited in his inimitable|that “books cannot be subjectber? TA bee Seg ian ed to a-truer test than <will they
|bear talking -about??" With
of this as a canon of cr*ticism, ‘Dr.
ude, -| Stewart's, Modernism, Past. and}
‘Present can face the world ass ii ir}
ed of a safe reception.

and comes most opportunely.

Fashion Sa to
Be-Feature: Of ~
First. Glee Club

ment or revenue. but quite impersonal and for the ..general.
good. _ This money. is: used. to
teplace old, worn and lost books. |

The hours have.been rearrang='
-led-to give more time to the
student. These are:

    
    
 
  
 
   
  

‘tion was ‘taken in “the Passing
of two significant motions. First
that the Medical ‘Society go on
record as disapproving | thé -action of “the student™ Ti répreséntatives on the councit in regard to

 

 

G _
hl ss 2
ne GS

(ness “Af fof hi wide: learning and: native

    
     
  

    

    
 

Nas ever away from the football

team, What this College needs
said ‘Red’ when interviewed
ae a Gazette staff reporter, is
more co-operation on the part
of the studen'! body and less
friction between managers and

The team blame’ intelligence. =

  

briefly the valuable function
which the teacher of law exercises upon the administration
of justice pointing to the recent
refusal of Felix Frankfurter to
become a judge ot the Supreme
Court of United States in order
to remain a teacher of law at

    
      
         
    

important in the matter with
which it deals, and startling in

its. conclusions to many, es
pecially so to those who have

considered themselves safe in
the arms of orthodoxy, whether
Protestant or Catholic. It can
safely be said of it that it is, to

 

Our Fretbebiaa «ik shave: ‘proved
themselves to be very versatile
indeed. .On the night of the
Freshman Glee Club the girls
are to model clothes in a fashion
show being presented by Mrs.
J. H. C. Murdock, proprietor of
Murdock’s exclusive dress shop

 
 

 

 

Sat.

Sunday

8.45 a. m. to 1.00 p. m

2.30 p.m. to 5.80 p. m

 

Rev. E. E. Annand

Passes in loronto

 

“Modernism is -a_ doughty |’ Mos to. pie. dances, and secondly ‘that Mr.
their ere “Red” et During the lecture he reviewed book, controversial by. nature, Fri. 8-45. a. m. to:5.30_p. m.. |J--S: Robertson go~ before the
this was the first time that he

council ~ and ~ explain’ why * the
Medical Society did not want
to hold their annual~ dance: in
the Gym.

COT er Bay
First Parade

 

 

4 " players so that the team can| Harvard as a fitting tribute to)adopt a phrase which Dean|situated in the Queen Hotel 7 ‘s
ee play one for all and all for one.|the ‘teaching profession. Next|Church used in connection with| Building. This dress shop is! It ts wicks: a tection of regret A Company’ s parade last
Fah Selah. . a case of lasting interest to Nova| the Oxford Movement ‘a protest | well known about town for the|that we hear of the p: issing of | Wednesday night was so poorly
acs es ox Seotians—the case of Rex vs|/against the loose unreality of|fine quality of dresses and coats|an old Alumnus of Dalhousie] attended that it almost makes
ie is Is it a weakness of the Com-| Uniacke was discussed. Finally ordinary religious morality.’ A-|sold there and any girl who| Rev, E. E. Annand, B. A., whojus sick merely to write about
“a merce Boys, or do they just Judge Russell spoke of the prin-|bove all, the book is a sincere|wants to buy anything in that|was stricken while attending alit. Fifteen cadets, four without
ms naturally back out of dates with | ciples which should underly the Continued on page 4, line is advised to try there first. Synod in Toronto, Ontari io. Inj uniforms, showed up for the
Bs" 2 Beall eiels? appointment of judges to the Mrs. Murdock advertises ex-|the early years of his ministry |initial parade. They were put
Ess J aan bench. The lecture throughout > ‘ tensively in both the Handbook|he was pastor at the Coburg through their paces, by Mr.
KE. ‘ English 2 is as unruly as ever.|was one of absorbing interest Memorial Service and the Gazette and deserves| Road Church, Halifax. Later} Hill of the R.C. R.
Ee The other day Professor Bennet,|and those present began to the patronage of every Dal-|he laboured well in the West,| Of course it was exhibition

   
 
  
     
  
   
    
   
   
    
    
 
   
   
    
   
     
   
    
  
   
  
  

trying to stop the usual stamping
threatened, first to tell them
the next theme only two days
ahead of time then to demand
twenty-one themes, then _ to
pluck the whole class, but the

understand why so many of his
former pupils have attained honored and important positions in
life. Many of these men most
of them now no longer young
were present and were no doubt

to be Held in Gym

There will be a University Memorial Service for those Dalhousians who fell in the War,

housie girl.

Miss Marguerite Redden, the
well known dancer is to assist
Mrs. Murdock and three of

Miss Redden’s young pupils are

to dance in between the style

and his final charge was at Port
Perry, Ont. Below we publish
one of the many beautiful poems
which have come from his pen.

THE RIVER.

week, and a civic half+holiday
and there was a football game
in Wolfville, and most of us were
just back from MgNab’s Island.
Let's hope that it will be better
next time.

applause continued in spite of|carried back many years to a 1914-1918, Thursday, showings. This poem 1s from the ben ofthe labs Seriously, boys, when you join
ak, time whem they were students} November 10, at 12.15 Afternoon dresses, tea dresses,| Rey. E. E. Annand, B. A.. whose iast|an organization, the best in the
Bey ee of the man whom they now saw| p.m. evening gowns, evening w raps pastoral charge was Port Perry, Ont.,| college at that, you owe it to

The next time Dal
before them.

The meeting will be

and the very latest in winter

but who had given many years of. Serytce
to the West.

yourselves and your officers to

; : The poem ts ins a

housie’s Peeping Tom At the end of the lecture three held in the Gymnasium _ |coats, are to be shown by the] 4. piew of the Ul Appelle ; iy 7 {turn out at every parade. Re
makes any more cracks | fousing cheers were given for| Building. handpicked models. Many of] Round Lake Indian School. member that your officers and

at the writer his name the veteran who has brought so A ten minute address these designs will be distinctive a eee 2 your instructors give a lot of
, : . . . * slo j hoes, sen des 1e dying day's low whispering, cee Nn a ae Tp wan)

will be published in the much honor to himself, to the| will be given by Dr. Mac models imported directly from Dione Cue netident Cov, time to the C. O. T. C., and

Gazette.

—_

Doris Nickerson—lI can't see

Jean Brittain—Silly, what do

 

been taken over by the
pair.

_Clarke-Nickerson
Shades of Ducky!

bench and to his — university.
As one gazed upon him while
the audience sang ‘Should Auld

Agamemnon to Nestor
man would to God that even as

upon thee; would that it had
come upon some other man
and those wert amid the young.”

 

 

f
~* ¥;

{
oe 7 a Fs 4 ay
ia a ™ px
iene ee nee

   
 

 

a a >

= _ +

ee a ae es
q ‘

Mechan, and it is hoped
that Dr. A. S. Mackenzie
will be able-to be present

The Armistice Day Com
members of the University will attend.

 

"WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 9th.

8.00 p. m. to

. es
is ‘ é
1 
Paris and it will be worth while
for every girl to see the fashion
show and to pay a visit to this

fashion show will be Mr. Edward
Matheson, the singer, who will

Glee Club in the hear future ‘so

watch the notice boards and inns

your Gazette.

2.00 a m.

The river rests ’mid shadowed hills,
The nestling bird its vesper trills,
A lakeside lullaby.

And feyer passes en): the brain
And heart is young and brave again

Hast thou fairer skies, more soothing
shades,

ilent hills, or cooling glades

By radiant angels trod?

they feel pretty cheap after a
demonstration such as we had
Wednesday night.

c= Acquaintance be Forgot’ one] to read the list of names. | charming shop in the near future. Watch the notice board for
oS he football players ever keep dod ok @ a f P id S j Hb A ial ke eitt : A spirit breathes from hill and sky, ges nae ge ‘po 2%
Se, “a was reminded of the words o resident Staniey will be An added attraction with the] Cithedral stillness, calm: orders; get your uniforms as
| — clean. “Old| in the Chair.

soon as possible; and turn out

to a man next Wednesday at

you suppose scrub teams are for. the spirit is in thine own breast mittee of the Senate have | favor the audience with several] ealed by thy mystic balm. 8 o'clock sharp.
! = thy limbs might obey and thy| arranged the service, | vocal selections. Oh, River, thou whose streams make| If any reader should be in
= The big brother- big sister |strength be unabated. But| which will be brief. This interesting programme is} | glad doubt as to whether or not he
act of Harris-Atherton has | the common lot of age is heavy It is hoped that all | to be presented at the Freshman|_ The city of our God, should join the C. O. T. C., let

him go to our famous debater,
Ray MeCarthy, and be convinced.

HAGARTY ORCHESTRA

COUPLE $3.00

 

 
ee mee ee ee ¥ we p :
DALHOUSIE GAZETTE ee | October 27th, 1932

   

 

 

     
 

Scanning Our
Contemporaries.

TIT BITS |

mplexity

The Library.

 

COMMENT | Co

Mr. De Vaio>ra in a new role.

Sir Walter Scott's books might be
read more widely if offered for sale in
Edgar Wallace jackets.—T¢ronto Telegram.

 

    

      
   
 

 
 

Gowns.

Founded 1869. “The Oldest College Paper in America.”

   

 

Potato Board.

   

 

    
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  

The Lytton Report.

  
  
  
   
   
  
   
   
   
   
  
   
    
   
    
   
 
  
 
 
  
    
   
 
 
    
    
  
    
    
    

And there are some people who

EDITORIAL STAFF.

 
    
  

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
   
 
    
  
 
  
   
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
   
   
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
  

 

 

 

 

 

Uninvited Guests ; e < display their intelligence by keeping
Managing Editor. a a a es Here’s the latest way to Carl) their mouths shut.—Quebec Chronicle>a EDWARD B. HIGGINS, B. A. Ottawa’s Lead, Undergraduate Clubs. your board while attending the| Telegraph.
Re : L B. 4207. University of North Dakota. Woma 18} “veneial At. .
, . : Associates. Carl Peterson, of St. Thomas, " roe an Beer
+. ae * ELIZABETH MARCH hi d 800 | , bake i edie Fe ee ek Head-line.
Fas Ni ca iy gel ee pera ° i shi Jushels Of potatoes] Mz that’s t eason she is
te i. Rh oo SAM MA RGOLIAN Mr. De Valera in a new role. ee ot to ate University for aiion he Pein: Torah, eae oY ak
a Nor: | tere. gent MAR , All Dalhousians will read with will receive board the test of —_
ne ve | NEWS STAFF. ree 23 The opening address which|great pleasure the amnounce-|the year. Peterson and a broth- ee ee Bee fe
News Biitor. "RUTH CRANDALL| Mit-, De Valera’ delivered as)ment of a gift from the Carnegie| er operate a large farm near St.| sy Arthur Keith. os
; HAROLD |) EGAN > race B. 9746 pene e ne League nee Foundation to the University |p homas and the brother is tak- ia ge
B80 “ oie , bly, has had a very mixed]|Library. This donation comes|: sal shel Labor rids us of three great evils—
Pos Associates. Bia ve : wes )ing a carload of 800 bushels to r Fids ree great evils
ee - Robert Batt a Merle Purtill reception. In the first place/at a time when the Library is in] North Dakota State in the hope Eererey, Vice: sand pnnui.—Voltaire,
| = «Robert Dorman ee oe ge it was received at the Assembly|the greatest need of assistance |he may obtain his board also. The usual kidding aside, 1989 ¢rad.
iy)? “> gis Dorey Say: | | Marion Wkca in silence, which indicates the and we feel. sure that this gift! The University of N. D. is not} uates seem to take the realistic view
Saeete  s. _  Johp ieee se | success Of his forcible home-|will be used to make improve-|alone in this new system of|A Princeton poet says the first task
ae 16 t4 Hugh! aa truths. Straight talk to the ments and additions, and so] joard payment for the Normal oe is to find father a job.—Detroit
= _ Sports Editor } GL ae MM JOST. League in indeed rare. He | bring the collection up to date|of Saskatoon is offering similar} “°°” pee nes
as © > ee : B. 9746, pleaded vigorously for a en that it may be of increased opportunities to enterprising stu-| Three American universities in ihree
ae eee B.2 , - ie : compromising adhesion to the utility to the students. We also dents. weeks have conferred honorary degirees
a Xa! Associate — ae principles of the Covenant. The] note the large number of under- Ere on Premier Bennett. Why this sudden
_ Borden Stoddard DeTArE Dorothy Vernon League cannot live on the com- graduates using the library this ee i the prime minister of
Pise i BUSINES : _ [mendations of satisfaction that] year and we are led to believe ‘‘Bison’”’ Banned. Pah aa ace nie ete ournal,
as Business Manager Asst. Business Monae ‘ it receives from the friends of|the some of the Freshmen have
DONALD A. MAHON ee ee +) te mem, Faust, rct#in|heard of the Noel Massdcre of] Publication of the Bison the
aa , B. 1826. Pa ae the support and confidence of | last year. lereraduate publication of the °
Pape Lo Ee te Britain : sas undergraduate publication of the
i M. J. Pear een ga the public opinion of the world. oo University of Buffalo has been Medical Note
: Dave Allen ; I M De ‘Val ’ ee 5 = een
+t is ~ _- Proof Editor. nt ae ts ct ae cme Coane banned by the Student Activities ————
en eee ERIC D. MURRAY “no State iS powerfu _ enoug E Committee, because of alleged
“ ea League if the League and its the University there is a section| The chairman of the committee|C hair, the Student Medical SocSe ~ Editorial office B. 5676 peoples are determined that the

charged that the magazine had
printed statements and jokes
reflecting on the character of
several students and campus
organizations.”

The “Bison’’ was severely
criticized a year ago and siispension threatened whea several
jokes, printed in the magazine
had received nation-wide publicity over a radio network.

 

il b n] regarding Academic Costume
—= Covenant shall be upheld. which reads: ‘‘Undergraduates,
: tT ¢ | ie, Matriculants and Special StuCOUNCIL OR STUDENT OPINION? The Lytton Report. dents attending more than one
- Recent events following closely on the action of the Students’| Japan, by her recent action} Class are entitled to wear gowns
Co Li banning all down-town dances would seem to indicate, |! Officially “recognizing’’ Man-|at lectures and ‘all meetings of
aa xe tt ni ete that this move does not meet with student|Chukuo, the new State which|the University.” It is a shame
: Bova ram sa ae ee alee poweriul student bodies in the|2@S declared its independence of|that the students do not agree
TBE Oval, a: jis-| Chima, has announced to the|]with this idea. It is felt by
. cry have signified in no uncertain terms their strong dis world that a Manchurian prob-|many that if everyone wore
approval. . Beye abc phe tet _ Bad ss Ze
ae The first action came from the Law students who, in protest lem 6 a thing of the past. How-|/gowns it vee ld lend an aca
__ against the ban, definitely discarded all plans for holding the famous | °V¢" the rest of the world is by|demic atmosphere to the Uniho Se Dane ‘ this year. Moreover, even more definite action has|2° means silenced. According versity, and Dalhousie has alae i ae in the Forrest Building to point out to the Council|* Lord Lytton, this Japanese|walys' kept to that idea by petatu. ¢: eh satis step which they have taken in over-ruling student |PTemise, namely, that Man-/mitting the undergraduates (o
ant 8 + eae Fhe Medical Society has also evidenced their dis- chukuo had created itself and|wear gowns. The trouble is
Sean Pos tie action of the Council by a motion of censure; and|™M4de a treaty with them and/that the students themselves
user ova 0 t Bee | hence that the matter was no|have not felt the same way

_. are making representation to the Council to that effect. er. bait tts. Bix seat
meee “The suggestion advanced at this “famous” council meeting longer open for discussion; if not}about it. By wearing a gown
ee dae, the Commer wee ce Representative is worthy of serious consideration. |*¢cePted might give rise to new |one could save the wear and tear
Bee a ga ae ed a motion to hold a plebiscite in order to ascertain | difficulties. The Lytton Report |of clothes and also be properly
te Boi the weston: but itis si nificant that the Council | W@S Vatiously received in differ-|dressed for academic work. This
Se OP alta. shoe busitiess’ of bhi cise. ent countries. In China, the would also eliminate the comaes) ek ie Cedi ure § 2. RPUDIC. 15 against the demilitarisa- | petition in expensive clothing
Mee Mee pe wae A Seba aruinaae tion of Manchuria; in France, which so many undergraduates
Se Pon a _|the government is in the main|consider necessary. If all of us
PRE Le A Ee eer ees le a ale less favorable to Japanese Im-|had to wear gowns those who

ee ae ee Ee ak S Ho stronger e aCe A THAIS - (Ly + 4° ; . ;
enna ieee Be : representing SGNe anion oe a te perialism than it has heretofor|have shabby clothes would not
By

lety met on October 20th, 1932.
Ordinary routine business occupied the gather ing. A special
meeting convened on October
Z2lst, at which the following
motions passed, That the Medical Society go on record as
disapproving of the action— in
regard to dances—of the representatives of the Students’ Counen,”

The second motion read Eat
J. S. Robertson go before the
Students’ Council and give reasons why dance should not be
held in the gymnasium.”

 

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
   
   
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
   
  

Students Benefit from Price
War.

The students at the University
of Wisconsin are reaping the
benefits of a real price war
among the. stores which cater
to the’ college trade, according
to the ‘Daily Cardinal’ the
official publication. Reductions
in prices. are_from five. to ten
percent in most cases, on books, |
stationary and meals. In previous years the custom among
some of the book stores was to
give sales checks with all goods.
sold which could be redeemed
at five percent of ther face
value. Like Dalhousie there has
also been a co-operative book
store on the Wisconsin campus
which has redeemed its sales
checks at a profit. The competition and desire for student} Carl Stoddard was elected
patronage is so great that in'President of the First Nias
one case a cafeteria lowered its} Medica] Class. Hairy Wilson
price ten percent to students.|is the Secretary. ; |

NEW
WINTER
OVERCOATS

Se

 

Commerce Society

To Meet To Night

 
  
  
 
 
 
   

ee

 
  
 

There will be a meet ing of the
Commerce Society on Thursday,
Oct. 27, at 64 Edward St. One
of Halifax’s business men. will
address the members.

i soe

 

     
  
    
 
  
   
   
  
  
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
    
     
   
  
  
  
    
   
  
  
    
  
   
     
    
 
   
  
  
     
    
  
  

Dee ee ie ee ne been; in the United States the|be so conscious of the fact. It
ey can rightiully disregard those who elected them? And do Report has had a favorable|would be a step in the right
reception and is regarded as a|direction if the students thembulwark to the Stimson doctrine. | selves would start wearing gowns
The Report, which strongly con-| rather than waiting for the authdemned Japan, recommended] orities to make it compulsory.
the evacuation of Manchuria by | Even if it were made compulsory
the Japanese troops. it would give Dalhousie an
In the opinion of the members| academic air, which so few uniof the Commission, international | versities on this continent have.
co-operation gives the best hope
of a solution. If the authority a
of the Covenant and the Kellogg Hie
Pact i$ insufficient, then the} Uninvited Guests.
fatal conclusion that arms are Many comments were heard
still the arbiter cannot be avoid-| about the large number of outed. The recognition of Man- siders at the Students’ Council
chukuo by Japan need not, and|Dance and the general feeling
must not, be allowed to denieve| seemed to be that they were the
what was its principal aim—the uninvited guests.’’ The cost
defeat of the report. of the dance was born by the
ner students and they naturally ex
“Ponsa:
aes “the : . .

a degree that, in a true dictatorial manner, they may endeavour to
_____ force the results of their hasty deliberations upon the student body?

feel that supreme wisdom has become theirs alone to such

v

a

Laurie Teasdale is President
a ce | | _teasde ‘ sident
Ree A plebiscite wouid solve the question. eee ae

es Class. James Muir is Secretary.

Bee, _* MUSIC FOR DALHOUSIANS.

In many Universities there are adequate opportunities for the
undergraduates to hear music by artists of high standard but in

_ the past at Dalhousie we have not been blessed with such good
fortune. Now the Philharmonic Society has co-operated with the
University to the extent of making a special membership fee for
students. This is indeed a progressive move and we feel sure that
every student who i$ the least interested in music should avail
himself of this most excellent opportunity of hearing godd music
played by artists of the highest repute. Every year the Philharmonik Society sponsors concerts in which some uf the most famous
____ musicians of the world appear. Formerly the membership fee of
the Society made it impossible for many undergraduates to hear
these performances, but now with this Nit et aa from the
ee cae ee that a large number will join and take ad Oitawals Land: pected to aveall tie diovan:
Paes Tire Philharmonic Society of Halifax is able to bring world-| What will be the kind of possible, but there sy hchabeitewwg:ts
_ famous artists to the city through the services of the Community imperial evolution which wil||0Utsiders present that the stag
~ Concert Association. During the last year several most eminent | take place if the principles en-|!ime was increased to unwieldy

 

a
i

+.
<

-—s musicians appeared before Halifax audiences, and plans have|dorsed at Ottawa have in future | Size and hindered the dance | ;
Pe already been made for more this season. We urge all Dalhousians|a more extended application— | Considerably. We hope that From the lowest price con____ to support and co-operate with this organization which has offered | This question has been tren-| there will be steps taken to pre
this service to you.

DALHOUSIE AND FOOTBALL.

chantly discussed in the New| Vent this occurring at any more
York Times by Sir Arthur Salter |Of the University dances this
The immediate consequences, | *¢™:

he ps whether for good or evil, will es
Despite an unauspicious opening, the football season at Dal- be on a very modest scale. For

'  housie has at last aroused part of the former interest in that grand | example, the wheat duty is little Undergraduate Clubs.
_ old British game. The glorious win over Wanderers last Saturday |more than a sham, Today the

a has done wonders to stir up the apathetic interest of the student empire as a whole produces more activities of the undergraduate
my. - body. so ’ | Wheat than it consumes and|society known as the Dawson
oe The reasons, for this lack of interest onthe part of the students,|hence a tax on foreign wheat Geolovy Club: . There are sever:

» are plainly evident. Strangely enough, Dalhousie uadergraduates| imports into Great Britain will} a] ae small groups within the
-_-will not support a losing team, aind in this respect they are certainly |noi have any effect on prices at University which promote the

_ , not acting in a true sportsmanlike manner. A team should be all. On the other hand the main stud eS ae ate ect in par_ great in either defeat or victory, and its supporters should boost principles upon which the settle- Fal and the ee Club has

_ their college representatives on the gridiron—winning or losing.| ments are based throw light on breads become very dotina ai
_ Nevertheless Dalhousie wants a winning team; and now that evi. the future development of the though still only a new organiza
_ dence points in that direction, “fair weather” fams are once again| British Empire. First of all, the tion. The undergraduates take
conference demonstrates the at- keen interest in such societies

me Bote ate ~. games. : 2a

Too little credit is given to the coaches and students who turn tainment of full equali of fa he |
— out day after day and work hard to develop a team, and when the status by the Civitan ok oo ee ae ed Je
st idents give such lackadiasical support, can you blame the team incidentally the fragility of the university life and get the great_ for lacking that extra punch which makes a winner? A place}bonds of empire, since a cus-| est benefit from all it has to offer
on the first team is a cost of glory, and more competition for places|tomer does not usually consider
on that squad should be stimulated. We just have to go back patriotism when negotiating a
1 ee years to find the Dalhousie oval jammed with 5,000 football bargain. Probably the most imtans —cheering their teamson to victory. _ portant thing which the Ottawa] world in general. World policy
A football revival is taking place—a revival which would Agreements made elear is this:|was the decisive factor in the
ee tly accelerated by Dalhousie entering a team in the Inter-]The dominant motive force in}recent change of British policy,
; the movement for protection] and according to Sir Arthur

and preferences has _been de-|*'it will be the decisive factor in
rived from the practice of th, its future development.’’

sistent with quality. . .
To the utmost in luxury
and distinction. . . .
We have them at $25.00,
a price below which our
quality standard could not
be maintained and at

$30.00 and $35.00.

We note with interest the

 

 

i.

 

Shane’s Mens Wear

30 Spring Shop Garden Road

STUDENTS GETA DISCOUNT OF 10%

 

     
    
  
  
 

  

    

ine
at. :

  

Faaa"S
See es ye.
ie 7 y : c 7 . he f ly ee

ar as -. - i vet +
oa i

e aa oe

  
 
 

  

 

 

 
   
 
 
  
   
      
   

 

BOB BAIRD, born Aton in "Chaian

., schooled there, and at Frederic
- Normal. Taught 1 for a
le, engered school in ’27 and grad_ uates this s spring. Sixth season on the
“=u pale ‘ tain last year, and sole
rem: sutvivor in Dal of the team
“to Vancouver several years

Soe a .
r me Ea about 170.

niet - COLWELL Cop. STEWART, born
at 6% ae Dalhousie, N. B., from there he
aaa s artae Mount A in 1926, where he

“Ln starred in football and track. Grad
tet take: Law, graduates this Spring.

k

C2
as

Poe e Maritime Intercollegiate Champions.
Fat ‘Third year on Dal team, can and has
xe =, played every scrum position. 6 feet

ay  talland weighs about 194.

_~-—,Ws HAROLD DAVIDSON, hails from
ng _ Broodklyn, N. Y., and Sydney, where
‘fie was educated at Sydney High.
¥ Eee Dal 1926 and got his B. Sc.
oh in "30, and entered Medicine. Six
_—s-yvears on Varsity, plays fly or fullback.
Graduates in 1934, Weighs 173.
_ Plays Basketball for Dal and Baseball
: for St. Agnes fof, Halifax).
es ee GEORGE THOMPSON, Halifax
» boy, ediicated at Bloomfield High,
ori where he learnt to play football. Entered Dal in.’29, ca tain of Freshman
7 - Team, Interfaculty Champs. Member
Ba Wok the ‘Secorid Team. Played part

 
 

ay
#
“

eee last year and playing regular

this year. Comiierce Student, individual high scorer in recent Track Meet.
Weighs 165 and plays inside right
_ tiree-quarter.

DON McRAE, born, raised and
schooled there; entered Dal in ’28 in
_ search of Doctor’s Degree and grad_ uates in . Fifth year on varsity,

d as City Representative on All_ . Canada team whic toured Japan, and
. pe ‘Captain of this year’s Varsity Team.
| Tnterfaculty Sport Manager ’30-'31,
“ex-ca tain and member of the Basketball Team. gene 6 feet 2 inches

and weighs

7 pHIEIP: “MAGONET, hails from
. th e town of Glace Bay, where he entera Eis Gscipol, entered Dal in '24, went to

San Chicago, in OKs graduin '28, See ered Dalin ’29
year Medicine. Star

1 the “undefeated Cubs of

g Pick oa eee at

     
 
     
    
   
 
   
   
   
  
   
  
 
  
   
  
 
 
 
   
 
   
  

 

x leet,
here began ‘hee
ng senior for three years at Dal
ousie. lays end three-quarters |
E ‘because. ae i tost and has a sure tackle.
. Harold is very quiet but let’s none
walk over him.

a. WALDO GOODMAN first performa ed for New Glasgow High School. He
layed two years with the Intermediates and then moved to the senior
ranks. He has been out of the game
due to injuries received in the game
against Mount Allison. Waldo ig a
. steady player, not soe but plays
a good strong gam His hobby is
eS de fiorseback riding, piihonch he has
mie never ridden a horse. Weight 170.

 

b

 

mae) A. S. PATTILLO, JR. is manager
es _of the Tigers. He is a senior in Law
ESS and knows how to handle the jury of
oe = fifteen. Art has a mind of his own
ee and none can change it. When he

says a player can't have a pair of pants
‘ he means it, He isa real manager and
ait here’s hoping success crowns his efforts.

HAL CONNOR received his early
football experience in Upper Canada
and it was there that he learned his
| - ~__ kicking, which is a great asset to his

team. He plays flying quarter and
: carried the ball well. hen Hal runs
she stops for nothing and can be dependWeight

te --ed upon to play a good game.
Be 160 Ibs.

oa! © CARL STODDARD began his footra ball at Bloomfield High. He and
a>. George have been teammates for the
ae last six years and know each others
ee plays. He has played two years
a a football, Last season he did
a lace kicking for Dal. He is fast,
ra. ear kicker and carries a sure tackle.

fees. He ae C. M.P., ‘‘He gets his

| as man. ight 140 Ibs.

es PERCY SHEPPARD. Percy ‘the
Blonde,” hails from Badger, Nfld.
sa Plays in the scrum. He played two
ae. seasons with the Memorial College,

Pe : St. John’s, Nfld. and was captain of the
“Ta team one year. Percy likes to rough

ae. it up and ‘‘can he take it.” Weight
_~ * 180 ibs.
e oe ART BAIRD is the quiet man on
the team. Plays front line in the
aoe! scrum. He played three years on the

_-__Intermediate team and plays a good

steady game. He is always on the
pall, ot kicker, and canstand the
ae rough stuff. Weight 165

 

: of DON ‘GORE hails from Detroit,

ays front line fotward and

uated 1930, Entered Dal in Fall to}
-Member of the se Mount Allison |

fall

ters; Crease, T

Dal Intermediates
Play Tie Game
With Wanderers

Dal Bite cdiaies held Wanderers’ Intermediates to 3-all
tie in their first league tussle <
Wanderers grounds Tuesday.
The game was very loose. The
Dal scrum were far superior
to that of their rivals but
fumbling in the backfield prevented scores. Dal’s lone try
was made in the first period
when Piercey fell on a _ loose
behind the enemy line.
The try was not converted by
Stoddard. Wanderers scored in
second period, when they fell
on a loose ball. Play was about
even allthrough, Piercey, Duffus, Kyte played well fpr Dal.
Bo» Schwartz capably handled | "| the whi pare
Dal. ine-up :

_

‘Piercey, Pants, |

m | Silver, Wallace, Archibald, Row-|_
is | ley, forwards; Miller, ‘Stoddard,

Crease D., halves; Kyte, Forbes,
McLeod, Magonet, three-quar-.
., fullback.

 

Dal Footballers
Bow to Acadia

Acadia University football
team defeated Dalhousie at Acadia last Wednesday by a score
of 11-8. This 1s the first time
for about 10 years that Acadia
has defeated Dalhousie on their

own field. Foote, Acadia backfield star, was responsible for
eight of Acadia’s points on well
placed kicks.

The big feature of the game
was the superb tackl'ng and all
round play‘ng of Donald Gore,
hal'ng from M’ch'gan. H's
tackl ng was deadly and broke
up many fine runs of the Acad’a
backfield. The Dal forwards led
by Capta’n McRae, Bob Ba'rd
and Jerry Tanton played a great
game. Tanton tackled hard and
many an Acad‘anp was ‘n
no hurry to rise after being
tackled. The forwards heeled
the ball ten out of twenty times
in the first period and fifteen
out of twenty-four times in the
second. Dal’s three quarter line
could not seem to function but
made long gains on well-placed
kicks.

Oe re

 

Congratulations to the Tenni
Club on having their sport made
a Major Sport. Nothing to stop]!
you now racqueteers! Let’s see
you win everything in sight.

Coaches ‘Ab” and ‘‘Fletcher’’

Smith have certainly improved
the Dal team. They deserve
all credit and congratulations for
the team’s showing Saturday
and yesterday.

 

DOUG BENT, known to the boys as
“blondie” is a newcomer to the team.
He played four years with Rothesay

“ee as Played American footbail Collegiate School atid. one season with

is younger days.
me and iikes it.

ng and never stops. “Cupid” I

He started the| Kings’ College.
ish He is a|and isa swell heeler.
tackler, bad man when he ae lbs. climbing over opponents and scores|ing touchdowns.

Doug pieys front line
e uses his 168

Doug is really a

y : rls but never lets them interfere} drop kicker but doesn’t get much
es eoraeaeee

chance to use it.

 

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

Sport Meetings
Prof. Ells wishes all stu
dents who want to play
basketball to give their
Mames to him at once.
The House League will
start about Nov. 1. Plans

 

The following column is for
the use of all managers and
athletic clubs.

There will be a SPECTAL
meeting of the wrestling club in
Mr. Stirling’s office, Tuesday at
12 sharp. All wrestlers please
note.

call for four or more teams,
games to be played Tuesdays and Thursdays under

new rules. All interested
please sign up.

All *nterested ‘n Box'ng are
urged to turi out with the
Wrestlers and get in shape,
NOW. Easier to get in shape
now than to rush things later
All interested see Doug. Murray

The Gymnasts Club will meet
Saturday at 2.30 for practice
and the Fencers Club will meet
at four. All interested in either
sport please note.

 

 

«

WillDalhousie Repeat These?
Student Support Will Help!

 

- DALHOUSIE ae CATE HA gc RU RUGBY TILE

u
Bait Gets Try Gets Try, Grant Seong TIGERS
in er MA

fine sole eae wes iN

    
  
  

Kick Soe Dro aren

43 *

SEN a COM S
> OF CEe,
%%& 2 ;

    
  
  
     
     

 

   
    
  

  

we x <ielents o
ge se Rostitis
Azer oS Ss f , E
FLY KEfaz G.
So. getore ES ie es 2 =
Ye coco SEES | ede ax ette YEP ? “EE
DP oles en Publication, Wgf the Gllege bythe Sex,
Wye ae MAE a.
aie Qt er a re
2 MySisit WINS FROM SERVICES
cc ee ree, Gy; Se Fal cA SOPHISTICATED SOPH. SOPHISTICATED SOPH. | Tigers none — Hi
| Cc Le wed ee Aggregation
tn Sf ee.
eu SS

oN
ox)

NDERERS

 
  
 
   
 
   
 
      

 

  

3
é
3
<3
S ‘
edi OU
On it
A vlw iat 3
MS So (ih |
el HS El? \ 5]
R g9/5 1D 2)
ESS lis \.
hss 8 \ PSN Ms : :
Bae - :
oH") “AND CUBS ANOS = ee
gis BS AN
© Juniors Win | ITLES
eS Intermediate |—PEBATERS DISCUP istic pe, “30 OUEST
a ch L_th Hospital| Decicds| 2%me * tn Open; ON" -|Seniors Shut
S SS eat OF Cig Qreing | er
= |S*phimeree team » we * Ser ue, sire League Tithe
Q | Tara Sty “rong ation Sean peed C4 tn
—=" *remsaan

Above is a reproduction of some of the headlines which were
featured on the Dalhousie Gazette during the years 1929-1930
It reads almost like a dream, doesn’t it. No, indeed, it is no dream
but actual reality—for Dalhousie during that year absolutely
walked away with every sport title to be had. Student interest
in every branch of athletics was never so high; and talk about
your crowds during a football game!!! The Dalhousie oval was
thronged every game with almost five thousand fans—+there to
cheer Dalhousie’s representatives on to victory.

What a difference a cheering body ot students can make in a
team’s play; it gives that little extra punch which goes to make a
winning team; when a player is almost down and out, and ready to
drop in his tracks, a hearty roar of encouragement from his fellow
classmates will make a new man of him; it will summon up that
last ounce of energy which means the difference between victory and
defeat.

Let us help repeat these headlines; a revival of interest is here.
Come and take your part in supporting your University. Don’t
be a slacker; come to the games and experience that wonderful
thrill which comes from knowing that you have done your part
to help your team to victory; know that you have done your bit.”
for your Alma Mater. WE’LL BE SEEING YOU !!!

——

October 27th, 1932 
DALHOUSIE TIGERS BOW TO ACADIA 8 TO 4i PICTURES DALHOUSIE VARSITY RUGBY TEAM|?*"'

dson Gets Lone Score for Dal in
Last Few Minutes of Play

 

ACADIA FORWARDS PLAY STERLING RUGGER
CGNNOR’S KICKING FEATURES GAME

D. A. A. C. Holds
First Meeting

On Tesla Oct: 1S. at 12
p.im.” “D. A: A. °C. held their
regular semi-annual meeting in
the gymnasium. The meeting
poorly attended. The although was ably conducted by
President Charl'e Anderson and
Secretary; Walter McKenzie.
Hal Connors Manager of Interfaculty Sport resigned and it
was with regret that the D. A.
A. C. accepted his resignation.
Hal with many other offices of
importance felt that he did not
have the time to give to this
important position. On recommendation of Potter Oyler it was
decided at the meeting that
interfaculty managers for each
sport would be appointed and
applications will be received by
the D. A. A. C. Hal Connors
was elected Vice-President.

The next business was the
appointment of a management
committee of D. A. A. C.

Dr. Bell and Dean Smith—Reelected.
Law —Whit Cameron.

Medicine—Jerry Tanton.

Engineers—Lou Christie.

Commerce—John Fisher.

Arts & Science—Rod McKintosh.

Dentistry—-Lee Allanach.

Dalhousie recently formed a
soccer club and they were granted permission to represent Dalhousie in the City Soccer League.

Milton Musgrave on _ behalf
of the Tennis team moved that
Tennis be made a major sport
at Dalhousie. It was accepted
by the executive.

 

Interfaculty Football Game Goes
To Medicine

The honor of winning the
first game of the interfaculty
league goes to Medical, who
defeated Commerce 18-0 Sat
Assisted by the advice and
voice of Davidson the Med team
scored almost at will though
Commerce fought desperately.
Features of the game were the
scoring of a try by Grey, Med
fullback, two trys by Fairstein,
and the playing of Hewat and
Zatsman. Tries were scored by
LeBrun, Fairstein (2), Wilson,
Wishard and Grey. None were
converted.

Referee, Prof. R. Ells.

Medicine: McIntosh, Hewat,
Zaisman, Goldberg, Stewart,
Archibald, Rhulan, Goodman
Johnson.

Commerce: Wishard,
Mandelstan, Krebs, Eagles, Wigmore, Wilson, McDonald, Peters, Young, Bredy, Fairstein,
Grey, Teasdale, LeBrun.

Gaum

 

5 s

Sport Briefs
On behalf of the Interfaculty
Football League the writer would
like to ask the Student’s Council
why the Teams are not perm'tted
to play on Tuesday and Thursday from 12-1 as they were

always permitted to do so.

With everything set the first
wrestling exhibitions will take
place in the lower Gym Friday
night.
most he-man sport are invited.
Don’t forget Friday night at
8 p. m. Place, Lower Gym.

Badminton is gairing in popularity like wildfire Those at
tracted to pla
iosity remain to play because of
the game itself. Remember rackets and birds are available at,
the office, try the game.

 

Under perfect weatl.er conditions Dalhousie Tigers kicked
off yesterday in the first of the
league ganes with Acadia, after
the Dal Band played “O Canada’’ from the sidelines.

The ball was run into Acadia
territory where it was fumbled.
The resulting scrum gave Acadia an advantage; they rushed
the ball to Dal 40 yd. line.
Following a penalty against Acadia, Connors, whose kicking featured the whole game, sent a
beauty to Acadia’s backfield.
The play was returned and for
the next five ninutes, play was
featured with gains bv both
sides which did not naterialize
ito any s@ores.

Finally Acadia rushed the play
to Dal 10 yd., then to Dal 5 yd,
line and Ralston went over flor
a try which was converted. Dal
kicked off and took play to Acadia
15 yd line where Acadia fought
desperately to stem Tiger’s at
tack. This ended the first period.

The second period. Acadia
kicked off. Play rolled up and
down ‘ith neither side having
any pronounced advantage.

With one of Dal’s men offside,
Acadia took a penalty kick and
their next fast play resulted
yn. their second score of the game.
Struggling and fighting desperately against their eight point
handicap, Dal forced the play
for the next few minutes into
Acadia territory, but to no
avail. For a while the Tigers
engineered a few agressive plays
bui the Acadia team gradually
forced them back to their own
t irty yard line and held them
there despite the magnificent
kicking of Hal Connors and the
tackling of Gore Ralston of
‘Acadia made several attempts

_|to break through the Dal defence _

but was stopped by Gore.

Dal then rushed play to Acadia. ten yard line, but Acadia
strengthened and kicked out.
The resulting scrum gave Davidson the ball and playing heady
football he engineered himself
into a position in front of
Acadia’s goal on the 26 yard
line and kicked a beautiful field
goal.

Dal Line-up: Fullback, Davidson; three-quarters, Magonet,
Murray, Connor; halves, Oyler,
Drover, Thompson, Gore; forwards, McRae, Sheppard, Art
Baird, Bob Baird, Bent, Tanton,
Stewart.

Acadia Line-up: Fullback,
Tedford; halves. Wilson, Foote,
Ralston; ise wien ee Fountain, Shaw, Goudy, Boutilier;
forwards, Harvey, McNair, Sanford, Gunter, Anderson, U ‘nrah ,
Porter.

Referee Evans, Navy.

FLY OVER
DALHOUSIE

REGULAR FLIGHTS
$2.00

SPECIAL RATE TO
DAL STUDENTS.

A GROUP OF TEN OR MORE

$1.50 each
HALIFAX AIRPORT

DON W. SAUNDERS, Instr.
JOIN DAL. FLYING CLUB

“T can't
The best I can do

“*No, sir,’’ said the clerk,
give you a room,

All interested in the|{0r you is to give you half of a ptivate

dining foom. There’s a screen across
it, and a lady has the other half, but
,y reckon she won’t bother you.’
Thirty minutes later he ran into the
lobby, wild-eyed and pale.
“Hey;’’ he yelled to the clerk, ‘
woman is dead!
‘*T know it,’

‘that

’ said the clerk, ‘‘but how

because of cur-] did you find out?”

Doctor (inquiring after boy who
| swallowed a half dollar): ‘““How is the
boy today?”’

Anxious Mother—‘‘No change yet.”

 

 
NES ae ae EA

—— |

   

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

TIGERS TRIUMPH OVER

ae Scientific Lectures on Cure of Cancer| Kings College |Dalhousians Lose
or) Given by Noted Specialists at |Team Meets First} To St. George’s

October 27th, 1932

OLD RIVALS

Varsity Defeats Wanderers 3-0 To
Make Three Cornered Tie In

 

 

Soo

   
 

2

  

4 + a
a a

A Mates
7 *

 

 

Mee x Monday evening before a large
; and interested audience a film
ad dealing with the treatment of
Re cancer was shown in the Gym: nasium. Speakers of the evebs ning were the Honorable Dr.
c George H. Murphy Provincial

“ Minister of Health; Dr. H. K.
viene MacDonald Dalhousie Profeses sor of Surgery and Dr. Ralph
bao P. Smith Provincial Pathologist
es Dr. H. G. Grant. new Dean of
i. the Faculty of Medicine under
Me. the auspices of which the film
. was presented was in the Chair.

.* *

The film itself dealt with the
recent advances of medical
science in the treatment of can
7

et te cer by irradiation. This method
Phir 15 of treatment which has proved
Ree most effective is unfortunately
ne limited. however to certain
ie types of the disease.

Dr. Ralph Smith speaking on
the history of cancer gave his

sg,
ae

: audience a most interesting sumPape mary of the more important exAse periments by which scientific
me _research has attempted to con
 

trol cancer and learn its cause.
These experiments included
those in which the disease was
transplanted from one animal
to another and those which endeavoured to prove whether or
not cancer can be hereditary.
Research had found that cancer
would develop if chronic irritation were present; that it was
not caused by a germ.

“This. century holds forth the
greatest chance of finding a
Th cure for cancer,’ Dr. Smith
- ——s stated, declaring that more ac
tual headway had been made
against the disease within the
last thirty years than in the
previous centuries. Though this
- is encouraging the fight can
_ only succeed if greater effort
and study are put upon the tz

  
   
  
  
   
  
  
  
   
  
  
   
   
   
    
   
  

Bs

    
  

   

oe ; pn 5

  
   
  
    
  
   
 
 
  
  
     
 
  
    
  
 
  
  
  
    
 

 

es Dal Gym

 

spoke on “The Cancer Situation
in Nova Scotia.”’ While acknowledging that the cause of
cancer was not understood Dr.
Murphy emphasized the fact
that the disease was curable if
treated in its early stage.

Nova Scotia, Dr. Murphy said
has the highest cancer mortality
in Canada. This could be accounted for by the fact that this
province had a very. high percentage of middle-aged people
who are especially susceptible to
the disease.

The speaker advised yearly
examination as as_ excellent
method of combatting cancer.
Radium Treatment is administered at the Victoria General
Hospital and very valuable results have been obtained. During the past five years over 900
persons have received treatment.
In order that further study may
be made of this vital situation
and to study ways and means of
establishing a cancer clinic in
the province a committee of
eminent surgeons and medical
men has been appointed. Dr.
Murphy praised Dalhousie for
its work in public health education. Much however remains
to be done and the Department
of Health is bending every effort
to improve the situation stated
Dr. Murphy in conclusion.

Dr. H. K. MacDonald of
Dalhousie in his address on
“Cancer Prevention ’”’ said that
though cancer appeared to be
increasing. this could partly be
attributed to better methods of
discovering cancer. and to the
years that had been added to
man’s life-span. Dr. MacDonald also stressed the importance
of treating cancer in its early
_stage and the necessity of yearly
ae teal examinations because of
this. . 0h

Is Offering
Sensational 
- - - - Bargains

A Beautiful Selection of Class Dresses
will be offered on next Saturday at....

greatly reduced prices.

ly

   

   

 

Discount on all
Class Dresses on

O next Saturday

Defeat

Lose to St. F. X. by 11-0

At Antigonish, on Saturday,
Oct. 22, the King’s College rugby
team met their first defeat of the
sédson, when the team from
St. F. X. vanquished them, 11-0.
The field was extremely muddy,
and spoiled. many good chances
of the three-quarter lines. The
game was hard, and, except for
some outstanding plays of the
Xaverian forwards, it was very
even. The scrums were balanced, the ball being received
the same number of times by
each team. The outstanding
players for Kings. were Cole,
Muggah and. Worrell.

Line-up: Forwards, Archibald,
Pratt, Tanton, Smith, Hart, Regan, Andrew, Graven; Halves,
Smith, Crosby; Three-quarters,
Dyer, Muggah, Morris, Cole;
Fullback, Worrell.

 

Gyro Club to
Hold Dance on
October 31st

On the night of Oct. 3lst the
Gyro Club will hold their annual
ball at the Nova Scotian Hotel
in the form of a Hallowe’en
dance.

By all reports this dance is
to be the best one yet held by the
Club and anyone who is looking
for a good time on the night
when spooks and black cats are
out would be wise to try the
Nova Scotian.

This is not a costume dance
and tickets may be procured
from members of the Gyro Club.

_ | MURDOCH'S EXCLUSIVE
aa DRESS SHOP
Under Personal Management of

Be | 3 Mrs. J. H. C. Mardoch

 

These Dresses have the Quality and....

Style that can only be obtained at

MURDOCH’S

Exclusive Dress Shop
107-109 HOLLIS STREET
Queen Hotel Building

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Aces by Score 3-2

St. George's Aces’ won a 3-2
victory over Dalhousie University in a regular fixture of the
Dennis Cup soccer competition
played on the South Commons
Saturday. Although on the
short end of the score the Dal
eleven, newcomers to the soccer
code, gave their more experienced opponents a_ stiff battle.
Their fast moving forwards, capably supported by House at
centre half, had thle Aces, defenders bewildered and it was
no surprise when they took the
lead after ten minutes of play
when Gladwin gave Levy no
chance with a gréat shot.

The “‘Aces’’ should have tied
the score sodn after when Cook
was through but J. Campbell
robbed his colleague by taking
the ball to shoot wide. After
some fast end to end play Dal”’
went further ahead when Cousins followed up an attack on the

Aces’’ goal to brush the ball
into the net.

Aces Gonfident.

The second half opened briskly
when the Dal boys forced a corner right from the kick-off.
Whiting clearning from Gladwin.
The ‘‘Acés”’ were playing with
more confidence now and kept
the Dal’’ defenders busy. After 5 minutes Cook opened the
scoring fos the “‘Acés’’, Squires
having little chance to save.
From the kick-off Woods made
a neat run down the right but
delayed in getting over hiscentre.
Cousins missed a splendid chance
by finishing weak, Levy clearing.
After some loose play in mid
field, J. Campbell accepted a
pass from the right to tie the
score with a fast shot.

Immediately from the kick-off
this player gave his side the lead,
the ball going into the “Dal’’
net off a defender, this unexpected turn of events caused great
rejoicing amongst the ‘“‘Aces’’
supporters. The Dal boy
were apparently tiring after their
strenuous efforts of the first half,
but. stuck to their task nobly.
Just on time Gladwin came near
equalizing when he tested Levy
with a great shot, the goalkeeper conceding a corner, the
referee immediately blowing for
the end.

Dalhousie: Squire, Howell,
Howse, Cooke, House, Malone,
Wood, Johnson, Gladwin, Hicks,
Petrie.

  

Fletcher Smith who with his
brother, has faithfully coached
the Dal Tigers all season. A
large amount of credit is owing
to these loyal Dal Alumni who
give unstintingly of their time
and energies.

+e —--
The Dalhousie Boxing Club
held a meeting in the Gym,
Oct. 21, at 7 p.m. There were
about ten present. Doug Murray spoke to the boys and outlined the plans for the coming
season. He requested that the
experienced boxers teach the
younger inexperienced men.

An attempt will be made to
get Nedder Healy to coacl the
boxing team. Among those
present were Gordon Archibald,
Hymie Magonet, Big Jim McLeod and others.

 

 

   

ones, and receiving with them

Halifax City League

 

A. S. PATTILLO,

Manager of the Daihousie Tigers

 

U. K. C. Ruggers
Off to Good Start

The Kings rugby team, in the
past two years, has distinguished
itself remarkably, considering
the small number of men from
which the team can be chosen.
In the fall of 1930 the Kingsmen
ripped through all opposition in
the city intermediate league, and
won that championship. During that season, their line was
crossed only three times, and
they won five games, tied two,
and lost one on a penalty kick.
The season was extremely successful, right firom the start.

In the season of 1931, they
again captured the championship of the city intermediate
league, and followed up this
success by winning the Halifax
City Intercollegiate League. “In
the final game for the Nova
Scotia title, the Kingsmen lost
to Acadia, and but for this setback, the season would have
been completely successful.

This year the King’s team is
working hard to get into its
championship stride. Many of
the old stalwarts are again stren
gthening the line, and there is

plenty of good new material.
The team is certainly going to

battle strenuously to retain its

and
result

championships
ones. The

gain
far

new
SO

exhibition matches. After a
long tiresome trip to Antigonish,
and playing on a very heavy
field the Kingsmeén couldn’t get
into their usual form, and lost
to St. F. X. However, this defeat has only increased the determination of the men to overcome the opposition in the various leagues.

 

tain Class “36” at
Annual Dance

Tuesday night the new Gym
was thronged with students attending the first formal dance
of the college year. Unqualified
credit is owing to Jack Slayter,
as president of the Sophomore
Class, for the splendid way in
which all arrangements were
carried out.

Joe Mills, with six excellent
musicians aiding him, provided
music, which was music. During the evening Jack Slayter
welcomed the Fresh nan Class
to which Don Saunderson very
aptly replied. Art Patillo, Manager of the Football Team,
Fletcher Smith, coach, and Fred
Wigmore addressed the students
briefly in regard to the football
game which was to take place
tomorrow.

Mr. and Mrs. Murray MacNeil were very happy chaper
were Beth Atherton and Jean
Begg. Now, ‘after the ball,
we look back on the FreshieSoph Dance as a real success.

  
   
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
     
 
  
  
   
  

has
been two victories out of three

Sophomores Enter
Lone Score by Thompson
Gives Victory to Dal

Dalhousie University Tigers
displaying a fighting spirit that
the Wanderers could not resist
defeated their old rivals by 4
score of 3-0 on Saturday last.
Dal had the edge of the play
throughout the game, but many
anxious Moments were given to
Dalhousie supporters when Wanderers were awarded penalty
kicks in scoring positions, ‘

Wanderers kicked off in the
first period and for the first few
minutes play was in Dal territory. Wonderful kicking on the
part ol the backfield relieved the
tension. The Dal scrum was
heeling well and the ball was
going out cleanly to the backheld. About 15 minutes after
the opening whistle, Ca'rl. Stoddard, picking-quarter. for. the
Tigers received an injury which
forced him to retire from the
game, Greatly weakened by
this loss the fighting spirit of the
ligers held the Wanderers at
bay. Deadly marking of McNeil and Findlay on the part of
the Dal forwards prevented the
Reds’ backfield from getting
away. Phil Magonet who was
holding two positions, blocking
quarter and pick, was playing a
wonderful game, and succeeded
in breaking up thle attempts of
the Wanderers to get their threequarters in action. Play was
in Dal territory when the whistle
blew to signal the end of the
first half. ;

In the second period Dal
began to rush matters and were
putting forth every effort to
make a score. Following a
scrum on their forty yard line,
Magonet made an end run ito
Wanderer’s territory, kicking into touch for a thirty-five yard
gain. The Tigers then made

‘eine scoring play Magonet re
ceiving the ball from the scrum
passed to the backfield. From
Connors the ball went down the
line to Drover, to Thompson
then to Gore, Thompson weavying around the end of the line
received a pass fitom Gore and
carried the ball over the line.
he University supporters went
wild with delight and the Varsity team went back into play

alter failing to convert, with
all the fight of tigers: From

then on Varsity teams controlled
play. A nice run by Gore with
a pass to Don McRae on the
five yard line failed to score a
try because of a knock-on.

In the last five minutes
play Wanderers began jo put all
efiorts jnto their final drive to
equalize the Score. Kenzie MacNeil for the Wanderers carried
the ball right up to the Da] one
yard line. The tension was relieved by Davidson who brought
him down almost on the line.
A penalty kitk was awarded to
the Wanderers and Stan Young
attempted a drop kick from ten
yards out but the ball went wide
of the posts and the Dal supporters were able breathe
normally once more.
_ The final score
tavour of Dalhousie. It was an
inspired Varsity team which
fought the Wanderers last Saturday and it would be difficult to
pick out any stars, for the whole
team worked like a machine.
The showing of the team so far
pomts to a successful season for
the Tigers.

Wanderers: McDonald, fullback; Finlay, Young, Oxley,
Rainnie, three-quarters; Scott,
Hunter, McNeil, halves; Fry,
Duffus, Grant, Oxner, Johnson,
Worsley, Boyd.

Dalhousie: Davidson, fullback; Gore, Thompson, Drover,
Oyler, three-quarters; Connor,
Stoddard, Magonet, halves; Bent
R. Baird, A. Baird, Stewart,
Tanton, Sheppard, McRae, forwards.

LO

was 3-0 in

 
 
   
       

   

Pa

The

azette assume no responsibility
nions exp by contri
e]
ft

ors to the column.

 

     
  
  
   
   
  
    
  
  
  
   
   
  
  
   
   
   
    
   
   
  
   
  
   
    
  
    
   
   
     
 
  
    
  
  
  
    
   
    
  
   

The Editor,
: a he Dalhousie Gazette.

ee
A
e

ea
Ps Dear Sir,—
The Student’s Council, urged
on by Lou Christie, has banned
all down-town dances. Good;
that is the second sensible thing
____ that the Council has done in the
last three years. You, sir, seem
to think that the students ought
to be allowed at least three hotel
dances, and in support of your
thesis that tuxedos are out of
_ place in the gym, you write, or
cause to be written, a very
critical, to say the least, report
of the Student’s Council dance.
This dance, as everyone knows,
was the first held after the pass- ing of the new edict and was,
i ~ according to almost all the par
‘ticipants, a most successful one
Yet you, from your editorial
_--_-—s throne, tell us that the floor was
uneven, that there were not
~~ enough refreshments, and that
_ there were too many stags.
-_ All these things, my dear
Addison, can be remedied, very
easily. Besides, they are comparatively trivial. You have as
Po vet failed to show cause why all
- the dances should not be held
right out at Studley.

— And may I remind you that
although you purport to speak
for the whole student body, you
— inreality do not. Furthermore
i taking the stand that you
_ have made, you are running
4 directly contrary to the wishes
of the Student's Council, who
a represent the students. It is
your job to support these people,
EY not to criticise them.

ae. ce.

Yours very truly,
a Not At The
1 ana Da a8

ae

es

#

hae
oe.

. ¥
_—e
=

H
iy
. of

i“

= ‘7

hor aer't y

if J 7
a

La ,

   
   
  
   
   
 
 
  
     
   
  
   
 
  

One
the writer for the
the stand they haye

lso admire his powers of insight.
2 mere fact that he was not present

at the dance does not seem to hinder
his powers of verbosity or vituperation.
| We are strongly tempted to wonder if
_ the writer has ever been to a dance.
_——- Such consistency!!!

 

      
          

|. A McDonald

Tobacconist

   

  

    
 

a Complete Range of Pipes

| 25c. to $7.00
P21 Spring Garden Road

        
   
 

  

       
 
 
 
    
        
     

BUCKLEY’S
FIVE

     
 
  
  
       
 
  
   
    
 
   
  
   

 

 

The Seal of Quality

 

Editors of the Dalhousie

  
    
  
  
    
    
 
   
  
 
    
 

H

half of the student body.|

dents’ Forum.

Halifax N. S.,
October 23rd 1932

The Editor
Dalhousie Gazette.

Dear Sir:
The recent edict of the council

jagainst downtown dances cer
tainly does not meet with the
favor of the female element.
As far as we can see the disadvantages of the gym dances
are too many to allow them to
be successful. Take the floor;
(we don't want it) the sore
feet which were an outcome of
the Student’s Council dance
must have been good for the
business of the various corn
plaster companies at any rate.
Of course boracic had been used,
but it didnt help us any, we
‘were only surprised that the badminton players did not break
their necks the next day. The
seating accomodations were inadequate, and the few chairs there
were were too uncomfortable
for use. Imagine trying to relax
in one of those things. The
music might be alright if it
could he Heard, but the acoustics
in aforesaid building are impossible. The girls like good
wholesome food served on other
than paper plates, which always
remind us of our days of Sunday
School picnics. Half the fun of
going to a dance is getting dressed in our smartest clothes but
we hate to wreck our best frocks
at a gym dance. As for eliminating taxis they are necessary
anyway, because none can or
will plow to the gym in a trailing
‘dress and dainty footwear. One
of the arguments advanced in
favor of the new ruling is that
boys who do not own dinner
jackets will be more apt to
attend, but you can’t tell us that

|jthey will go in business suits,

knowing that most of the boys
and all the girls will be dressed
formally. We have heard many

|boys complain of having to go
down to the locker rooms and|

outside to smoke in between
dances. A great deal of empha‘sis has been laid on the fact that
as these dances are cheaper, a
greater percentage will attend.
The money goes out of the university anyway, and we would
be willing to pay the difference
in price ourselves for the pleasure
of enjoying a function at the
Nova Scotian once more. The
gym dances are only tweniy-five
cenls cheaper but what a whale
of a difference a few cents make!

Girls.

The girls have spoken—nor can man
say nay! We feel that this ts truly representative of the feeling of all Dalhousie
girls. But let's hear more. Perhaps
the Cotncil might even give ear to the
expressed wishes of the co-eds—if not
to the males.

Dalhousies’ Dream

 

Phi Kappa Pi.

On Thursday, Oct. 6th. Phi
Kappa Pi fraternity held their
first meeting at the Chapter
House on Coburg Road. Election of officers was as follows:
President—-Potter Oyler.

Vice President-—-Lea Allnach.
Secretary——Harold Connor.
Historian—Jack Oldfield.
Treasurer—Arthur Patillo.

Get Your
Moneys Worth!

The very latest in cooking
devices are used here, giving you
higher food values in every dish.

THE
Green Lantern

409 Barrington St.

 

  

MacLeod, Balcom,

Limited

DRUGGIST

 
 

    
 

 

+

 

HALIFAX and BEDFORD

day Oct. 21st.

ment to study.’

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

U.K. C.’ Notes

On Oct. 20th. the King’s College rugby team took a trip to
Windsor and decisively defeated
the team from that town by a
score. of 11-0. It poured rain
during the entire game, so the
playing was very uncertain and
few spectacular plays were made
The scrums were fairly well balanced but the King’s line proved
superior to that of the Windsor
men. Bill Hart scored two trys
early in the first period, and
Glen Smith plunged over the
line at the beginning of the
second half. Harvey Cole converted one making the score
11-0. The game was merely

Fraternities

Phi Delta Theta.

 

 

elevated to office:
President—R. D. C. Stewart.
Warden—A. S. Geddes.
Reporter—A. C. Bagg.
Secretary—D. E. McKenzie.
Treasurer—J. A. F. Miller.
Historian—W. 'R. Inman.

Tau Epsilon Phi.
Members of Tau Epsilon Phi
and their initiates were guests
of Mr. and Mrs. J. Glube one
evening last week at an enjoy
an exhibition. and it served|~, :
oe able dance and bridge. About
ee bar ae confidence into the forty Weis! BleteLE S. Wis.
pap Rs Bee 3s i golian is Chancellor of Tau
Epsilon.

The King’s Company of the
re TC. aren “ae=" BY
Company of the Dalhousie Corps
made a very creditable showing
at the camp on McNab’s Island
on Saturday, Oct. 15th.

—_—_—_—

Phi Rho Sigma.

Last Thursday evening members of Phi Rho Sigma and their
friends staged a successful house
party when about thirty-five
couples danced to the tuneful
music of Don Murray and his
Orchestra.

 

The King’s College Athletic
Association has not fully decided
whether or not the College shall
enter a hockey team in the
league this year. Due to very
inconvenient practice and game
hours last year, the students of
Kings had little opportunity to
support their team. A committee has been appointed to
discover if more su'table hours
could not be arranged. and thus
make hockey a sport of interest
to the entire College instead of
to just the few players.

Phi Delta Phi.

Tnitiation of new members of
Phi Delta Phi, law fraternity at
Dalhousie, took place last Saturday evening at Weldon Inn,
Carleton Street, when seven new
law students were admitted.
The initiation was followed by
a banquet. The neophytes were
C. R. McDonald, Frank Creighton, Leonard Hawco, W. A.
Kelley, Dave Holland Roy Lawrence, Horace Hanson.

ts

Delta Sigma Pi.

Delta Sigma Pi Commerce
fraternity held their monthly
meeting at their chapter house
on Edward Street Thursday.
evening. Routine business was
discussed and plans were made
to stage a banquet early in Noyember on the twenty-fifth anniversary of the founding of the
international fraternity of Delta
Sigma Pi.

The Haliburton Club met for
their first regular meeting on
Saturday October 15th. The
evening programme for this literary club was very fine and
was enjoyed by a record attendance of approximately forty
members. Readings and talks
were given by J. Andrew F.
Godfrey H. Dysart and the
president Professor Bennett.
Refreshments were served and
the usual toasts were offered,

 

An informal debate -was held
in the Haliburton Room on FriThe subject was
“Resolved that Radios are an
incentive rather than a detriThe debate
was open to the students and
the main speakers for the negative Messrs. Crowe and Dysart,
put forth sufficient argument
to win the discussion.

_Phi Delta Epsilon.

Phi Delta Epsilon entertained
at a smoker for the first year
Medical students at their chapter house on Spring Garden Road
last Tuesday evening. Consul
A. Gaum welcomed the new
students. Talks on psychiatry
and heart failure were given
by the older members. All in
all a good time was had by those
present.

The Co-eds of Kings following
their annual custom for becoming acquainted with some of the
freshmen are giving them a
reception in Alexandria Hall
on Monday October 24th.

The Student’s

 

Phi Kappa Pi.
Activities at Phi Kappa Pi
for the past week included enentertainment for the Alumni
members at a bridge last Thursday evening when about twenty
 

five of the older members were
Forum guests of the active chapter.
(Continued). At their regular meeting last

week routine business was discussed and plans were made
for the staging of a Hallowe’en
party on Monday evening, October 81.

Rucad Table.

My Dear Mr. Editor :—

I earnestly wish to call to the
attention of the Gazette Readers
the shabby manner in which the
Business Managers were treated
by the manager of one of Halifax’s foremost theatres. When
solicited for advertising, he re-! ab?
fused point-blank to cooperate Dr. Patterson who has recentwith the student paper and!ly returned from esi nao
therefore the students i any} work in Japan, was the special
way whatsoever, even going out|speaker last Thursday evening.
of his way to be nasty to OUR |at the first meeting of the Round
representatives. When it was|Table Club held at he heme
pointed out to*him that other|of Dr. and Mrs. R. A. McKa
branches of the same theaire| Dr, Paterson spoke on the "tig.
ran advertising in college parers| pute jn the Far East, stressing

 

 

elsewhere in Canada, he Prac-! particularly the Japanese backithe ordered them out of the ground in the situation. T. D.
office. McDonald President of the

Please bear in mind, students, | Round Table Cluty was chair.
that that same theatre empties| man for the evening
the student pocketbook to the ;

 

tune of at least $500.00 per
month, whereas, the advertising
asked would only cost him $1.80
per week, which sum I think
would indeed be of considerable 5
assistance to the Gazeite finan-| The Opera Club of the Concially. servatory of Music is producing
I would also like to mention|the Mikado. There are still
that the Casino, the Garrick |some vacancies in teat daiveed
and the Orpheus Theatres all|chorus. Mrs. Cruickshanks jis
show a line of “Al” first class directing the production in her
pictures, which theatres, I, as a| usual capable manner. All inDalhousian, shall certainly pat-|terested are cordially invited
ronize in preference in the future. | to go to the Conservatory. The
Thanking you for space in|rehearsals are held every Thursyour paper, I remain day evening at 7.45 P. M. in
ours sincerely, the Conservatory Hall, BarringINDIGNANT ST. JDENT. | ton’Street.

acancies In

Chorus.

. "
aj") he oe
a ‘ Fog i
a le
cued Ya ee Ss »
ve a a” eal mae

itary a

 

 

Installation of officers of Phi
Deita Theta took place at a
regular meeting last week, when
the following slate was duly

Jas they did last year. The

 

  
   

October 27th, 1982

 
  

 

   
   
   
  
   
    
  
  
  
 

Hall Notes.

Shirreff Hall is certainly getting back to the old routine.
Shades of French Club were
reviewed on Thursday night.
Now all we need is Choral Club.

Boys! _Forewarned is forearmed, The Shirreff Hall dance
is slated for November 4th
Now don’t say we didn’t tell
you. Get busy!

A band of gypsies causes
much excitement at the hall
the other night. Loaded down
with “joolry’’ and multicoloured
scarves, they certainly looked
convincing enough for anyone
to cross their palms with silver.

 

  

Some of the girls are just
getting their voices back after
the Dal-Mt. A. game. College
spir’t such as has not been shown
for many a year suddenly came
to the fore but the casualties
were numerous. .

Kay Densmore the house
president has been in bed for
the past few days due to an
ugly gash received when after
a prolonged Student Counc’l
meet'ng she fainted and fell
down the steps of the Forrest
Building.

—_——- —4-o.@— --..

Delta Gamma

Holds Formal

Initiation.

Winchester
CIGARETTES

Blended Right!

Delta Gamma held its seconc
meeting of the year at Shirreff
Hall on Tuesday, October 18th,
with an unusually large crowd
in attendance. During the business meeting Elizabeth Hood
was elected to the executive as
King’s representative. The
president then read a_ letter
from W. A. Black, the Society ake

to help the Community Chest


Imperial Tobacco Company .
of Canada, Limited

executive are to discuss ways
and means, and the suggestions
will be considered at the next
meeting.

The formal initiation of the
largest number of freshettes for
some years then took place,
after which Miss McKeen welcomed the newcomers to Delta
Gamma. She then introduced
Prof. C. L. Bennett, who -had
entered during the initiation,
and who, amazed at the primitive rites, had taken refuge in
the reception room,

Prof. Bennet then gave a talk
on “‘Amateur Dramatics.’ He
declared that anyone was capable of acting, Nature having
provided all the necessary equipment. Too much attention
given by amateurs to the technical side of the job, and too
little to the acting. No amateur
can expect to be as good as a
professional, for he is .merely
enjoying himself. Everyone
should dosomeacting. He concluded by relating several incidents which had occurred during and after the staging of plays
with which he was concerned.

A one act play entitled ‘Don’t
Be Serious’”’ was then presented
and was received with loud
applause. The characters were
portrayed by Margaret Montgomery, Mary Duggan, Jean
Church, Gladys Jost and Beth
Manuel. The meeting broke up
after the usual refreshments and
dancing

     

Our High Quality Standard
makes our Low Prices
Doubly Attractive

SUITS, OVERCOATS
FULL DRESS and
TUXEDO at one

price

$22.”

MADE TO MEASURE

Tip Top Tailors
THE STUDENT’S TAILORS
TRAMWAY BUILDING

Barrington and Sackville Sts.

      
       
     
    

1S

      
  

GAUVIN

AND

GENTZEL

Photographers to

 

 

BIRKS—

Fraternity Pins and Class
Jewellery depend largely on the
skill and experience of the
maker for that smartness so
desired.

 

Dalhousie University

 

Special Rates to

STUDENTS

Birks have specialized for
years and now supply practically all the schools and colleges in the Province.

Sketches and quotations
gladly submitted without
charge.

Henry Birks & Sons

Limited
DIAMOND MERCHANTS
Halifax, N. S.

18 Spring Garden Rd.
Phone B.6992.

 
  
   

  
   

were, 8
Nusie
ova we

re ah

 
      
   

ira

the world

al

  
 
 
 
 
  
  
   
   
  
    
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
  
  
   
 
 
   
   

     

oe Te ; of success of all
cok oe “previous © efforts _to approach

any such Utopian state as
-. ° advocated by the Affirmative

-_ protectionist ideas of the Do
=" x nal 7

* task to reconcile the agreements
ee i

worse
ee ee 5 5
i * + pd

the ideal of Imperial economic

Pans

| Mr. Richard Squires was the
second speaker for the Affirmoe “mative. He supported the
_ philosophical interpretation of
the subject introduced by his
leader Mr. Ivor B. Jones, and
in a very convincing manner
showed how uneconomic in-_ dustries would be eliminated,
» dual and over-lapping production, prevented by a scheme of

ee 4 .

eee ea hs
es

 

     
   
 
  
     
  
     
       
 

Mes

—*

Empire unity. He pointed out
ans that the fiscal freedom enjoyed

by the Dominions has done
ee untold damage to the Domin~~ ions, to the Empire and to the

- outside world.

ae a te
{Natty Beauty Parlor
| MISS I. KENTFIELD
| _ Permanent Waving >
_ | — Shampooing, Marcelling
| Finger Waving,
| ments Facials and Manicuring
_- 326 MORRIS STREET —

ae Ji '
te

 

  
  

 

_ FROM THE

  
       
       
        
      
     
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
     

 
  
 

 
   

eae ies a ae oe Fam
Hardware and Sporting Goods
HALIFAX, N. S.

 

| JOHN TOBIN & Co.
LIMITED

| Wholesale Grocers

Tea Merchants

<

f

Most ir
3 zi

ea

S i t D

 (Continued.) _ | |

op- Mr. Hector McNeil of GlasNega-| gow University was the second
presen-|speaker for the Negative.

 
 
   
  
  
 

was due to the deep-rooted |
minions and it was a hopeless

of the Ottawa Conference with

  
       
     

Treat~ |

START
CH Trade |}

— : ia ‘,
: uy ir i ~

   

dollars
EATON’S of fine quality worsted materials in blue and grey shades, plain and......
with stripe patterns.,,..Smart single and
double breasted models for men and young

  

portant |

al Gym

d the!the Empire such as was ex-|home of Laura Marshall, 295

ral partsof|hibited at the Ottawa Con-|Tower Road. Plans had beea
pomted out|ference, would produce a rent) made for a scavenger party for
in the Imperial structure. |
pointed out that the British) the bad weather, that had to be
Empire was not really a Commonwealth, not a Federation,

e

but was composed of a group of

free nations and colonies. The mian attire, spent the evening

ties of Empire were other than
economic and it was these
ties that made Britain a power

for world peace.

Mr. Hawco in ‘his rebuttal
emphasized the fact that the
Ottawa agreements were a
contradiction to the idealism
advanced by the Affirmative.
It is apparent by the bickering
and arguing that took place at
Ottawa that even the various
parts of the Empire cannot
agree on many points of economic and commercial interests.
How then can the world agree
on similar points.

Mr. Ivor B. Jones in a very
humorous rebuttal took both
of his opponents to. task for
expostulating platitudes rather
than sound arguments in their

 

Private Tutoring

in

FRENCH and LATIN
PHONE B-5757

 
   
     

 
 
     
   
   
      
   
 

Special
| STUDENT SERVICE

DRY CLEANING |
I for and deliver —

Li

507-11 RobieSt. 381 Barrington St
P Telephone Lorne 2323

mm i

  

    
  

    

ited

CASINO

Thursday to Saturday
October 27-28-29

“MADISON
SQUARE GARDEN”’

JACK OAKIE MARION NIXON
TOM MEIGHAN ZASU PITTS

Entire Week Oct. 31st.

“SMILIN THRU’

NORMA SHEARER
FREDERICK MARCH
LESLIE HOWARD

 

Priced at

$25,

Stylish suits for the man who usually pays

more! Tailored exclusively fot

Sizes 34 to 44.

EATON'’S Men’s Wear Department

_ Main Floor

_."

i

i ”

Alpha Canmnin

| =f K He] ber 20th, witnessed the beginns in which heljattacked Mr. Jones’ arguments|ing of the rushing’’ parties
tal ~ attempt to|most vigorously. He pointed | among the girls, on the campus.

fish Empire an|out that there was great danger) The Alpha Gamma Delta Fraendanger | that the bartering and haggling! ternity started the round by
orld, the|between the different parts of|holding a gypsy party at the

|choose between the two teams.

Jers of such calibre would be
theard at Dalhousie in the very

= . wg | Wished the Cercle Francais every
“Glendale” Sui
Glendale” Suits
| oe For Men and
Young Men

tara z mi
pet ad re, = \ et
¥ ~

re ade ge Fe ap Pe tm
ar a @ r 3 Gert

 

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Dr. Stewart

 

  
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

Delta Holds
Gypsy Party

(Continued from page 1),

one, as anyone can see from the
author’s vigorous refutation of
Morley s view of the ‘low minded
geniality and trivial complaisance in the priestly profession.

What is Modernism? It is
‘on effort to construe the Christian faith in conformity with
scientific and histor’cal knowledge while retaining its essential character.’’ This definition
has been the object of adverse
criticism by some as being too
wide and indefinite, but if it be
once granted that the author
is right in saying that the essentail character of Christianity is
known by practically all, although not in a precise formula
and there seems to be good
ground for so saying—this criticism falls to the ground. In the
light of this definition, and with
singular historical and psychological acumen, Dr. Stewart traces the workings of the Modernist
spirit from the time of the
Greeks to the present day. It
is proof of the author’s skill as
a writer that in dealing with
such a difficult and serious
subject, he nowhere becomes
dull: in fact it is next to impossible to prevent oneself reading it at a single sitting, although
it is perhaps not advisable to do
so. It is a book to be “chewed
and digested,’ weighed and considered.

‘Who will ever be found
guilty” exclaimed the vehement
Delphidius, “if it be enough to
deny?” ‘And who,” replied Julian, ‘“‘will ever be innocent, if
it is sufficient to affirm?’’ Modernism demands both denial and
affirmation. It» demands a
denial of that which our reason
and new knowledge show to be
erroneous and unnecessary, it
demands an affirmation of that
which is essential to the Christian religion. For example one
can deny that the Nicene Creed
is infallible. but one must also be
an uncompromising theist. But
the spirit of modernism is by no
means a revolutionary one. It
improves rather than rejects,
it does not hurt when an evil
is merely seen. Theodor Mommsen pointed out long ago that
“the belief that it is useless to
employ partial and palliative
remedies against radical evils,
because they only remed * them
in part, is an article of faith,
never preached unsuccessfully
by baseness to simplicity, but it
it none the less absurd.’ and
by none is this dictum recognized more clearly than by a

The night of Thursday, Octo
the gypsies, but on account of

put off.
The guests and the members
of the fraternity, all in Bohe
at various games and dancing.
Prizes were won by Hoyre MacKie and Martha Keniston. An
additional attraction was a gypsy fortune-teller. About eleven
o'clock a delightful supper was
served, and shortly afterwards
the party broke up.

attempted refutation of his own
and his colleagues idealism.
He showed that re-organization
of the present economic system
was necessary and far fetched
as the ideas expounded by
the Affirmative may seem,
nevertheless when the condition
of the world is considered such
idealism has a practical worth
and should receive fullest cooperation of all serious-minded
thinkers. He pointed out that
the Ottawa agreements in themselves were perhaps regrettable
but this should only stimulate
those who had the interest of
the Empire and the world at
heart to make greater efforts
to dispel the could of economic
nationalism.

A ballot of the audience
showed a victory for the negative, but the concensus of opinion was that there was little to

The forensic agility of the British debaters was commented on
| by everybody present and many
jexpressed the hope that speak
| near future.

 

French Circle Has
Opening Meeting

The first meeting of the Cercle
Francais was held. last Thursday

ig aed : Modernist in the true _ sense.
at r é :
Shirreff Hall. Despite the For this reason Erasmos rather
Ee weather a large assembly than Luther, is the _ typical
of as : :
piring young French stu ether tsk.

dents were present to open the
“soiree.’’ The President, Mr.
Burns Adams, was in the chair
and welcomed the new members.
He outlined the activities of the
“Cercle’’ which he hoped would
be as well supported as last
year. Professor Gautheron, the
Honorary President, briefly sketched the history of the club and

The book throughout is written in a fine and generous spirit
and contains many fine things
which can be garnered only
froma perusalofit. Evenif one
is not in complete agreement
with all of the author’s opinions,
one is compelled to recognize
the extraordinary insight, the
wealth of knowledge which the
author shows. Accomplishments of one whom the little
college by the sea may well be
proud to have and one whom
it would not willingly lose.

success in the future. He emphasized the intellectual and
social advantages derived from
the participation in and the
attending of French plays and
the other activities which the
“Cercle’’ offers.

The aim of the Cercle Francais
is to familiarize the students of
the university with the French
language and with French ideas
and manners. It hopes to break |.
the barriers of shyness and unconscious distrust which invariably arise at the introduction
of anything “‘foreign.’’

The evening was closed with
a dance and _ refreshments
through the courtesy of Miss
Mackeen. The music was provided by Mr. Thurlow and Miss
Marsh.

The officers of the Cercle
Francais for the year 1932-33

 

Class ’33 Meets.

The First Meeting of Class
83 was held on Tuesday, Oct
18th with the President, George
Thompson in the Chair. The
main business was the election
of two members to take the
place of officers who have not
returned to College. Mary
Duggan was elected Vice-President and Don Mahon, Treasurer.

Plans for a class party were
left in the hands of the Social

are :—President. Burns Adams;|Committee. Laura Marshall,
Vice-President Dorothy Vernon;|Evatt Bishop and Turner
Secretary-Treasurer Jacques | O’Brien.

Berenger. The election of the
various committees will take
place on November 3rd.

All students in the University
are cordially invited to attend
the next meeting of the Cercle
Francais on November 8rd. An
elaborate program consisting of

theatricals, dialogues, recitations
and songs is being prepared
which will even surpass the
productions of last year. Please
watch for further announcements
in the Gazette.

Sf. ry dt aw

ee
Sencha abate

 

“Smilin? Thru” at
Writes New Book} Casino Monday

diy
ro i. y'. . io
~ i 7 . e t
rt, ma sa “ aA, ne, a te a a "
Sher . a ee Le J =a es plas , aa ee . ian, <<
ile ies Pe 2 tee YS Se a aie be AS fey of
a i Sed a ¢ aoa a ee

October 27th, 1932

Prize Offered To UnderGrads by Dr. W. I. Morse
Dr. W. Inglis

Cambridge,

and

Moree,
MassaNova

of

“Smilin’ Thru,’’ probably the
chusetts,

greatest love story the screen
has ever known, will be at the
Casino Theatre in talkie form
for a full week beginning Monday, October 31st. With charm
as its keynote and offering something different from run of mill
movie fare, ‘Smilin’ Thru”’ has
a grand cast headed by Norma
Shearer, Frederick March and
Leslie Howard. Keep a date
open some day next week to
see this picture. It promises to
be one of the screen treats of
the year.

Scotia, has offered a prize
of $100.00 to Dalhousie
undergraduates fer the
best essay on the subject:

‘‘Dead vs Living Bocks.’’
The conditions on which
the prize is offered are
being published to the
students. Dr. Morse is a
well-known author on
the subject of Nova
Scotia antiquities, and is
deeply interested in university libraries.

 

 

Sorority Notes

Phi Chi Fraternity

Sigma Theta Pi Sorority held
its first party for the year on
Friday, Oct. 21st. at which a
number of Sophmores were their
guests.

This party took the form of a
|camping trip out to Margaret
‘ Montgomerie’s summer cottage,
situated about 15 miles out the
St. Margaret’s Bay Road.

After much excitement on
land and water the girls arrived
safely where a- much enjoyed
bean supper was served.

The Phi Chi Medical Frater
nity, held an informal dance at
the home of George Covert,
Government House. Seldon
Crimp and his boys rendered a
variety of dance hits unsurpassed
in rythm and melody.

Assisting Mrs. Covert at the
table were Mrs. Harrington, wife
of Premier Harrington and Mrs.
(Dr.) Sieniewicz.

Friends of Charles Stuart will
be glad to hear that he is back
at the old grind again.

 

 

NICKERSON & CREASE

Limited
Wholesale Fruit and Produce
574-578 Barrington St.
HALIFAX, N. S.

Don Murray and his
Orchestra

 

Open for Engagements

 

Private Tutoring PHONE B-1944

in
bia aS een Latin, or
Philosophy DON O’HE :
First and Second Year Law O ARN at B-3359
Subjects

 

PHONE B-3134

 

|HALIFAX TAXECO.

      
  

At your
Service

The Bodimaa's
Library

    

  

THE LATEST IN
Fiction and Non-Fiction
Used Books for Sale
Blower St., HALIFAX, N. S.

GARRICK

Friday and Saturday

‘GUILTY as CHARGED’

with
VICTOR McLAGEN

EDMUND LOWE

  
   
   
   
 

The Winter Dances

Every Saturday Evening commencing Oct.
22nd 1932.

Featuring

Al Sloane and his Dal
housians verses Sunny
side Dance Band.
at

Masonic Garden

Dancing 9-12 o’clock
Novelties and Special Dances

 

 

Admission

Gents 50 Cts. Ladies 25 Cts.
Students Cordially Invited

Monday and Tuesday
IRENE DUNNE
JOHN BOLES

BACK STREET

20 & 30
Children 10

 

Evening Clothes

Evenings
Matinee

25

They “Belong”’
WHATEVER THE PRICE
Stanford

evening clothes are only
in one class—immaculate

-with the easy grace that
hand tailoring alone can
give and absolute perfection in Detail.

WALLAGE BROS.

FALL
FOOTWEAR

You can get comfort
as well as style in your
Footwear in our selection at popular prices.
Every color leather and
style included for.’.*.

Men and Women

This standard of excellence at the best selling
prices postively makes
Stanford evening clothes
comparatively outstanding in value.

ROBT, STANFORD

LIMITED
158 Hollis St. Halifax, N.S.

at Popular Prices

$4.00 to $8.00

WALLACE

Bros. SHOES

GREEN LANTERN BLDG.
409 Barrington St.

 

 

 
