 

ini rb

ye
4

ee es

7 (mt

i

re
i =

He *

 

| Haligonians

a

«this,

a, Te! : >
—' PY Tle

Vs.

Wed. Jan. 12

eS eT er

o ‘

' *

WHAT'S HERE?

 

REUNION YEAR

 

'

 

 

Boilermaker’s

Ball
Wed. Jan. 12

Nova Scotian

9 P. M.

 

 

 

 

VOL. LXVIII.

 

HALIFAX, N. S., JANUARY, 7th, 19388

 

 

No. ll

 

 

NATIONAL CONFERENCE ACCOMPLISHES PURPOSE

 

Dalhousie Club Organized By| Concert Series
Alumni In Maritime Centres

During the summer and fall just
past representatives of the Dalhousie
Centennial have been busy arranging
groups of Alumni in different Maritime
centres in an endeavour to arouse
enthusiasm in the coming reunion.
It is in these groups of former students
that the record of Dalhousie in the past
is mirrored and in their activities and
energies that the hopes of the Univer
sity for the future will be realized.

To this end Pres. Stanley and Major
J. S. Roper have worked tirelessly
to make a success of the coming convention.

The largest gathering was held at
Green Hill in Pictou Co. on August
21st, the place chosen for the outing
being within sight of the spot where
the roots of Dalhousie first broke soil.

_ The Hon. Angus. L. Macdonald, Premier

was the principal
previous to

of Nova Scotia,
speaker. Eleven days

é re this a highly successful banquet was
_.. .. held in Yarmouth at which Dr, H. L.
- Stewart made an address.

Meetings were also held in other
Maritime points outside this province.
In New Brunswick, on September
18th, a Dalhousie Club was founded
in the town of Moncton. On that
date a banquet attended by over
sixty guests was held and the Hon.
A. A. Dysart, K. C., premier of that
province was elected Honorary President and a slate of officers was drawn
up.

In St. John’s, Newfoundland, the
presence of Drs. Grant and Gosse of
the Medical Faculty provided the
occasion for a meeting at which definite
plans were formulated for the building
of an organization to arouse enthusiasm
inthereunion of next year. Asimilar
meeting, with like aim, was held in
Charlottetown, P. E. [.,0n October
29th. Many men, prominent in Island
affairs, were present and great things
are expected from this branch.

Back in New Brunswick, the Saint
John Dalhousie-Kings Club, an estabIished organization, held a_ social
gathering addressed by Dr. Stanley
and others. These speakers then proceeded to Fredericton in order to
organize a group in this capital for
the purpose of promoting the interests
of the University and arousing enthusiasm in things Dalhousie.

Meetings were also held by Truro
and Middleton Alumni for the purpose
of organization and there was a great
amount of interest shown.

One of the most important gatherings
was held in Sidney where one hundred
and fifty-three guests turned out
en masse to hear speeches by Dr.
Stanley and other well known Dal
housians. A large and capable slate
of officers was drawn up and. promise
of an extremely vigorous organization
was shown.

The organization of the alumni has
been a powerful movement and one
that is far reaching. The work of those
connected has been very eflective and

_ the ideals and standards of the Univer
sity have been spread far and wide.
Dr. Stanley's journey to New York
in order to speak at a Dalhousie Club
meeting in that city is illustrative of
All graduates and present students should support this movement
to the utmost of their ability for it

is one of the most important events

in the history of Dalhousie.

Radio Broadcast

About the middle of this college term
Canadians will have the opportunity
of hearing the talents that mav lie
hidden in their college students. The
occasion will be a broadcast over the
network of the Canadian Broadcasting
Corporation in which the leading Universities of the Dominion will participate.

Dalhousie has received one of these
invitations chiefly due to the able
work of Dr. Stewart, on his Current
Affairs program. It is an opportunity
not to be overlooked, for it will enable
Dalhousians to show their wares to
the rest of the country.

A committee has been selected for
the occasion to supervise and direct
Dalhousie’s contribution, As far as
can be learned it will be in the nature
of a skit. For this purpose various
students, representative of their stock,
will be chosen to act.

The committee has asked the Gazette to send out a call for these people.
Required will be the following persons,
if possible with their characteristic
accents:

1 Newfoundlander.

1 Cape Breton Scotchman.

1 Lunenburger.

1 Pictonian.

1 New Brunswicker.

1 French Canadian.

1 Ontario person.

1 British Columbian and

1 Representative from the Middle

West.

These people, it is understood, must
be men. The tryout will be held on
the Gymnasium stage on Monday night
at 7.30. The Committee deems it advisable that all people who may be representative of the above will turn out
in order that the best may be choesn,
Do not let your University down.
All out!

ee

Engineer’s Ball

The engineers are planning and
preparing for the major social event
of the 1938 season—the ‘‘Boilermakers
Ball.” An experienced committee has
been selected and indications point to
a well arranged and smartly conducted
affair.

With a reputation for presenting
to Dalhousie the gayest social event
of the year, no effort or cost is being
spared to see that that reputation
is not sustained and even surpassed.

The Engineering Society this year
is a wealthy organization, hence no
penny pinching. A gala floor show,
the best obtainable, is to be presented
along with sensationally new novelties
and programmes.

Last year the engineers introduced
an innovation to Dalhousie dances
by arranging the floor in a cabaret
set-up. This plan having proved so
popular and having been subject to
such favorable comment and so many
requests for a repetition that it has
been decided to present the same
arrangement once again.

A moderate price on an appropriate
date, January 12th, and the eatremely
pleasant atmosphere of the Nova
Scotian Hotel all go toward making
it an affair worth attending.

The second concert of the Master
Series is to be presented January
18th at the Dal Gymnasium. Mr
Grainger’s fame both as a composer
and as a Pianist is wellestablished and
thus his coming is arousing a great
deal of interest in musical circles.

This series of concerts is sponsored
by the Halifax Conservatory Alumni
Association and Dalhousie University
in order to provide the cultural advantages in things musical for the
students at very reasonable rate.
Other universities levy a $10.00 fee

a

for concerts such as these and for
many years Dalhousie has _ lacked
them. Now that they have been

revived by means of a great deal of
trouble we feel that students should
enthusiastically support them. This
is an excellent move on Dal’s part,
for a college, after all, is a place where
the development of one’s aesthetic
senses should commence, and _ the
student who spends his entire time
at games or shows is bound to be the
loser thereby. For this reason, this
series deserves “ihe wholehearted ‘cooperation of the student body. 
Another artist to be brought here
is Marguerita Matzenauer whose concert will be given on February 9th.
Mme. Matzenauer was for many years
a leading contralto at the Metropolitan
Opera House in New York City and
as well, an outstanding figure in the
concert field.

The fourth concert to be heard at
Dalhousie will be given during the
first week of March by the Faculty
and Orchestra of the Halifax Conservatory of Music. The high stan
dard of performance at former Faculty
Concerts is well known and this final
number should prove to be a brilliant
ending to a most notable series.

Plan Operetta

We want to present H. M. S., Pinafore on Munro Day. We need a
chorus of twenty men and twenty women to make a decent appearance on
the stage and enough music to fill the
Gym. We want you to come to a
meeting on Wednesday evening at 7.30
at Shirreff Hall so that we can decide
whether or not there are the numbers
and the enthusiasm to attempt it.

Everyone enjoys Gilbert and Sullivan operettas. This will be the most
ambitious show that has been produced
at Dal in years. You will have more
fun in_ practices performances
than the audience will have in hearing
you. You will love the music and the
dialogue is exceptionally clever.

It is high time that Dalhousie put on
a really good musical show. and this,
the year of the Dal Reunion, is the
opportune moment. We have the
support of the Alumni and Alumnae

and

Players Guild

There is much to be got in the way
of emotional satisfaction and sheer
pleasure from a good play. And if
the play be really good, then the pleasure in it is increased as it is approached
from many diflerent sides, from the
side of the spectator, of the actor, or
of the lighting expert, or of any other
of the technicians who form an essential part of a stage production.

We can all of us read plays, and
many of us do. We can act in the
productions of the Glee Club (if we're
good enough) and some of us have.
We can help with the back-stage work
in any of the current productions, and a
hardy few of us have done that, too.
In short, there are facilities, elready
present on the campus, for almost any
phase of stage work.

However, the different departments

of any production are co-ordinated
by the Glee Club Executive, with the
result that, as far as the workers in
each department are concerned, there
Fes to be no correlation at allH—
until suddenly, say at about a week
before the scheduled presentation; all
the loose ends tie up in a really remarkable way, just as the executive
knew it would all along. Very likely,
that is the best way to produce a play.
And that’s the function of the Glee
Club—to produce plays or operettas
or minstrel shows in the quickest and
most efficient way it knows how. And
it isn’t the function of the Glee Club
to run a school of drama.

Therefore, some ten or fifteen of us,
after many months of fruitful talking,
have decided to form a society, with
the definite purpose of studying plays
from as many difterent angles as possible. We called that society the
‘Players’ Guild,”’ mainly, I suppose,
because it was the only name we could
think of. We felt that there must be
other students on the campus interested
in such a club, and, so, a meeting will be
held for everybody who is interested

(Continued on Page 4)

Renee ee ae: Over

For the edification of our readers
we wish to announce that the famous
Millionaires Ball, Mardi Gras or what

|have you has been postponed. Origjinally scheduled for January 7th the
absence of Roly Hurst's energetic
leadership forced the Commerce So| ciety to calla halt to their plans for the
: time being.

| The powers that be in the Millionaire organization refused to issue any
statement when questioned and would
only confirm the rumour concerning
the postponement. They hinted, how}ever, at the fact that the dance scheme
had not been definitely thrown overboard and that very probably it would
be held in the near future. Memories

 

in finances and in the casting of the|°f last year’s gala affair lead us to

leads if necessary. All we need now
is the energy of fifty of the students to
make Munro Day, 1938, the precedent
for all Munro Days to come.

Mr. Harry Dean of the Maritime
Academy of Music has offered us one
night a week for directing the musical
rehearsals, and Mr. Joseph P. Connolly, who has produced so many good
shows for Dalhousie, will direct the
staging.

Remember: Shirreff Hall, Wednesday next, 7.80 p.m. This is addressed
especially to the men.

hope fervently in the truth of their
suggestion.

The position of proof editor
and two readers on the Gazette
staff are open. Applicants will

please communicate with the

Editors on or before Wednesday
Jan. 12th. One of these must
be free to read proof Friday
mornings.

 

 

ithey will

 

 

 

N.C.C.U.S. Coordinates Youth
Viewpoint In World Affairs

Open Programme

Sodales resumes its program tonight.
The vacation being at an end, and examinations being forgotten, the thought
uppermost in the minds of Dalhousie’s
orators is that of victorvy—and with
that idea ever before them Doug MacKean and Stu Lane will invade Wolfville today to carry the fight to the
enemy and to convice the Acadians
that ‘““‘A Japanese Conquest of China
Would Be in the Interests of World
Peace.”’ Their task is a difficult one,
but success in any endeavour is achieved only by overcoming obstacles no
less severe then those which will doubtless be presented by the learned Acadia
speakers whose formidable arguments
soon be forced to counter.
It is hoped that Dal’s team will bring
home the bacon and keep unbroken
the string of wins which Sodales has
obtained this year.

Plans for more debates have gone
steadily forward. The CBC elimination series will begin soon. There
will be a radio debate with the U. N. B.
Law School the last of January. The
intercollegiate debates this term will
see St. F. X., Acadia, Mount A., and
U. N. B., on the Dal campus; and Sodales will send several teams to other
colleges. In March it is expected that
a team from the University of West
Virginia, which isto tour Canada, will
stop off in Halifax to wind up Sodales’
activities for the year.

The Model Assembly of the League
of Nations will be held in Fredericton
this year, and to this gathering Dal,
as usual, will send a strong delegation.
Sodales executive will welcome suggestions from any student concerning
the stand the Dalhousie delegates
will take at the assembly. In a short
time applications will be solicited, but
in the meantime, let us have your suggestions.

Class Continued
Dalhousie’s Chair of Commerce,

left vacant late last summer by the
resignation of Professor ‘Big Jim”
MacDonald, is definitely to be filled.
This information, contrary to a rumour
that the entire department had been
abolished, has been corroborated by
the President’s Ofiice and university
authorities are endeavouring to secure
the services of a man suitable to fill
the position.

Ofticials told the Gazette yesterday
that the vacancy would be filled as
soon as possible and that the Com
merce, department would have a new
head’ at the beginning of the 1938
Autumn term.

Other arrangements have been made
to accommodate Commerce students
during the current year and the
department was never in danger of
being abolished, President Stanley said
yesterday. Rather than appoint an
unworthy successor to Professor MacDonald the university has been marking
time in its selection.

Where or. why the rumour started
concerning the~abolishment of the
Chair is not definitely known, but
Dalhousie had and will continue to
havea Department of Commerce.
This is assured by President Stanley—
so student minds may be set at ease.

 


*

by Roland Hurst
(Gazette Staff Writer)

Winnipeg, Dec. 81—U. B. C. and
U. N. B., Varsity and Dalhousie,
McGill, Queen’s, Manitoba and Alberta, Brandon, McMaster, Victoria and
Acadia.

That's just part of the assemblage
of University representatives one sees
at this conference of Canadian University Students. There are 325 students, representing 27 colleges throughout the Dominion, here thrashing
and probing into the problems which
face the Canadian nation today—
problems which they, ‘the citizens of
tomorrow’ will go out to meet after
Graduation Day.

The National Conference of Canadian University Students is a dynamic
force—it picks you up and carries
you with it—you feel yourself being
swept along by the relentless flow of
student good will and student endeavor.

Perhaps the outstanding feature
of the conference has been the successful attempt to co-ordinate the opinion
of the French Canadian students of
the University of Montreal into the
general picture of Canadian University

life. These French Canadian students
are mighty fine and mighty able
fellows. As one of the French Cana
dian delegation, Pierre Ranger, puts
it—

“All during the congress, an unsuspecting University of Montreal
man was always apt to be pounced
upon by a group of delegates armed
to the teeth with arguments, and put
through the process of third degree
on any number of subjects.”

The cool and understanding attitude
taken by the French Canadian students
is clearly shown by Monsieur Ranger’s
next remark—

‘All this was done in such a good
natured and fair-minded fashion that
we submitted quite agreeably to this
kind of torture, even though many
have lost a lot of sleep.”

Did the Conference accomplish anything? The answer to that question
is definitely in the affirmative.

It gave the student representatives
an opportunity to see the problems
faced by one another. It gave the
Maritimer an opportunity to see the
position of the student in the general
picture of political and economic life
in the province of Alberta where as
one delegate said the students “are
weary of their role as human guinea

pigs.”

The conference probed into the
important problems facing Canada
today. The question of a _ boycott

on Japanese goods came in for heated
discussion and finally ended a
“no score debate” because of the
widely diversified opinion of the student
delegates on the subject. (Although
this is in no way official, the majority
of the students were in favor of the
Japanese boycott, the chairman, however, because of the wide diversity
of opinion was unable to call a vote).

Then too there arose the question
of sex education and the problems of
marriage. The answer to the discussion on those subjects resulted in
the resolution, ‘‘Resolved
that this conference recommend

(Continued on Page 4)

in

following

to

 
  
 
 

a oe a , ref

GAZETTE STAFF.
Editors-in-Chief.
| E. F. MERCHANT.
B-0254.
" _ Associates. ‘

Roland Hurst.
Peggy Merkel.
Barbara Murray

Walter Murphy.
John F. Finlay, B. A.
Lloyd Dalton

-‘T, Babbitt Parlee, B. A.
he .0) ~~) Leesard Kitz, ~~
Marjorie McLean

Bec

cee as News Editor. , ; Sports Editor.
RICHARD MURPHY. JOHN DICKEY, B. A.
| Rr ee B-5545,

B-2427,

: Business Manager.

R. L. ARMSTRONG, B. A.
B-5700.

 

 

GIFTS RECEIVED

ee. Even after death one of Dalhousie’s oldest friends lends his
-—s- name to a gift that will raise this University to a higher plane
and give it added educational value. The undying devotion and
ceaseless interest of Mr. Hector McInnes during his lifetime
has prompted an anonymous donor to give the sum of $50,000
to be used in a manner which will enable certain students, who
~~ _-—s would otherwise be unable to obtain a college education, to attend
an institution of higher learning and better themselves in their
‘future life. This generous sum will be capitalized and the interest
used for scholarships under the name of the Hector McInnes
‘Memorial fund. - f
va ae ’ i ;
ot Another gift of $3,000 has been received from Dr. William
Inglis Morse, who has often generously aided Dalhousie in the
past. +Of this, $2,000 will go towards the upkeep of the wellknown Morse Collection which is housed in the MacDonald
__ Library, and the remainder will be devoted towards additions
met and improvements to the University Library.
Lave Vv Beach ls okey
eae bese

Bt Both these gifts are thankfully received and greatly appreciat
____ ed by the students of Dalhousie. They will be of inestimable
value in keeping our already excellent facilities up to date, and
__ should go a long way towards swelling our enrolment. It is on

i toes lo :

me AQ

“
4,
: -m

nation of such gifts that a modern university chiefly depends
s effectiveness. Foundations which will ensure scholarships
ture. ‘generations are always gratefully received and the
nunificent benefactors will live forever in the minds
C | icularly those men and women

BSE YS <r | : F — a a ( a

   
  
  
  
  
  
  

  

: a fe sf
ankful to both Dr.
_ to our other donor who wishes to remain
e would wish to know his identity so that he
ly thanked, but since this is impossible we hope

  
   
  
    
 
  
  
 
 
 
   
 
 
  
   
  
    
  
   
   
    
   
   
  
  
  
   
  
   
  
  
  
   
   
  
   
   
  

ae

might be fitting

- that he may be somewhat rewarded by the knowledge that all
_ Dalhousians are extremely grateful to him for his kindness and
for the fitting manner in which he presented his gift. In the
words of our President, “Friends of Dalhousie will be pleased
: eth BY the establishment of a scholarship fund in memory of Mr.
Bie Mean” |

FAR ails
a

AGAIN—FULL-TIME COACHES

At any time during the college year the question might well
be raised at Daihousie—Are we fair to our athletes? Do we do
all we can in order that they may hold high the sparkling athletic
record set for them by Black and Gold teams in the past? We
-—s expect our rugby, hockey, basketball teams, to mention only a
few, to go forth year after year and return to the campus, champions in their particular field, We expect our men of “steel and
steam’’ to fight, fight, fight for Old Dalhousie—and if they do
not, they receive hard and bitter knocks from the students. Perhaps we expect too much? NO. But we do expect too much
_ for the circumstances under which our athletes play.

pei:

. s
eae ray 2%

a ae
a
ee

At Dalhousie there are no full-time coaches—there are no
training rules, or if there are they are notenforced. In rugby and
basketball members of the teams are fed at a so-called training
‘table at noon on practice days, The “training’’ table, it seems,
only exists because practices end so late in the afternoon that

it is almost impossible for the majority of the players to have
lunch served at their various boarding houses. Under conditions
such as these our athletes are trained. “Trained’’ so that they
may play against teams where they have full-time coaches, training
rules and all that goes with them.

And the remedy lies in that elusive personage—a permanent,
paid coach. One whose sole duty is to produce squads worthy of
the largest University in the Maritimes. An associate physical
director if you wish, call him what you will—but someone, at
least, who is well-acquainted with our major and minor sports
- and who can act as Head Coach in all branches of athletics, even
if the actual work is done by assistants. We are not asking for
the impossible. We realize that our facilities, both financial and
otherwise would not permit a paid coach in every major sport,

but we are asking, and backed by the student body we demand,
| ~~‘ that Dalhousie have a physical director (“What's in a name?’’)
capable of handling all sports played on this campus.

at!

ria
re

ae

_ Great benefit has been received from our present physical
_ director and the University is to be congratulated upon securing
his services. For the first time in years we have had and still
have bona fide compulsory physical training of one sort or another
eu, for our freshmen, and this, we believe, and all other innovations
pai which Mr. Sven Korning has introduced, should continue, and continue under his direction. But why not an Se ee ctor
__who is fitted to handle our specialized sports? Surely Dalhousie
___ is large enough and prominent enough to have two members in
the physical education department? At that it would be the
i ~~ smallest. though one of the most necessary departments in the
ae University oS oA

es
Nese,

ntl
m4 4 ae

ny
P ra :

  
    

SSR
we = =c ifr; oe is 24
ee ns Bde =

 

 

"De Morse, wiiose’ gifts

   
   
    
   
  
  
 
 
  
   
 
 
  
  
    
   
   
 
   
  
   
 
    
   
   
   
  
 
  

When we,as a Freshman, entered
this University, we were told by the
authorities, with a somewhat smug
intonation, that it was “founded in
imitation of the University of EdinBurgh”. Although not taken with

the idea, typical of Haligonian deifica
tion of the old world, and particularly British, custom, we had no real
reason for complaint.

That knowledge suggested various
things to us. Chief of all we thought
the University would be conducted
as a Seat of Learning in which the
learning could be absorbed, not exactly
at leisure, for that would suggest
indolence, but at least with a certain
amount of thoughtfulness which of
course requires time.

We also thought, following the
above principle that exam ination
would be a test of ability under reasonably favourable conditions. Hustle,
bustle and cramming would be things
vaguely familiar to all but hardly
reconcilable to a University based on
the Old World idea.

Unfertunately our visionary attitude
was quickly shattered by those harsh

iconoclasts — the professors. Knowledge was shovelled at us, which we
sure was passing through neither

heads—the lecturers nor our own.
Valiantly we attempted to do the
necessary treading. The examination
lists were posted, Still no appearance
of reprieve. Knowledge was still being
“dished out’. To cap it all we were
told on the last lecture day that we
would be ‘responsible’ for so many
chapters of new work.
Lectures ended and

within three

sé + ‘ } i
days we were writing examinations {of ™'nd.

at the rate of three a day. Is it too
much to say that there is something
wrong with a system which compels
us to write three examinations a day
with noisy ventilators, albeit poor
ventilation, shakv tables, and conversational scrutineers.

Honour students oftentimes have
three examinations a day. Naturally
after four years of hard work on one
or two subjects it is to be expected
that they know it thoroughly. But
when an ordinary “pass’’ student is
confronted with the problem, and
when the subjects may vary, the
difficulty is greater.

It is easy to understand the difficult
position of those who formulate the
examination schedule. They are in
the same position as we. They do
as they are asked. When all the
examinations must be written a
week “‘bunching”, of necessity, occurs,

As far as can be seen there is no
remedy for the ‘‘shovelling’’ of knowledge. It is part and parcel of a
system whose roots are too deep to
be dug up, Of the other, there is
no doubt thet a remedy may be offered.

Would it not be possible to extend |
the period of examinations, over possibly a week and a half o1 two weeks,
and have at the most two examinations
a day? It is easily understandable
why the students should want it, and
in a University whose authorities are
gladdened by the fact that it is ‘in
imitation” of an Old World University,
shouldn't they also want more of the
casual atmosphere to separate it from
the American idea of mass education,
by learning one day and imparting
all your knowledge on the next.

in

bone

GUESS WHOZIT

Our congratulations to Jean Giovann
 

‘etti for her cleverness in Ect

the fact that the swingster in last week's
contest was that well-known play-boy
Don MacGregor. Many happy licks
on your lolly-pop, Jean.

BULLETIN

We draw Bulletin Editor Len Kitz’s
attention to the rhyme ‘Thirty days
hath September.” Incase you didn’t
know’ Len, there is no 3lst of November.

TAXI SERVICE

Business conducted by Don MacGregor and Charley Roberts at any
time, night or day. Fleet of one and a
half cars. Low rates—one feminine
smile.

 

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Book Review

“The Arts’’—Hendrik Willem van
Loon,

Mr. Van Loon’s book on the arts isa
trifle dull,

For many reasons, it should be anything, but dull. Van Loon does not

face you with a heavy tome, replete
with all the names and dates and facts

that most of the books on this subject
feel it their bounden duty to contain,
He does not confuse you with technical
terms or concepts too vague to be
realized.
ideas are simple, straightforward and
interesting. He indicates quite clearly that an art becomes great in any
age when it fulfills the need of that
age and if, when it fulfills, it interprets.
He would say that Rococo art was great
because it is simple, natural and charming, just as its age was simple, natural
and charming, following a century of
artificial stateliness. And he is right.
He would say that Rococo art, if
practised to-day would not be great,
because to-day is not at all like that
other age a century and a half ago.
And he is right again. But, having
said it once, Mr. Van Loon goes on to
say it over and over again throughout
his book, long after his weary reader
has acknowledged the truth of his
statements from sheer inability to
resist any longer.

“The Arts’’ resembles a magazine
rather than a book, That is, it is interesting from the point of view of
timeliness, It is full of references to
the Spanish Civil War, to Hitler and to
Babe Ruth, in the manner of the topical
articles of most magazines, Its style
is essentially journalistic, roughly on a
par with the average article of ‘‘The
Atlantic Monthly’, which means that
it is very good journalese. The unfortunate part of the matter is that
while you condone the language of an
article which you read primarily for
information, and which you expect to
‘finish in half an hour, you don’t condone it in a book, Because you approach a book with a different attitude
Unless the book is a text,
you expect more from it than mere information, or even ideas. “At the very
léast, you expect not to be bored.
But what one might read without definite reluctance for thirty minutes
begins to pall at the end of forty-five—
and wili give you a complex if you stop
to figure out how long it will take to
finish the damned thing.

Van Loon's book does have some
merits, however. Although he attempted the seemingly impossible survey of all the arts (with the exception of
literature) of all ages, yet he succeeded
very well in giving a glimpse of all sorts
of fascinating bits of life—the inexplicability of the sudden rise in excellence of craftsmanship in the making of
violins and its equally sudden decline;
accidents and quirks of fate, that made
some men great and ruined others;
how orchestras started. Indeed, it is
to van Loon’s everlasting credit that
he discussed how and not why. It is
in that way that he accomplishes his
self-admitted intention of showing ‘‘the
universality that underlies all the arts,
as it underlies all the manifestations
of our average, everyday human existence,”’

There is yet another quality of Van
Loon’s book that saves its readers from
utter boredom. That is his gift for
drawing. What van Loon cannot say
with his pen he can say most eloquently with his brush. For example,
when van Loon makes the statement
that “the Taj Mahal is undoubtedly
one of the most beautiful building
ever devised by the genius of man, but
when you approach Brooklyn Bridge
without any prejudice it is quite as
beautiful and even more imposing,”
the natural reaction is to claim your
birthplace to be Missouri, the fault being that most of us do not approach
Brooklyn Bridge without prejudice,
Whereupon, proceeds
show us what he means by drawing

van Loon to

| for us the Taj Mahal and the Brooklyn

Bridge as he sees them,—and the argu-,
ment is clinched in van Loon’s favour
The book contains literally hundreds of
similar illustrations in colour and .wash

Van Loon’s book, then, has many
potentialities, and if you don't come
to it with too much hope in your heart,
you will probably get through the six

hundred and some odd pages, very
little the worse for wear.
—_————\!"!0 —-“Russia not counted, there are

4,000,000 men under arms in Europe
today, about twice as many as there
were before the world war,.'’—Frank
B. Kellogg.

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   

On the contrary, most of his

January, 7th, 1938

“Imagine breakfast without coffee!”
“Imagine coffee without Sweet Caps!”

SWEET CAPORAL CIGARETTES

“The purest form in which tobacco can be smoked.”

 

Ever Think of This? |

DRUGS

QUALITY counts for

more than QUANTITY in the foods we

CHOCOLATES

FOUNTAIN

eat.

 

MacLeod, Balcom

Limited

The Green Lantern
407-409 BARRINGTON ST.

 

 

 

 

 

 

B-7555 B-9727

Che Wade Bros. Taxi

5 and 7 Passenger Cars
UNIFORMED CHAUFFEURS

TO AND FROM DANCES TAKE WADE BROS.

 

BEFORE BUYING

LUGGAGE or LEATHER GOODS
OF ANY KIND SEE

KELLY'’S LTD.

118 GRANVILLE ST.

B-6962

 

 

Ask for FARMER’S

ICE CREAM

Made with Pure Fresh Cream

‘*Taste The Difference’’

Farmers’ Limited

HALIFAX, N. S.

 

 

 
  
  
 
  
    
 
   
  
   
 
   
   
   
  
  
   
    
  
   
 
 
   
 
   
   
   
   
  
    
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
   
   
  
  
    
 
    
  
 
  
  
   
 
   
   
    
   
  
  
   
  
    
  
   
  

of Universi ee since two of the players
ha recently arrived home from Queens.
dl irally the Queensmen were bewith. Inaumerable- questions

at a Masone Varsity’ and so we
endeavoured to reproduce the
f the conversation. In the first
¢ Queens is a larger college than
ousie and Kingston a smaller
than Halifax, so the college life
; more unified, There really are no
attractive outside entertainments and
0 the student body has to rely upon
‘tee for providing amusements and
extra curricular interests. One of the
ink striking differences between the
two. colleges is the student governBe a lent which is run on the party politic
ee _ system—Meds and Science constitutce ei one party and Arts, Theology and
_ Levana (Girls’ Society) making the
opposition. Regular campaigns such
as are characteristic of Federal and
.. Provincial Governments are held. The
students vote at the polls upon special
- voting days. The party in power
a ~ forms the Alma Mater Society which
_ issomewhat like our Students’Council in
ee - sofar as it controlsthe actions of the
~*~ students, but by means of a court
system with resulting fines. Classes

ee: run on the same basis as those at
Dalhousie without an Arts and Science
eee: and every second Friday a
Year Dance is held, which is much
me) a class party only more formal.
BS Students are only allowed to take
ye classes per annum, and many of
Me the students enter as Freshie Sophs.
a Tn fact manv of the colleges are nowy
| making senior matric compulsory for

er atrance, Maths and Latin are not
essential for an Arts degree; women
are admitted to the faculties of Arts
Ft Goines only Naturally there
€ more buildings than at Dalhousie,
5 ma _the Campus is more compact

‘e

en EAbes,

re are a gieat oaniber of societies
: ilds. at Queens, Some of the
i rtant baie the Glee Club,

Ss « Clubs, See cial R

besides the SiC. ™
a fairly prominent part
life. The. Se aee towards
Be Sennen: was somebut

es there are no grants See ake
A.M. S., to many of these clubs each
‘member pays a $1.00 and in some cases
“$2 .00 fee in-order to defray expenses.
Panne Dramatic Guild is well organized
iat pret sige are held for those

ae ‘there is ample opportunity to
- become proficient in the art of make. wp scenic painting, play direction
it and other technicalities. Apparently

: the Varsity is bubbling over with
enthusiasm and talent which is perhaps
more than can be said for Dalhousie.
The Glee Club on the other hand is
_. more like our Chora! Society and
a covers organized singing and speaking.
os epee we hear, is rather weak.
The Film Society—another prominent
ae = group is rather unique in that it brings
_ moving pictures both in French and

- besides travel and educational films.
This society is naturally very popular
= Bie and Dal might well follow in Queens
footsteps in this respect. A great
eit of interest is manifest in all
__~ branches of current affairs, but the
clubs concerned with such activities
, are too numberous to mention—
ial _ Sufficient to know that they exist.

om Queens, of course, has no fraternities
: eh ar sororities. This has a tendency to
x throw the students together and coney sequently there are a minimum of
_ cliques in existence. But a general
A mosphere of friendliness and college
rit prevails, There are, however,
cieties for both boys and girls with
cia al leanings, but more on the basis
of our own Delta Gamma. It is
a "interesting to note that these flourish
and the meetings are always fully
ded. Sport is prominent—footbadminton, tennis, etc. are very
while Queens. boasts the
gest swimming pool in Canada.
Arts degree is given unless the

‘.

Petia within reach of the students,

   
   
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
   
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  

Im Society, bees C

®

query, to combine the acting ability

‘my happy lot to bring Romance into
5 ‘housands of sophisticated co-ed hearts,
and at the same time to show McGill
what great acting can be.

DALHOUSIE GAZ ETTE

College Notes
LITTLE MISS MUFFET
As D. H. Lawrence Would Have

Written It.
By Kerith Mill

Little Miss Muffet; not knowing that

what she wanted

Was the vibrant, terrific, yes, worldshaking

Love of a man, sat pitably on a tuflet,

Ganetic Standing

° Thirty en are required for a
|Gazette “D”. One point is awarded

for each column of copy printed in
the Gazette.

Present holders ‘of Gazette ‘‘D’s”
include: S. Edgar Stewart, George
H. Murphy, I, M. MacKeigan and
Roland D. Hurst.

The standing up to and including

Substituting curds and whey for an December, 1987 is as follows: Leonard
Apocalypse. Kitz—25 2/5; Chas. Roberts—21;
But a beautiful male spider, with | Roy Gold—20 1/2; (P. S. Macnutt—

18); John Dickey —9 4/5; Betty

glistening black hair
Pearson—9 2/3; Maurice Lipton 9 1/2;

And inchoate animalic eyes, passeth

her Kaye Sircom—9; Margaret Drummie
On his way towards the centre of the|—9; Dick Murphy 8 1/5; Ronald
earth. ; Hurst—7 1/3; Art Mercer—7; Jim
She left her puritanic curds, her Gali- | Milner—6; ; Tobias Beeber—5 3/4;
lean whey, Ian MacKeigan—5 2/3; Frances Mar
tell—5; Peggy Merkel—5; Chas. W.
Burchell—5; Barbara Murray—4 1/4;
L. Raider—4 1/4; Babbitt Parlee—
5 1/5; Marjorie MacLean—4: Bob
Levin 3 3/4; Marion Geldert 3 1/2:
Joan Blackwood—8; Irvin Rubins—3;
Margaret Hall—3; Walter Murphy—
3 1/4; Gordon Daley—2 5/6; Maureen
Allen—2 1/4; Helen Connor—2 1/2:
Pat MacDonald—2 5/8; Margaret
Schwartz—2; (Ron Wallace —1 1/2);
Graham Murray—l 1/2; S. Fried—
1 3/4; George Piercey—1 1/5; Llovd
Dalton—1 2/5; George Corston—1 1/7
Tom Sheehan—1 1/2; Gordon Lea—
1 1/2; Ed Barnhill—1 1/4; Syd Pauker
—1; Johnny Morrison—1; Joe Likely
—1; (Art Nancekeville—1): Anne
Hirsch—1 1/5;. (Harvey Veniot—1);
Henry Reardon—3/4; Lorna MacKay
—3/4; Ralph Plumer—5/8:. Laurie
O'Brien—4/5; Lola Harris—1/8; Wallace Wright—3/4; Fred Barton—5/6:
Leslie McHattie—3/4: Bernie Graham
—1/2; F. Berkowitz—1/2; (Doug Mah
on—1/8); Nancy Lawson—1/4; Bill
Scott—1/4; Reg Ash—1/2; Lily Hirsch
—1/2; Malcolm MacLeod—1/3; Hazen
Mitchell—3/4; Gordon Thompson—
1/2; Clem Egan—1/4; Edgar Stewart
—1/3; Fred Day—1/2; P. McLeod—
2/8; Ed er Henry Gold—1/2.

Her domestic tuftet, and went away
Into the bright erotic world, dreaming
Of the inchoate eyes of the horrible

splendid Male.
—U. W. O. “Gazette.”

STEVE

Most of us will remember Stephen
Macnutt as the startling successful
lead of so many plays at Dalhousie
last year. For those of you who have
had the rare misfortune to miss him,
the following interview is presented.
[t was taken from a recent issue of the
“McGill Daily:”’

“Stephen Macnutt, as the romantic
hero, David Linden, a part formerly
taken by Raymond Massey in the
original presentation of ‘‘The Shining
Hour,” finds that to interpret his part
correctly he has but to be himself,

“For Stephen Macnutt is the tall,
blond dream-boy of every female
reader of “True Exposures.” He is so
handsome that it is painful to look at
him. Men turn pallid with jealous
rage when they meet him on the street.

“Nevertheless, his welcome of your
humble reporter was most gracious and
betrayed not a hint of the condescension he must have felt as he invited us
to enter his magnificent drawing room,
only one of the palatial chambers to
be found in his luxurious home, ‘“Fallen Arches.” ‘

““*Yes,’’”’ he replied in answer to our

    
   
 
   
  
   
 
 
 
    
   
  

 

Fantasy - - .- Fancy
and Fact
Poems

In the serious mien of the new year
we present the following wistful poetry.

The first is by our William Coleman,
who was a student in a Southern
American college, .

Last night upon the stair
I saw a man who wasn't there,
He wasn’t there again today

' I wish to God, he’d go away.

The next actually was printed in
an American-English Anthology, prefaced by Christopher Morley, hence |
it must be a very fine poem.

of an Irving with the sex appeal of a
ble has been my great achievement.

m ‘proud of the fact that. it has been |

As to my
love life, ’ he concluded with that mag- |
nificant gesture he knows so well how
to make, ‘you may publish, sir, and
be damned.’”’

THE BIG APPLE

At long last comes a really modern
expose of that far-famed dance the one
that has so successfully replaced professional wrestling. The ‘Syracuse
Daily Orange” presents the scoop,
garnered from a fruitful interview with
s | Jeanne Gumaer, featured dancer in the
recent Syracuse student union show.

Here goes, with a little explanation
of the side, in case you’re a newcomer:

“All join hands in a big circle, and
mark time, tapping right foot four
times, then strutting until next step
is called.

‘“Suzie-Q to the right’—Clench hands
in front of you, drag one foot at side,
reversing weight from heel to toe on
other foot and moving to the right;
then reverse the procedure, and move
to the left.

“Sailor's Hornpipe’—Hop twice on
each foot, one hand on abdomen and
one on back, moving in any direction
the caller indicates.

“Peel the Apple’ or ‘Birdie in the
Cage’—Partner places his finger on
girl's head, as she trucks around underneath it, then reverse, with boy truck
ing.

‘“Shag’—Two hops on right foot,
two on left, change right to left, then
repeat.

“Shoo the Chickens’ or ‘Bunny
Hop’—A shuffling jump done to the
centre of the circle, then out agai n
done with the aid of a good firm grip,
on side seams of skirts or trousers.

‘“Shine’—Can be done with or without a partner. The caller points to a
person and cries ‘shine.’ The dancer
designated goes into the ring, and shows
off his or her pet variation of any step
he chooses. Those left in the ring,
clap their hands and stamp their feet
in time to the music. .

‘“Praise Allah’—Dancers go into
centre of circle with heads bowed, then
retreat, raising head and arms, wiggling fingers, and yelling. This step
usually ends the dance.’

I never saw a purple cow
I never hope to see one;
But I can tell you anyhow
I’d rather see than be one

 

Triumphant Engineers

There has always been a debating
practice at McGill. It has been a
practice which ripened almost into
an institution. It was that the interfaculty debates should alwavs be
won by the men of law. It wasthe
accepted thing.

Law met Engineers at that learned
university before Christmas. The debate opened in free fluid style with
the legal luminaries doing their piece
in usual graceful manner. Came the
turn of the transit-men. The place
was thrown into darkness. Lantern
slides with commentaries were given.
Graphs were shown. Statistics were
proved for a preceding decade. Building models were’ presented. By the
end of the contest the law lights, a
noble race of men, had been soundly
scourged. Maybe it’s the beginning
of a new era in debating.

Fishing Strike—Conditions

The fishermen on strike along the
South Shore are bound to get a certain
amount of sympathy. Their lot has
rarely been a prosperous one. Their
per capita wealth is ‘low. Young
men even in the fishing districts often
leave the callimg. A survey in Prof.
Richter’s excellent periodical ‘Public
Affairs” showed the unemployed youth
of Halifax cared little for the calling,
The percerttage which would like to
follow the trade, which unfortunately
I have not before me, was a surprisingly
low one. The type of a livelihood
which can be expected is not appealing.

Solution
The above is a bold héading, perhaps.
None the less, a possible solution is to

Bais hea eee sh Ae i» Be ot het cd Phy
te ie RR nd ge ee yt ! is A cera. hig an
, a ed a a es ici =

   
 
 
 
 
 
   
    
    
  
 
 
   
  
  
  

 

Letter to Editor

To the Editor:

In reply to your request this contribution which might prove of interest
to Dalhousie students is hereby. respectfully submitted. After four years
at Saskatchewan one naturally draws
comparisons upon finding one’s self
in a new environment. All comparisons are necessarily odious. They
must be either false, tactful or true.
If false they are odious ipso facto;
if tactful, they are odious because
they are false; if true, they are odious
because of their very nature.

One is immediately struck by what
Dean MacDonald would call the
venerosity of the institution. ~ Dalhousie is approximately four times
the age of Saskatchewan, and the
benches in the Law School are no
exteption. Whereas the furniture in
the Dal Law Library has been painted
so often that the nature of the wood
is not discernible, the Saskatchewan
Library is furnished in fumed oak.
On the other hand, Dalhousie has
twice as many volumes. (Query, what
constitutes a good library?)

At Studley the buildings are some
what more presentable, though in
one’s personal opinion scarcely up
to the Saskatchewan standard. The
U. of S. campus is recognized as the

finest in the Dominion. Shirreft Hall
is far more luxurious than Saskatchewan
Hall; but one finds the Co-eds pretty
well standard from
Of course one may
submit to Tiger
judgment.

The Dalhousie Gymnasium is_ infinitely superior to the corresponding
building at Saskatchewan, but for
the past three years the students
there have occupied themselves with
the construction of a stadium of
which they are justly proud. The
Dal gym serves a much wider need,
providing as it does, a well equipped
stage for the Glee Club and an excellent floor on which to trip the light
fantastic.

Experience has shown one that the
N. F. C. U. S. Exchange scholarship
is an excellent facility, and should
be more widely used. A contribution
from the Alberta Exchange student,
Miss Helen Wood, should be forthcoming next week, one feels, doesn't
one? Or does one?

Sincerely yours,

coast.
be compelled to
Veniot's

coast to

superior

DON WHITMAN

 

 

work the industry on a co-operative
basis. The success of lobster fishermen on the East Shore, the success of
turkey raising and other ventures
on a co-op scale in Nova Scotia has
been very satisfactory. It would seem
to be worthy of trial.

Trawlers

It is the frequent cry of local fishermen that the trawlers are ruining the
market with their heavy catches.
But the United States places no
restrictions on trawlers, while the
Nova Scotian government limits the
number. The Upper Canadian markets could no be satisfied in steady
manner if these trawlers were abandoned. Further the experience of
removing supply to force up a price
has never been very successful. The
Southern states tried it with cotton,
it failed; Brazil tried it with coffee
and Venezuela reaped the reward.
Let Nova Scotia try the same and
it would be a safe bet that the New
England States would reap the benefit.

Co-op Again

The fishing game takes a lot of
capital to run on a wholesale scale.
That is why the fishermen are so tied
up with the wholesalers. Wednesday’s paper seems to show a rift in
the skies. However, after all the
shouting and tumult dies the idea
of a co-op trawler might very well be
considered. The initial eapenditure
is heavy, but merits attention.

 

Student’s Patronage Appreciated

SHAVES - HAIRCUTS
SHOE SHINES
—Good Service—

LORD NELSON HOTEL
BARBER SHOP

A. PUBLICOVER, Prop.

 

 

Page Three

 

  

DOUBLE
DELIGHT

finest roasted filberts
Jersey Milk Chocolate

A TREAT — ANYTIME

 

The latest Popular Music.

The latest Victor Records.

All Popular Magazines.

All Musical Instruments.

Radios in best makes.

Lending Library of latest
Fiction.

Framed views in Nova Scotia

by McAskill and Graham.

McDonald MusicCo.

40 SPRING GARDEN ROAD.

THOMAS WALLACE

SONS and DAUGHTERS
SIGHT SPECIALISTS

Y. M. C. A. BUILDING
Halifax, N. S.

OAK HALL BUILDING
Sydney, N. S.

“If You Want to See Well See
Wallace”

 

 

When You Need
DRUGS MEDICINES

PRESCRIPTIONS

or any other Drug Store Merchandise

You get better

SERVICE and VALUE

KINLEY’S DRUG STORES

at

 

 

 

MEMORIAL GATES

as UNIVERSITY OF SASKATCHEWAN
: ' ‘ oy

    
  
 
 
  
    

e onstructed of native field stone

 

of a warm grey tone with tints of
pink and yellow—these beautiful gates
were dedicated May 3rd, 1928...
to the memory of students and staff

who fell during the Great War.

a

ghee Consols

'GARETTES
UNIVERSITY

      
 

THE MAN'S FAVOURITE

 

A Message to College Men--
Whether buying a life insurance policy as a
provision for the future, or contemplating
the selling of life insurance as a profession, you
would do well to consider the outstanding
sixty-seven year record of The Mutual Life
of Canada. Communicate with our nearest

Branch Manager or our Home Office.

UA AL

ESTABLISHED 1869.
Owned by the Policyholders

HOME OFFICE—WATERLOO, ONT.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
    
 

- Page Fout DALHOUSIE GAZETTE — January, 7th, 193 7th, 1938

Setar ee een nanlicnas sdbeathenmnnatensataaneeden ahaa akanl

‘TIGERS CLASH WITH CHIY ICE RIVALS WEDNESDAY

SCHEDULE

. Hockey—Dal v. New Glasgow os
e * | eg setae fa y } 7 TURN OUT TO
Beek Basketball Sr,~Dal Grad ; ! GAMES
eee 8 P. M.—Dal. on AND SUPPORT
: pen e 7 P.M. *7) YOUR TEAMS
. Yo, CoA,

BT tee tas as ov yf Hoop Schedules | Cubs First Game

Thurs. Jan. 13, 9 P.M. Dal

 

*,

ie yo een ee PRE-SEASON BASKETBALL On Saturday night the first set- to.

| a a of the current basketball campaign |
7 Beng als Play Away o-nig ht Jan. will take place with Coach Charlie
13, 8 p. m. Dal vs Dal Grads—Thnr.| Steers’ Cub proteges advancing from

| Re i oo Battle For Next Weck Studiey: the Tiger lair to meet a strong Garrison

20,8 p.m. Wand. vs Dal—Thurs.| quintet on the Y. M. C. A. floor.

  

WELCOME
BACK

Your Christmas Cheque

  
 

io
Se

e A Soa ® Studley. The Dalhousie force has been practisR C y poe a < s ( c practis
Ing ctivities ete Ete Dal Grads yD Wand-— ing assiduously since early last term
rhurs.—Studley.

  
 

Money slips through one’s
fingers so easily, may we guggest
investing that money gift in
something tangible.

- Dalhousie Tigers open the hockey
mg season by playing two games as the
a newly formed Nova Scotia Hockey

League swings into its first week. To
and pre-season notices bill them as a
team that can stand with success in

   
   
   
  
 

Haven't you ever dreamed of and

: : hoped for the rugged, he-man_ life? SOE Vial: Seab ae t
night they are in New Glasgow to opposition to a eague opponents. WE HOPE
lay the opening game in the Pictou Haven't you ever yearned for the popu- SENIOR BASKETBALL The team that ended last season's
pay ; : lari the publicity and the s SCHEDULE TO SEE BIRK’‘S have many useful
County town but will open their home | !4™ty, RHEE An Bumerou schedule near the top holds high hopes ‘fs
series when they meet the Haligonian | honors and trophies heaped as others—| _ of bettering their past record. Im- YOU gies.
entry at the Forum next Wednesday because they entered boxing? They | Feb. af ee eaan ea proved coaching, more practise and
night. It should be a big night for} ©" all be yours—if you'll dare fight! 8, 8 p.m. ries vn - on, ‘a! better physical condition have all AT THE
% wai Studley—Thurs.
Dalhousie fans so be on hand to see the} Dont wait any longer. Come out ety eet S _|made their mark and with most of H > &S
fun. for boxing immediately! i you wait 8,9 p. m. ee Wand.—Studley.| the players having long experience in CAPITOL enry Birks ons
The Ferguson coached Tigers look too long, you'll be out In the cold, {0.8 “ eae Dal Grads City League competition, a well round- eA coed
very strong and Wednesday night’s while others are carving their names Te cibeehh and: vs Mat tac’! ed quintet is expected to take the floor. - ;
with leather mittens in the collegiate Studley—Thurs. Diamond Merchants

 
 
   
   

clash should draw a large crowd. speek Work: 15,8 p.m. Acadia vs Dal.—Wolf-| The Garrison should also field a Halifax

 

 

 

  
   

     
 
 

Many stars of former years combine ; trounce: ten Whaat Of lank. “wears
is always at your disposal. ville—Tues. a a BOE EE
‘th new talent to give the Gold and|__ The gym is alway ) ard h
ot kk -ell ae squad with lots| Such expert trainers as Manager Abe| 17, 8 p.m. Dal vs Dal Grads— Pow erful 7 E. squad will appear
ce ‘ey : a lent aa ht Becker, Milt Lipitz and Emanuel Studley—Thurs. in uniform and this nucleus, reinforced
is 4 ay iar. ie oaat Inter Preiss will gladly instruct you. These 24,8 p.m. Wand. vs Acadia—Stud- by stars of other garrison teams will
re - 7 : ge Age te peas
sa y i ‘tl iy he heta coaches will devote extra time to be- ley—Thurs. undoubted!5 ensure a fast breaking ~
Collegiate goalie will again be between 24 9 Dal Grads vs Dal.—| offensive to test the mettle of our own Caen
h toh ded by last vear’s|gimners teaching them how to punch yo Ps, 17a ERR» 5 ‘ ons ;
Boer ee See Toe B Studley—Thurs. Cubs. rea
rear-guard of Don MacGregor and bags, skip ropes and spar. By the } e ;
Johnny Carroll with Doug MacDon- time the Inter-collegiate Boxing Cham-| March ' : -& es we
ald. former St. F. X. star on hand to pionships roll round in March you'll 1,8 p.m. Acadia vs Dal Grads— Players Guild ‘
ive competent relief. The veterans be an old timer with confidence, poise M olfville—T HES .
among the forwards are ‘‘Pooh” De- and all the tricks at your command. 8,8 p.m. W ey vs Dal.—Studley. (Continued from Page 1) Aik >¥, _
Then you can win your self a place on urs. ae
copes ad acinar aa the team and get some real experience 10,8 p.m. Dal Grads vs Wand.—.|or curious—probably on next Tuesday +E Sa ir bz YD) dy
n ? é . . ware . a AS - : ‘ , "<2 - - r} - ns e
Jim Mont, John Mullane,, George in stiff competition. There will be Studley Thurs. noon. At any rate, there will be a is
ic Ii we anccer ftom “Loyola” workouts every Wednesday night at 10,9 p.m. Dal vs Acadia—Studley.|notice in the “Bulletin.” However, SZ,
ollins a new 7. be sf — ats ;
Priests al rounds out the squad 8.00 P. M. and Saturday afternoon at Thurs. te you are interested and have a class
n Mont Sigg ah ; iq| 2:80 P. M. Don’t forget! 15,8 p.m. Acadia vs Wand.—Wolf-| or a broken leg or something and can't Tw ot ‘eT
eee Bein ais If you want to learn the manly act ville—T ues. come to the first meeting, then give

rey produce a bang up game when they

bard eiaee a Oi your name to Mardi Schwartz, Winnie
tangle with the Haligonians and any
of self-defence now is the time to start. oS d
Ist. and 2nd. Teams play off for title:| Flynn, Marjorie MacLean or Walter

If you already box now is the time to

 

e who misses it certainly cant sa Bi e
vie didn’t warn them, It ishoped that|° into training for Inter-collegiate| (Home and Home total points). Murphy, 2nd. all will fs welt. ; : |
Band will bé on baud to’ provide ap-| t®@™- Nova Scotia Technical College
——_o-—__— INTERMEDIATE BASKETBALL

   

OFFERS
ENGINEERING COURSES

CIVIL, ELECTRICAL, MECHANICAL AND MINING.
To Dalhousie Students with Engineering Diplomas.

   

propriate music but in any case a good
time will be had by all.

In Re Queens

\Continued from Page 3).

   

Senior Hockey ae. eo C.C.U.S. Coordinates

8,7 p.m, Garrison vs Dal—Y.— (Continued from Page 1)
Sat.
’ vs. N.S. Tech.—Y.—|the dfferent university delegations
Sat. that study groups on these subjects
13, 7 p. m. Kings vs Garrison.—Dal.| be set up by them on their campuses

    

Jan. 7 Dalat New Glasgow.
“10 Dalat Halifax. 8,8 p.m. ¥
* at Dalat Truro.
“26 Truro at Dal.

 
 

Ee = = = — a ke a — - a : 7 = - . — " — = a es a ee ee a - ae . _—— = —— — —_—— ; = TE ieee aa oem sail : m5 n 7 oa a Ss aL es lel ‘ ei a SEE i ee o 4 se: aa a a Z a Se ee <a ae ei —<— 5
ee i & * . a ae > 7 i ’ oan ? ™ - son = Se = Ps a ra os a ae P . is * = mF a a Seat a =
7 ¢ = we ‘ i ; oh ie! i ee Tim, : ee. staf : i” . eee ag ah oe Lo +}
a —— ; ~ J 4 ® fy — 5
p= ? d a - -— —e - f 4 Oh em ig r ’ f a 7 : m oe > 7
‘ 7 > * e . . — ‘ _
7 = * = i A, « ~ , » :
: ha : ons : ,
“ : ‘ d : 7 : i
\ ; Z .
* _ :
I SR RS oe OF es OS he ee ce ae ee

Modern Equipment, Instructing Staff with Individual
Experience.

   

candidate has completed a specified

 
   
    

number of gym classes while physical} « 98 Dalat New Glasgow. Thurs. 2 and that efforts be made to inaugurate Tuition Pee $75.00 per. year-—Twenty-fve Scholarships
training is compulsory for all new- Feb. 2° Halifax at Dal 13, 9 p.m. Dal vs Y.—Dal.—Thuts. | courses on the subjects in their univer- f $75 00 h
comers. The girls play ice-hockey “  MPalat Truro. 15, 7 p.m. N.S. Tech vs Kings—Y | sities, in so far as it is compatible o “UY eacn.

Write or call for Calendar or Advice. F. H. SEXTON, Pres.

  

Sat. with the teachings of the church.’
15, 8 p.m. Y. vs Garrison—Y.—Sat.| University of British Columbia stu
INTER-FACULTY BASKETBALL| 20,7 p.m. Dal vs N. S. Tech—Dal.| dents gave great stress to the financial

and we were informed that bicycling
is very much a la mode. There is
also a good rink and one may skate

‘9 New Glasgow at Dal.

 

 

 

any night in the week. In fact the Thurs. hazards standing in the path of mar
University seems well supplied with Tues. Jan. 11 20,9 p.m. Kings vs Y.—Dal—Thur | riage, and it was largely due to their

Gaz ihitias tor all wporté: Law v. Med. 22,7 p.m. Garrison vs N. S. Tech—| efforts on the subject that the above SAI E OF OVER OA | S
There is naturally a good deal of meh os S &S. Y.—Sat. resolution was tabled.
ee: 1 ‘ rosh v. Eng. 9 ite aha is . ek

social life and we hear that the ‘Formals’ 8 22,8p.m. Y. vs Dal—Y.—Sat. [The Commission on “the Student

 

are definitely outstanding. Orchestras Thurs. Jan. 13 27,7 p.m. Kings vs N. S. Tech—

 

2 SS weet toy Fisk comes tt . ; ‘
are brought from Toronto or some of Law v. Dent. Dal—Thurs ee ee ae eee the We are clearing the balance of our Winter Coats at
ws Med. v. A. & S. ae aa eit Bee RO er Pie en eee ees reatly reduced prices, in some cases as much as onethe larger Amarican cities, and the Bente 27,8p'm. Dal vs Garrison—Dal.| panded down the following resolution, oe d A th 5 Hi . Paes nt
decorations are superlative. The cost T ; 4 7 ABS Thurs. weet Tt aohlerence ob ati Serord a6 ro Sete Res SEeses Pisce:
; ues. Jan. ho as eel re ZO ¢ :
of tickets are therefore abnormally teat aAL eS 29,7 p.m. Y. =e Kings—Y.—S at in favor that the Federal government Choose di tak d t # the D
high—that is from our standpoint— Need , 2 ‘., 29,8 p.m. N. S. Tech vs Dal—Y. should formulate a definite foreign oo one How an ake advantage o e Viscount.
ed. v. Kros - i ’ :
ior ele ey wee Dent. v. Eng. Feb is policy and present it to the Canadian We still have plenty of styles and patterns to choose
ee. ee er Serene. aM Thurs. Jan. 20 ns * ; people, and that a copy of this resolu- from, includi th I ingle b d
the Big Apple have definitely arrived . . 10, 7 p. m. Kings vs Dal—Dal—tTh. foe he terwarded ta ° the. -Federal ’ CANGING S Very PCPpUrar - single reaste
since a special dance was held to Law v. Frosh. 12,7 p.m. N. S. Tech vs Y.—Y. government.” raglan.
initiate the latter. Are we to consider Med. v. Eng. Sat. |

Dent. v. A. &S. 12,8 p.m

,8p.m. Garrison vs Kings—Y, The Conference in short concerned 9 9
Tues. Jan, 25 ; itself with everything f s Sh M Sh
S. with everything from sex to
Law v. Eng. ah : : ; : ‘ s ane S en S Op

17,7 p.m. Dal vs Kings—Dal—Th. | Sectiong alism—from social legislation

ourselves lucky or not? The only
drawback is, however, that food is
not provided at any of the dances,so

 

 

 

 

 

i perhaps Halifax is better after all. Med. v. Dent. 26,7 p.m. Garrison vs Y.—Y.—Sat, | £° "éligious education and from the .
| There is a very elaborate Freshman A. & S. v. Frosh. March ‘Freedom of the Press"’ to the bilingual 30 Spring Garden Rd.
programme including such things as Thurs. Jan. 27 8, 7 p.m. Garrison vs N.S. Tech—| Problem.
a, pyjama parades at night, marching Law v. Med. Dal—Thurs. fs :
; to football games behind the band, Frosh v. Eng. fee ee gt
thorough initiation, besides a _ big Tues. Feb. 1 ‘ Weta) ie
Fischaien’ Reception. The Freshnien Law v. Dent. One She: ‘‘What’s all the bustle} A SIN O
wear their regalia the whole year, be Nama | ea Se. oe fat ! G 7
while the Freshettes suffer till Xmas— OER v=: Exes Pe i er eee N N
(| Gates te the Dat’ system. - There ‘ate Thurs. Feb. 3 , sonal. 3 Days Starting Saturday A UV. A D GENTZEL
| various fads as well. The girls rejoice Law v. A. &S. ieee ee even meUTeHORGIF. January 8th.

Med. v. Frosh.

in brown and white sports shoes and
Dent. v. Eng.

rolled sleeves, while the boys smoke

“THOROUGHBREDS Photographers to Dalhousie University

cS pipes and carry collegiate dress to Tues. Feb. 8 25 Years a DON’T CRY”’
r perhaps an extreme. But if we report- Law v. Frosh. STUDENTS’ BARBER SPECIAL RATES TO | | SEE OUR PICTORIAL WORK
ed the entire afternoon’s conversation Med. v. Eng. with STUDENTS FOR GIFTS
we should need to run a supplement, Thurs. Feb. 10 Patronized by Doctors and JUDY GARLAND
| so we will conclude with a favourite Dent, v. Frosh Professors MICKEY ROONEY
i" Queens’ farewell “Goodbye now...” A. & S. v Eng. ———_———- SOPHIE TUCKER
Tues. Feb. 15 LADIES HAIR BOBBING C. AUBREY SMITH — 24 Hour Finishing Service —
e Law y. Eng. a
: RAZOR HONIN
Sher “O8 SHeaxy, there's “a. bug Med. v. Dent. ee eT 4 SHORTS
down my back.”’ A. & Se, Frosh JACK MITCHEL PETE SMITH’S
ii L, Prop.
He: “Aw, cut it out, those jokes| Thurs. Feb. 17 ary ‘Romance of Radium” 81 SPRING GARDEN RD. Phone B-6992

were alright before we were married.”

Dent. v. Frosh. 41SPRING GARDEN RD.
—“The Manitoban.” '

A. & 5. v. Eng.

Our Gang’ Travel News

      
