    
   

 
 

ing yestérday noon.

A. A. C.—where were the Glee Club
countries harassed by the evil of war.

. operation « of the 43 students present.

 

 

 

 

De plor able Lack Of Interest Students Express Opinions On War

howe In Small Attendance

“a

What the ‘Gianette thought of the mee

Where was the executive of the D.

 

bers-—Where was the Graduate Society—in short where was everybody
when the Students Council held the
annual student body meeting in the
Gyninasium at noon Thursday.
Exactly 43 students sat in the Gymnasium when Thursday's meeting got
underway. Prof. Fletcher gave a brief
address on the responsibility we more
fortunate student have to students in

On Monday a “‘tag day" is to be held
on the Campus for the benefit of Chin-esé universities and their universities.
“iReefessar Fletcher called for the co
in ee oe hit a

_' sta vous “Francais” was
busy. ‘too—but no one was interested
oe “What's to beconie of Student Life
in this University.

It’s come to the point now where the
students will have to awaken to the
problem of supportig their activities
or they will not have any activities

Since the exit of John Fisher there

has been too Wuch soft peddaling going on. A student arises to make a
complaint over the way some activity
is being managed and he is politely told
not to bring personalities into his argument. Well it’s high time a few personalities were introduced. It’s high
time those student. officials on this
Campus who are holding offices for the
mere glory of holding them and then
letting their duties go by the board’s
were thrown out of office.
Let's go—Let's start a revolution—
start anything or everything but produce some student interest. Next fall
the Dalhousie Retnion is to be held
on the Campus. What will your
father and my father have to say when
he recalls the great old days when he
told somebody off and returns to find
you a mere weakling—a weakling
without backbone and energy—without even the desire to assert your own
rights.

Students’ Union

Plans for a Student's Union building are at a standstill after several
weeks of deliberation. As no definite
arrangements have been arrived at it
was determined by those in charge to

 

let the matter rest until after Christmas. |

In the meantime, to give the students some place of recreation, the
Men’s Common Room in the basement

of the Arts Building has been opened

in the evenings from 7.30 to 10.80.
Unfortunately, the reom is only open
to male students, but perhaps the
checker-boards and chess-men_ that
have been installed will in some small
way make up. ne this maples tke de_ ficiency. ,
z This is only an experiment conducted
_ by the University and if any of these

ie temporary facilities are misused, these

   
 

     
     
         
     
 
  
  
   
   
  
     
   
  
  
  
    
   
    
   
  
   
  
  
   
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
   
   
   
  
  
  
    
  
  
    
  
    
   
  
  
  

—— ——

   

To Conference

  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
   

    
      
 
 
      
     
   
 
 
 
 
     
 
 
  

vy HENRY ROSS»

Satan year medical student. and
Dalhousie representative on the executive council of the National Federation
of Canadian University Students, Mr.
Ross will attend the biennial, meeting
of that body to be held in Winnipeg
from December 28 to December 31,
inclusive,

 

Dal Victorious

Last Thursday evening in the Munro
Room of the Forrest Building the
Law School debaters, John Dickey
and Carleton Smith, accomplished the
double feat of putting Dal in thelead in their series of annual debates
with the University of New Brunswick
Law School and adding to Sodales
Winning streak a third unanimous
judges’ decision in intercollegiate debate, to make Dal’s debaters undefeated this year in competition
with the best opposition in Eastern
Canada.

Upholding the negative of the resolution “That appeals to the Privy
Council should be abolished in Canadian Constitutional cases'’, Messrs.
Dickey and. Smith so clearly and so
forcefully presented their carefully
thought out and powerful verbal
attack upon modern radical constitutional theories that the skilled New
Brunswick team of James R. MacBrien
and D. Lloyd G. Jones were forced
to taxe cover from the incisive and
direct attach of the local lawyers.
In upholding the resolution before the
house, the visitors stressed the fact
that Canada is now a nation, capabl
of dealing with her own problems,
springing from racial and yeographical
diflerences, and demanding that local
courts more directly familiar with
local conditions be given the opportunity to judge what proposed remedies
are just and constitutional in the
peculiar conditions Canada must face.
Their attack on the existing order
was a damaging one, but it was capably met by the able advocates of
the Privy Council, who pointed out
that the Imperial body, with its long
record of judicial excellence and complete impartiality is not to be lightly
discarded. Their appeal that the Privy

(Continued on Page 4)

Anticipating the visit of the Chinese
student and orator, Dr. T. Z. Koo,
which is planned, though not definitely
for the spring, we decided to ascertain
whether Dalhousie students had any
views on the Sino-Japanese situation.
Perhaps because the Orient is so far
away and exams are so near explains
the fact that many to whom we spoke
were extremely vague. The general
opinion is that the Chinese are suffering to a very great degree, while the
mass of the Japanese are being driven
by government militarists into a war
they do not desire. Naturally, students of advanced classes and students
of political science were interested and
here are the views of four:

Zilpha Linkletter, third year Arts
Student: ‘‘Well the situation must be
serious for the whole Canadian navy
has gone to the Pacific coast! The fact
that British and American material
interests are seriously affected means

that we in Canada, through our news
papers, are not getting both sides, of the!
question. Apparently, the “open
door” is only open if one knows the
combination.”

Walter Murphy, Education Student:
“The mass of the people are sorry for
the Chinese. I sympathize as much
with the Japanese. I don’t suppose
that the whole mass of the Japnese have

 

BY THE SEA

HALIFAX, N. S., DECEMBER, 38rd, 1937

SENIOR TIGERS ADMITTED TO HOCKEY CIRCUIT

 

ing destruction in the Orient, If
Canadians do not keep open minds
we will be faced with situations just as
evil.”’

Graham Murray, First Law:
“There is a universal feeling in the
Anglo Saxon world that Japan has resorted to barbarism. this she
following in the footsteps of Italy, and
starting a War over a comparatively
trivial incident. The militarists feel
that the hour has come to strike against
China's expansion. Her present defined attitude towards the intervention
of foreign government is, Japan thinks,
justified by the strained relations of the
European powers. Italy is playing up
to Japan while Great Britain, France
and the United States seem to be the
only powers ready to take the necessary action. But with the balance of
power in such a precarious state Japan
can still bank on non-intervention,
Even the threat of boycott will not deter
her in her great development of po:tentially rich territory.”

Isabel MacKay, Education Student,
“IT think the Japanese are doing blatantly what other nations of the world
are doing secretly. [I do not think
that Great Britain and the United
States will stand for any threatening
of their territory or trade. A recent
commentator has said that Japan's

we

year

In is

any more desire to fight than we have. ‘aim is to reach Singapore, and if such

War time propaganda and all the other
injustices of the present day are wreak
 

a plan is developed, Great Britain will
certainly intervene.”

 

 

Chinese Relief

Chinese universities have
been destroyed already in the undeclared war in the East. Students and
faculties have migrated to the few
universities in the west, safe from the
Japanese invasion, where they are in
the direst straits, in need of both food
and clothing. The universities of the
interior are crowded, literally to the
roofs, but are carrying on to the best
of their ability. Professors have been
working for months without pay; students have had all their resources
wiped out in the war, and have dark
prospects for the future. They have
had to go in many cases more than one
thousand miles to a university.

All this naturally requires money,
and a world-wide effort has been undertaken to assist the students by International Students’ service, an organization which became well known
for its efforts to improve the lot of
German students after the war. Unfortunately there is no branch of the
International Students’ Service in Canada, so the Canadian Students’ Christian Movement has undertaken to
raise money in all Canadian universities.

Next Monday a group of students
will sell tags to obtain money for this
worthy cause. Your support is asked
to aid this worthy cause.
Qe

HELP MAKE
SOMEBODY ELSE’S
CHRISTMAS
HAPPIER BY YOUR
DONATION TO THE
LOCAL CHRISTMAS

FUND. 7

Fifteen

  

Choral Society —

The greatest joy to the hearts of the
Glee Club for many years has been the
startling success of the Choral Society.
More than fifty students have turned
out to sing this year, This is a much
greater number than was ever hoped
for. But when the matter is looked
into the reason is not hard find,
It is something that can be expected
for surely in a campus of some nine
hundred students there should be
enough singers to form such a society,
Considering this there should be even a
larger number. We are continually
hearing of people with good voices
who do not sing with us and as many
of these that we hear of we urge them
join. But still we feel there are
more whom we have not yet contacted.

to

to

If you be one of these please do not
hesitate to come up we
gather and sing. Do not feel because |
you come, not being asked individually,
that you will be thought of as having a
We have a real

to us when

superiority complex.
privilege in being able to sing under
Mr. Harry Dean, and we would like
more to share this with us. Although
we held our last meeting for the year

on Wednesday evening still we would |

like to count on more to come out next
year,

 

An Appeal

An appeal is being made this week
for additional funds to augment the
grant of the Students Council to meet
the expenses of the six students to be
sent to Winnipeg and sundry expenses
of the committee. Any students or
interested alumnus, who wish to assist, may give their contribution to
Walter Murphy.

 

>)

 

 

Contribute To
the
Goodfellow’s

Christmas

Fund

 

 

No. 10

 

‘Nova Scotia Hockey League
Includes Strong College Entry

Sp ech Stresses.

Dal’s Problems

“A student union building is a most
important need in university life, and
deserves every support. By a student
union building I mean a place where
people can not only meet but eat.”’
This was the statement of Professor
B. A. Fletcher, head of the education
department, who addressed Dalhousie
students on Tuesday on ‘‘The need of
the University.’ ‘‘The state of a na
 

PROF. B. A. FLET CHER, B.A.

tion,’ he said, “is determined by the
state of education; I think the University is one of the most important
things on which civilization rests.”
He gave the threefold aim of universities as conservation of knowledge;
teaching and advancement of knowledge. Knowledge was conserved he
pointed out through libraries, laboratories, records, archives, museums,
textbooks and theses.

“These days,” he continued, ‘we
are seeing things more in wholes; not
only the mind but the body, emotions
will are being trained. Games
are tremendously important.” Their
importance is both political and economic. ‘‘Mass production standardizes
so much that people are in danger of
accepting things without putting them
practise. Pleasures tend to be
saving, thought inhibiting.”

and

into
creation
Gaimes, if all students take part,
have a democratic effect, the professor pointed out, which prevents us
from taking our politics ready made.
For this reason he urged the students
to train under a coach, not to have a
coach who will train a team for the
pleasure of students to watch.

In cultivating the mind “There is a
danger that reproduction of lecture
notes will become the chief end of man.
We should therefore ask for benefactions to establish the tutorial system.”’
Emotions, too, he explained, must be
trained in a university and in this respect the need of a student union buildIn conclusion Professor

ing arises.
said: ‘‘What we need in the university is more specialization and more

synthesization. Today we are neither
specialized enough or synthetic enough”’
The world today is composed of a
people who have not made up their
minds whether they want nationalism

BY JOHN DICKEY

President Thompson of the D. A. A.
C, announced this week that the Tigers
will represent Dalhousie Senior
League at present in the process of
formation. With many matters of
details yet to be ironed out no definite
statement has been made but according to present plans it is going to be a
bang-up league.

The league will be made up of two
teams from Halifax-Dalhousie and the
Haligonians—the Truro Bearcats and a
team representing New Glasgow. As
such it would be one of the outstanding Senior Leagues in the Province this
winter and would mean a great deal
to the ice sport at Dalhousie. When
the City Legue folded up and decided not to operate this winter it
looked very much as if the Hockey
Tigers were not going to see much
action this season but these plans
change all that.

Dal will ice a strong team, reports
have it a good deal stronger than last
years Bengals and can be counted on
to match any of the other teams. The
material is there. The boys are well
coached and there is all kinds of the
good old fighting college spirit.

But dont forget the other teams are
going to be strong too. The Haligonians will -have some of the smarter
players from several of last year’s City
League teams along with some new
blood and The Bearcats and New Glasgow will ge worthy representatives of
two fainous hockey towns. All in all,
it’s going to be some league and another
sign that Dal is once again on the way
to the hockey heights. Years ago
Dal ice squads were feared from one
end of the Province to the other and the
names of Dalhousie players names to
to be conjured with—History is about
to repeat itself.

The Law Ball

The old N. S. hotel was hit on Friday night by as riotous a group of
party-goers ever saw. Wine,
music and laughter all combined to
make it the treat of the year, and the
crowd was a merry one that enjoyed
itself all the more as the evening wore
on. Fun there was a-plenty and loud
were the expressions of regret when
J. D. Sadler played the National Anthem.

In between dances were songs which
ranged from carols to Hi-hi-de-hi variety and many and varied were the
steps that were tried out, with different
stages of success. All these goings on
raised the Ball once more to its old
standard after last year’s let-down.

Ably chaperoned by Prof. and Mrs.
Cowan, Prof. and Mrs. Willis and
Mr. and Mrs. J. A. Walker, the party
was a huge success froin beginning to
end. The presence of Premier Angus
L. and Mrs. MacDonald, Hon. J. H.
and Mrs. MacQuarrie and Pres. and
Mrs. Stanley raised the Ball to a high
plane. All the Lawyers wish to thank
them for their attendance.

in a

 

as. it

or internationalism. Until this decision is reached we must see that the
University is kept from both physical
and spiritual destruction.”

:

&

4

A

 

fi

al
|

 

nh eh PEE

1

+
f


 
    

    
 

    
   
    
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
    
    
   
  
   
   
 
   
     
      

—— eee

Fo

~
i

unded 1869. “The Oldest College Paper in America”’.

  

  

GAZETTE STAFF.

Editors-in-Chief.

\

A.B. MACKENZIE. E. F. MERCHANT.
So: / B8824. 7 B-0254.

Associates.

Walter Murphy.
John F. Finlay, B. A.
Lloyd Dalton

Roland Hurst.

Peggy Merkel.
Barbara Murray

: T. Babbitt Parlee, B. A.
\ Leonard Kitz.
= Marjorie McLean

: s News Editor. Sports Editor.
RICHARD MURPHY. JOHN DICKEY, B. A.
a + BRART. B-5545.

Business Manager.

‘ ’ R. L. ARMSTRONG, B. A.
ze B-5700.

ss. Egg THAN TWO WEEKS AWAY !!

That horrible nightmare in every student's life has finally
confronted us. Even the most hardened undergraduate shivers
at the thought, while modest freshmen, who have yet to face the

ordeal, shudder and dig deeper into dog-earred texts, The never
eres, - failing signs are all about us, for already that unhealthy pallor
i eee produced by holding one’s head over a book into the small hours
ae “of the morning, has commenced to appear on the faces of those
eh ‘who have begun the semi-annual fortnight of cramming. The
| Re : Christmas examinations have arrived!
a For a very small majority, the prospect of writing at top
speed on shaky tables, fails to wake in them the pangs of a well
: spent term. These are the ones who have worked as we all should
_ have done. They have prepared their work from day to day
and are the true students. They know of what the professors
Po speak. The next two weeks is to them only a short period before
they come to the tests in which they know they will excel.

r

To the average student, examinations are sombre spectres,
which must be met and fought with grim determination. It
is with little joy that they look forward to the task of pitting

their limited knowledge and capabilities against the questions

$e on the various papers. This, however, is not all with which
“y must contend, for banked against every student are the

r conditions under which they write. A University of Dalsie’s standard should be able to produce a much better writing
ee tests each student’s endurance.

nt

>
we ,
er
' i

—¥
a
u

   

 
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
   

racket from ventilators and above all the

Pe ‘Under the present system enforced at Dalhousie, examinations

| ets are a necessary evil. There is no reason, however, why an improveYo a _ ment cannot be made in the conditions under which we write.
Ss Why cannot the University give us a fair chance to display our
_-—s wears in bearable surroundings and be rewarded by a general
improvement in the standard of results?

* | THE PROBLEM IS BEFORE US
K ae P (Reprinted by request).

 

         
 
 

toa Older men, occupying important positions in Canadian life,
ss ‘have endorsed the National Conference of Canadian Students
almost whole-heartedly, with one saving clause. That clause
was emphasized by Principal Wallace recently, and is implied in
the message from Mr. Rogers on page 1 of today’s Journal, namely,
that the students of Canadian universities have a wonderful
opportunity to achieve a memorable end at the coming conference,
ee but this end can be gained only by making it a student conference.

Too much emphasis has been placed in the past on faculty
advisers and the opinions of older people; these are appropriate

is not one of those places. If the National Conference is to achieve

recognition as an emporium of student opinion and student thought,

then it must be untarnished by the respected, but unstudent
opinions and ideas of non-students. It would be far better to
have students, and students only, at the Conference than a large
group of “leaders’’, distinguished and famous as they may be.


The Journal has received the list of so-called “‘leaders’’ for
_ the Conference but has not found it expedient to give it any great
degree of publicity for the simple reason that the most important
part of the Conference is the student part—in fact, it is the only
major part. It is imperative that what is said at Winnipeg shouid
be student utterances; if too many older people are on the program
the press, which will be watching the Conference carefully, will
a overlook student statements in favor of those of the “‘leaders.”’
This is a serious situation which should be checked before it has
a “snow-ball-on-a-hill’’ effect. We appeal to students in every
‘university in Canada to keep this point in mind when considering
_--—s-‘ their ~part at the conference. Let us make this Conference a
reflection of student opinion; the student, and what he says,
| _ must have the first place, must overshadow everything else that is
-___ said, regardless of the worldly position of other speakers.

 

i. —Queen’s University Journal.

BEAUTIFUL AND WISE

_--—s« “Our heartiest congratulations and sincere thanks go to the
i as cee who were responsible for the co-ed edition of the Gazette
oat last week. They produced an issue of our paper, which, judging

EA from the comments we have heard, was very well received. They
| _--— ably proved the fallacy of the “beautiful but dumb” adage and
have shown Dalhousians that they can be useful and intelligent
as well as ornamental. Again we extend our thanks.

|
‘ le
sa

ee
i? La '
h at, %
v=.

an »

andl

 

 
 
 
 

are drawbacks under which none should be

in their proper places, but, we would submit, a student conference | :

DALHOUSIE

 

oY <

Like a Phoenix from the ashes,
the Arts and Science Society has
raised its head again. Do I hear

somebody say—'‘Here’s that old question again; talk, talk, talk, and nothing
ever done-’’ Well, after all, isn’t
it a good thing that we have something
to complain about. A perfect university would be a rather insipid institution. As long as we have something
about which to grouse—be it the
university administration, the gymnasium management, the professors,
the Students’ Council, or even the
Arts and Science Society—we will be
happy. Paradoxically enough, that
fact does not mean that we should
try to keep things imperfect, but
rather that we should always keep
striving to reach an unattainable
goal of perfection.

At present, the Arts and Science
Society seems to be a very nebulous
conglomerate, fulfilling no particular
function which is of any value. It}
selects its executive, theoretically appoints managers for Arts and Science
teams (although many of its members
are ineligible for such teams), and
perhaps holds a nice little dance.

A facile “reasoning’’ would say—
since the Society performs no useful
purpose, let’s abolish it! The flaw in
that logic, however, is that if a thing
is useless now it does not follow that
it will be necessarily useless in the
future. Before abolition we must make
sure that the Arts and Science Society
would not, under any possible reorganization of our student political
system, fill a need not met fully by
the existing system.

Without claiming any originality
or perfection in them, I. would like
to present two alternative schemes
for consideration which would involve
an intensive shake-up of the Student
Body constitution but which might
result in some desirable reforms.

A. (1) Abolish the class system
except as far as purposes of initiation
and graduation require (i. e. have a
freshman and graduation class and
nothing in between).

(2) Either with or without abolition
of class system, let Arts and Science
Society consist only of students taking
Arts and Science—i. e. exclude Commerce and Engineers.

(3) Change representation system
on Council so that the Arts‘and Science
Society, and not the classes, make the
nominations for positions, and with
only Arts and Science students voting
for these five positions.

Or B. (1) In the case of the
second scheme, again, either with or
without abolition of classes, base
representation on societies and not on
classes.

(2) Change the Society’s name to
“Studley Society’’—to include all students registered on the Studley campus.

(8) At present, Studley has 7

GAZETTE

et: Fantasy - - Fancy’

and Fact

, 3 Tey eS Confounded Logic

This. story depicting the wit of theIrish is told in a book recently publish‘ed My ireland. An Englishman entered a railroad station. Two. clocks
hung on the wall. There was a slight
difference in the two timepieces. ‘‘Ha”’
he cried to an attendant, ““Why do you
need two clocks when they point to
different times?”’ The man moved
not a muscle, as he replied contemptuously, ‘“‘What would you want two
clocks for if they pointed to the same
time?”

Fascist Brazil

With a birth as quiet as the night,
Brazil, a fortnight ago, entered into a
pure Fascist state: The power of
government rests securely in the
hands of M. Vargas. That gentleman
was president previous co his own
elevation. All bodies of the executive
and judicial are subject to removal
at the word of Vargas. With a world
troubled and unhappy this new state |
of affairs caused little newspaper
comment. Perhaps the set up |
not so very novel- for Brazil. It|
might be noted that German radio
programmes flood the country. Ger
is

 

man trained, German sympathizing
men control the all-powerful army.
Germany cries for colonies. It was

significant that the Brazil issues on
the stock market: took a steep tumble
when the news broke.

 

Coffee

Brazil is the old original at ca
economic game of destroying surplus
produce to keep the prices up. For
years clouds of smoke have rolled from
Brazil’s warehouse where excess coffee |
is put to flame. But now it appears
with other South American countries

taking advantage of the reduction,
and in no way contributing towards
it, Brazil has finally abandoned this
The United States in their
found

scheme.
cotton-destroying programme
also that it’s a tough job in a tough
world,

(L. A K.)

 

 

elected representatives; give these seven
seats to this new Society to be filled
according to their constitution. Kelegate the Commerce and Engineering
Societies to the background—still existing, but mere parts of the ‘Studley
Society’’ so far aS representation is

concerned.

I regret that lack of space prevents
me at the present time from going into
the pros and cons of the above points
at length. I feel, however, that either
scheme might do wonders in rejuvenating the Studley campus. A system,
you will say, is mere mechanics, and
will fail unless the proper spirit is
there. The answer is that the spirit
is there—but has no means of expression as far as most of the Arts and

classes mean nothing. Either of the
schemes which I propose, I| suggest,
would provide that means of e..pression

that outlet of energy. I. M.

 

 

When You Need

 

PRESCRIPTIONS

 

or any other Drug Store Merchandise

DRUGS MEDICINES
You" get better
at

SERVICE

and VALUE

KINLEY’S DRUG STORES

 

WALLACE BROS.

The Home of High Class
Footwear at reasonable prices
Wishes the students of
Dalhousie
A MERRY CHRISTMAS
and

A HAPPY NEW YEAR

Wallace Bros. Ltd.

415 Barrington St.
New Address

Green Lantern Bldg.

 

  

Science students; to the majority
|

A Merry Christmas
and a
Happy New Year

to all.

Henry Birks & Sons

Limited
Diamond Merchants
Halifax

 

a oe

December, 3rd, 1937

 

“lel take a lot of shopping to cover that Christmas list”

“No, it won't — most of them are getting 200 Sweet Caps!”

SWEET CAPORAL CIGARETTES

“The purest form in which tobacco can be smoked.” —{°ancet

 

    
 
 
    

CAPITOL - NOW

ICTORIA
/#oGREAT

“3s with

>: ANNA NEAGLE - ANTON WALBROOK
ie H. B. WARNER - WALTER RILLA

and thousands of others...

Produced and directed by
HERBERT WILCOX

Screen Play by Miles Malleson
and Charles DeGrandcourt

with scenes in breathless
TECHNICOLOR

—— “
ORR ae

   

~~

OKO RAD EOE |

 

     

MARTIN'S

COMPLETE ASSORTMENT OF GIFTS
MODERATELY PRICED

37 Spring Garden Road
PARKER PEN AND PENCIL AGENTS

 

   

   
  
   

 

 

One Thing That It Takes
To Bring You Higher Grades

Caine

wen

The Revolutionary Pen with
Sl Television Sube Sof
The Parker Vacumatic

Now—to help put your Learning onahigher
plane than ever, Parker presents its greatest
achievement—the Parker Vacumatic.

A conquering Pen is this, because it never
runs dry in classes or exams. It gives you continuous year-round mileage if you merely fill
it 3 or 4 times from one birthday to the next.

Held to the light, it shows the ENTIRE ink
supply—shows days ahead if it’s running low.
A wholly exclusive and original style—Parker’s
laminated Pearl and Jet —now with restful
slenderized shape.

And not merely modern in Style, but modern also in mechanism. Its SACLESS and
patented Diaphragm Filler radically departs
from all earlier types, whether they have a
rubber ink sac or not.

Good pen counters are now showing this
pedigreed Beauty. Go and see and tryit today.
The Parker Fountain Pen Co., Limited,
Toronto, Ontario.

Makers of Quink, the new pencleaning ink. 15c, 25c and up.

Pavkite

Sy VACA =>
GUARANTEED MECHANICALLY PERFECT
Senior-$10; Junior-$5—Pencils to match, $2.50, $3.50 and $5

HOLDS 102%
MORE INK

 

THAN OUR
FAMOUS DUOFOLD

 

 

 
PI tee ee ee tes Fe a fy kee i ee ee eee
ee 4 ied Po“ _ 4 oa" a Ls - a
tT he ne Pb ye eae ge FP
* ge | Sy + eS edae ea
eee Ce shia god a eas eee ys .
- ts ~ ‘ “>. a
3 oy . = - ¥ —

ve or

al Explorer ‘|PineHill Vignettes

The first floor” of the old building,
and the- old--building--generally are

   
   
  
  
     
  
   
  
  
 
 
  
  
  
   
  
   
   
   
  
  
  
  
 
   
    
   
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
 
    
  
  
 
 
   
  
   
   
 
   
   
   
 
 
  
   
  
  
   
 
   
   
  
   
  
  
 
 
   
    
 
   
   
   
   
  

1 divert their paigiblatic energies
ard their studies, we would have
ew genius indeed at the University.
n our midst we now have a ‘Fighting
Esquire’ whose prowess is exceeded
only by Killer Emanuel the First.
nong our now more famous char‘Ss, your very own correspondent
Srapardonable pride in presenting
ae ths student body, Mr: Robert
“. S) Wallick (Hymie to the boys). For
3 the first time in years, dentistry was
__ Fepresented (with flying colours) in
verbal warfare in the N. F. C, U.S.
debate at this University, For lighting
a spark which has long been dormant,
ped which we sincerely hope will
| awaken the sleeping brilliance in the
_ Dental School, for taking the initiative
_ where the wariest mariners fear to
treat (a dentist voicing himself among
i: ' the lawyers), it is a pleasure and a
te for us to present him with
yas orchid a la T. Y. M. (By the way—
_ your “Explorer's” name is not Wallick).
38 The best of luck in the exams and
_. remember, now is the time to hit it.
 T remain.
ao THE EXPLORER.

*
oe 1

Lecture System

_ The Educated Bore by
Flora Leslie Black

the world of sport. Last week they
trimmed representatives from the Annex about so much to nil, in Basketball.
They have yet to beat the record of
the Annexin ping-pong and marbles.

 

Wallie Sellars is-looking around for
a title to his latest musical composition.
All suggestions should be sent to the
music committee, where they will be
severely censored. It is a safe prediction that his song will lead the
Hit Parade for several weeks (if it
ever gets there).

The Nicholson-Hilton billiard feud
is progressing rapidly. At one time
Peter was approximately a dollar in
arrears, and goodness knows how
many points. The latest information
is that the debts have been closed and
that Nicholson refuses to enter into
further strife. It isn't really gambling,
because Hilton is putting his money
on a sure thing.

 

 

Armistice Day saw the renewal of
hostilities between the Old Building
| Aristocrats and the Annex Alley Rats
on the Dal field. Though outnumbered two to one the Aristocrats managed
to get over three times. However
the score (11 to nil) is the least. important part. The Mighty Hammer
and the Gay Lothario accounted for
a good deal of the success of the Aristocrats, but the hockey pants draped
on the hips of Lothario (said to be the
property of Hammer) went west after
the first play. Apart from the. professionals mentioned above, Stan MacQueen and Doug Canteloupe put
up the snappiest play of the morning
Gordon Whidden surprised evervone
with his long runs and Tilley Asbell
with his short wind..
We wonder where Dave MacIntosh
disappears over the week-ends. Some
one mentioned Kentville.- Come clean,
Dave, Who is sheCongratulations to Doug MacKein
who has been selected recently to
|represent Dalhousie at Acadia early
‘in January, in the first intercollegiate
debate of the new term.
_ Clyde Slade, playboy and man
about town remained seated on part
of Ceorge McElman’s raincoat while
George emerged from the back: seat
with the other. part, In the realm
of fancy, I faney, thinking of Pathology, no doubt.

The Cow

“The cow is one wonderful animal,
also he is quadruped and because he
is female he gives milk—but he will
do’ so only when he has got- child.
He is same like God, sacred to Hindu
and useful to men. But he has got
four legs together. Two are forward
and two are afterwards.

“His whole body can be utilised
for use. More so the milk. What it
cannot do? Various ghee, butter,
cream, curds,, whey, kova and the

: '
b

ae :

bk=

as

‘ He sat in lounging attitude,

+. And spoke of every platitude
In his cerebral latitude,

cae ae Which wasn't very great.

2% wae He talked of portends visible

if ea And quantities divisible

And every subject fizzable

_ Within his stupid head.

_ Promoting indigestion, and
-  _ Ignoring all suggestion, and
f * Stone deaf to Rint or question, and
a At ease the monster sate.
- Like workers in a glovery
ee: ‘Milled his thoughts upon Recovery;
- But, braving sure discovery,
. mm _ We shot the fellow dead.
Se agen Meanitoban.
pe rtae
ee The Lecture Syston
ae » lectured into a Degree.
for ourselves. We
it to become repeating mach‘Taken from the University
De 2 Town y es the above

Pe Hoksie. | This year the oleccsity
Cape Town conducted a campaign
yainst the lecture system which is
nothing more than ‘a process by
_ Which the notes of the lecturer are
Occ to the notebook of the
. student without passing through the
_ minds of either.” Their primary de4 mand was that al! lecture attendance
be voluntary, as it is as Oxford and
_ Cambridge. Secondly, they called for
‘printed notes in such subjects as they
. concede to require careful notes (a
compromise, the wisdom of which is
highly debatable). Finally, they asked
_ for discussion groups and _ tutorials
as the more effective successors to
© lectures. condensed milk and so forth. Also
* It is extremely lamentable that the|he is useful to cobbler, watermans
lecture system (which did have aj|and mankind generally.
definite value in the days when book “His motion is slow only. That is
were scarce and knov.ledge was most | because he-is of amptitudinous species
cheaply disseminated through the med-|and also his other motion is much
ium of such men as had had oppor- | useful to trees, plants as well as making
tunity to study the ~then-existing| fires. This is done by making flat
Manuscripts) should have survived|cakes in hand and drying in sun.
in SO Many modern universities. Most “He is the only animal that extripeople recognize this, but few seem| cates his feedings after eating. Then
' able to arouse sufticient energy to| afterwards he eats by his teeth whom
affect the change. Mt. Allison, who| are situated in the inside of his mouth.
iB) is now experimenting with a tutorial He is incessantly grazing in the mead- system, is an exception to the rule. OWS ON grass, :

“What is needed, then, is initial “His only attacking and defending
I nye to start a movement for] Weapons are his horns, especially so
> reform at Dalhousie, and there is no| when he has got child. This is done

_ reason why we should not provide| by bowing his head whereby he causes
_ that impetus. After all, we're the|the weapons to be parallel to ground
Be ones who have to listen to the lectures, ;Ol earth and instantly proceeds with
C We have the facilities, too, for the great velocity forwards.

a discussion and the publication of the “He has got tail also, but not Bie
Bi direction that the movement for reform | Other similar animals. It has hairs
_ should take, in the current commissions | On the end of the other side: This-is
S Set up by the Local Conference Com-| done to frighten away the flies: which
i? - mittee and the ‘‘Gazette”. Of course, alight on his whole body and chastises
and this statement is made in all|him unceasingly, whereupon he gives
_ sincerity, it might be that the majority | hit with it.

52 of students here are inentally too| “The palms of his feet are so soft
_ immature to approve of orto desire| Unto the touch, so that the grasses
_ any deviation from a system which|he eats would not get crushed. At
_ gives one the prestige of an university | Night time he reposes by going down
Be ree with the expenditure of none|0n the ground and then he shuts his
>of. the energy that creative thinking | eyes like his relative the horse which
' calls for. In that event, the most |does not do so. This is the cow.”
eal the more intelligent minority| The above essay was sent by a
n do is an ineffectual shrugging of | candidate seeking. employment in one
3 oulders and a resigned shaking of of, our Colonies in. e Tropics. —Fa..

 

f

ae
i, s- re
ee

ee Fr

él ae

fi
Ww M. —University of ape Town T attle.
i : 5 pat as: “ es uy, We
i re, . L,
ee ye ees
—_ = tlt ne “rr, ;
i acta = eae a ;

acknowledged as” thé champions in |‘

. = —— +e
eer CST sore”
‘

RE EAN | ca 2
3 mre a: “, te oy igen é S Ath hee se ®
ee = = =: sia 
ened

orn,

—<

DALHOUSIE. GAZ ETTE ’

Quebec Facism

We have heard much protest recently

from.many quarters about Aberhart’s
‘press-gag’’ law, but we have not
heard nearly as much, particularly
from federal government spokesmen,
about the Duplessis ‘‘padlock” law
in Quebec. The Alberta law has
been held up by reference to the
courts, but the Quebec law is now in
action. Why this difference in attitude?

The padlock law, passed last spring,
was invoked the other day against
La Clarte, a paper whose opinions
are Communist or at any rate, leftist.
This was not, however, the first
indication that the Quebec government: has taken the fascist attitude
that the public is not to be trusted,
and that everything that the public
reads, sees, or hears, must be censored
in advance. We understand that the
moving picture, ‘‘The Life of Emile
Zola”, has been banned in Quebec,
for the sole reason, as the Winnipeg
Free Préss says, ‘‘that it describesa
successful protest by a radical against
stupid and intolerant bureaucracy.”
Other examples abound. Outstanding
was the prohibition by the mayor of
Montreal, induced by an unlawful
threat by the students of the University of Montreal to riot if he did
not accede to their demands, of a
Communist meeting of October last,
and, in October, 1936, of a meeting
to hear a Spanish Government delegation.

The padlock law, it will be remembered, gives the Attorney-General of
Quebec power to padlock for a year
any “house’’ in Quebec, which is
used to “propagate Communism or
Bolshevism by any means whatsoever.’ A “house’’ under the Act
includes even a vehicle, but no definition of Communism is given. Another
section of the act, that governing the
press, is even broader in scope—anything even “tending to propagate
Communism” is prohibited. As says
the Free Press again, ‘‘under that
law it would be an offence to circulate
the works of Karl Marx, Bernard
Shaw, G. D. H, Cole, John Strachey
and a host of other writers whose
books are in every properly constituted
public library and familiar to all
educated men.” Mr. Duplessis has
even intimated that he regards the
C. C. F. as a communistic organization—the C. C. F., as a political party
respectable enough to have representation in many of our legislative assemblies (which, indeed, is His Majesty's
Opposition in Saskatchewan), and
which includes many clergymen and
other professional men.

The supporter of Duplessis’ fanatical
fascism will say that the writer of
this article must be a supporter of
Communism, { emphatically deny
that such is the case. On the contrary, paradoxically enough, I oppose
the padlock law because I oppose
Communism, because I believe that
doctrines such as Communism flourish
when suppressed, and die when brought
into the open and exposed to the

light of reason. Such laws as _ this
strengthen the convictions of .the
Communist, and turn socialists, who

believe in peaceful change, into Communists.

Whether in the strict sense con
CHRISTMAS GIFTS OF LEATHER
LUGGAGE AND UTILITY CASES

at low

KELLY S LTD.

118 GRANVILLE ST.

 

Christmas Gifts that are

in spite of the fact that the literary

' ~ Obiter

Those Dalhousie students who were
privileged, as. I was, to hear the Vienna
Mozart Boys’ Choir at the School
for the Blind last Saturday will heartily
agree that there was a great improvement in their performance over that
in the gym, Thursday noon. I speak
from the depths of abysmal ignorance,
but I suggest that the truth of the
matter is not that the voices of the
choir underwent any vast change,
but that the Hall of the Blind School
is more conducive to the smooth
flow of sound without the benefit
of echoes. After the manner of Kipling’s Stalky I gloat, Ti-ra-la-la-i-iu,
because no one can come back and
tell me that those boys didn’t understand the art of voice production.
Maybe it has something to do with
acoustics, The way the Choir sang
Oh Canada was a treat as well. It has
a beneficial effect on our well-known
patriotic natures; otherwise, the effort
put forth at the close of a _ recent
lecture, heard: (by those in the front
seats) in the gym, niake us,
follow a secession policy for Canada

Go West, Young Man

At last Mr. Greelv's advice will be
heeded. Six from Dalhousie at least
will trek to Winnipeg for a Christmas
holiday, An analysis of the choice
of the committee will be quite significant. From the Law School emanate
three, half of the group. One from
King's, as one had to be. Two, then,
are from Studley, but what part of
Studley, if mot post praduate. The
remaining One is picked to represent
new students, (not, I take it, necessarily freshman), An impartial and
independent committee could find only
two out of three hundred at Studley
and three out of seventy-five in Law.
Yet every once in a long while some
innocent pipes up wondering why
the Meds and Law run Dalhousie.
Often too, from the same source one
hears criticism about the way the
professions run things. The answer
is this, the invitation is always there,
any one in the University can take
a stab at it, if he or she wants to. Of
course, even the worm will turn, but
when?

would

Au Revoir

Unfortunately, I can think of no
Latin expression which so well. fits
the occasion as the French one, so

value of this effort will be lessened
by the absence of evidence of prowls
among the classics, it will have to do.
About this time every year student

activities stop and the one extra
curricular activity of most students,
work, begins. Christmas is near. We
will now reap our wild oats, unless
our pravers for a crop failure were
heard and heeded. (J. B.°M.)

 

 

—SSSES
stitutional or not, the padleck law
of Quebec is obviously a direct invasion of the rights of free thought
and speech, which we as British subjects have come to regard as our
natural heritage. The freedom of the
press vas won, has been maintained,
and will continue to be maintained,
only by people daring to fight for it,
and willing to sacrifice for it—not
by weak-kneed compliance to the
orders of a usurpatory and_dictatorial
government. I, M. M.

prices

Simart and Different

When leaving for the holidays, take home a

gift to Dad or Brother

- - smart shirts, ties,

pajamas, dressing gowns, etc.

Shane’s Men’s Shop

30 Spring Garden Rd.

Discount of 10% to Students

 

 

 

 

Page Three

WHY NOT ENJOY
ONE EVERY DAY ?

eae ee GATES

= UNIVERS ee OF SASKATCHEWAN

onstructed of native field stone

of a warm grey tone with tints of

   
   
   

pink and yellow—these beautiful gates
were dedicated May 3rd, 1928...
to the memory of students and staff

who fell during the Great War.

——_

ye Consols

CIGARETTES

THE UNIVERSITY MAN’S FAVOURITE

 

 

 

 

 

MR BLAKELEY expresses
his gratitude to the Students
of Dalhousie University for
their fine Patronage of his
Restaurant during the term
and extends toall the Best
Wishes for

A VERY MERRY
CHRISTMAS
and
A HAPPY AND PROSPEROUS
NEW YEAR

BLAKELEY’S 
RESTAURANT
43 Spring Garden Rd.

DRUGS

CHOCOLATES

FOUNTAIN

 

MacLeod, Balcom

Limited

 

- Taste Will Tell ‘

THE PREFERENCE FOR FARMERS’
ICE CREAM IS OBVIOUS

.t is made of the choicest of cream and

pure ripe fruit.

**Taste The Difference’’

Farmers’ Limited

HALIFAX, N.S.

 

 
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
    
      
    
   
  
   
    
     
 
  
   
  
 
 
 
    
   
   
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
   
    
  
  
  
    
  
  
   
  
    
 
 
   
    

RESULTS
_ BADMINTON
) Halifax Club 16 = Dalhousie 14
PING-PONG

“He Reardon def. S. Schlosberg

BADMINTON

she Halifax Badminton Club dePes e. leavad a Student-Alumni team by the
score of 16-14 at the Dalhousie Gym
 jast Friday night. The meeting featured many keen matches but the Halifax Club earned their margin by mak.
_ ing a clean sweep of the men’s singlesThe Student-Alumni girls made a very
good showing dropping only one match
in the women’s singles division. A
return engagement is to be played
shortly. Following are the results of
the evenings play.

7

_ Men s singles—Bev Piers (H) def.
C. W. Sperry, 15-17, 18-14; R. Hatfield (H) def. R. Murray, 15-3, 15-1;
B. Hebb (H) def. W. Douglas, 15-0,
17-15; El Woodworth (H) def. D.
Fay, 15-6, 15-1; E. Murray (H) def.
Be, bin C. Myers, 15-18, 15-12; B. Filliter
_(H) def. G. McKnight (D), 6-15, 15-7;
| —Hfx. 6-Dal 0

Womens singles—M. Batt (D)
def. C. McInnis, 11-0, 13-12; Mrs.
~ Henshaw (H) def. A. McLean, 11-5,
— «U1; 11-6; J. Anderson, (D) def.
eS _ Mrs. “Dobbie, 10-11, 11-7, 11-2; Z.
‘a eee (D) def. D. Elliott, 11-6,
1-2 eg pane om) def. P. eee

s (D) def “Oland and D. Spry,
ek 8 a6 16-4; B. Dunbar and B.

Heb (H) def. Hiseler and D. Ander< : roe son, 15-9, 15-5; R. Hiseler and George

Le a McKnight (D) def. Smith and P.

r mys ~MeMillan, 15-8, 6-15, 15-6; Webster

oes aks -and Nickerson (H) def. C. Humphreys

er ald and Lane (D) def. E. Murray and
ie oe P. King, 12-15, 15-18, 18-16. Hfx. 83—
ae © Paks.

Womens doubles—M. Batt and
R, Remmillard (D) def. P. Weatherbe
and Mrs. Winfield, 10-15, 15-9, 15-12;)
Mrs. Ritchie and B. Weatherbe Sh

’
print

THREE SERVICES

To cover the laundry
needs of college students

 
    
     
 
      
      
       
     
   
     
       
   
       
     
    

  

FIRST SERVICE

A special list price for
the student who wishes
to send less than a dozen
articles.

SECOND SERVICE

>.

 
  
 

 
 

For those who have
a dozen or more pieces
to be laundered.

 
 

 
 

The Price — 60c. per
dozen.

 
 
 

THIRD SERVICE

The lowest fully finished price in the city
for the student with a
large bundle.

  

  

8c a pound

Min. 12 lbs.—95c.

The Halifax
= Steam Laundry

Phone L-2309.

 

and Wetmore, 15-10, 15-1; W. McDon- |

 

a Dal Deans Badminton Tourney
Bs @ - But Co-eds Win Many Matches

16-18, 15-9, 15-4; E. Bauld and Mrs,
Rankine (H) def. P. Miller and I.
Freestone, 15-9, 15-1; J. Anderson and
Z. Linkletter (D) def. Mrs. Henshaw
and D. Elliott, 15-8, 15-9; A. McLean
and O. Dennis (D) def. M. Currie and
Mrs. Dunbar, 15-6, 15-10; B. Smith

and M. Fraser (D) def, C. Poston and |
2

Mrs. 15-10. Hfx

Dal 4.

Dobbie 15-8,

Mixed doubles—B. Piers and E.

Bauld (H) def. C. Keddy and A.
Longard, 15-7, 15-10; R. Hatfield and
Mrs. Poston (H) def. R. Evans and B.
Smith, 17-16, 18-17; D. Fay and I.
Freestone (D) def. J. Haylock and P.
Weatherbe, 15-12, 15-6; J. McLaren
and Mrs. Rankine (H) def. G. Hiseler
and P. Miller (D) 8-15, 15-8, 15-8;
Sancton and Miss Lane (H) def. D.
Anderson and D. Dennis, 17-16, 12-15,
15-6, Hfx.4—Dal2

—_

PING-PONG

The pre-Christmas Ping-Pong tournament was wound up on Saturday
afternoon when Henry Reardon_batted out a hard fought fine game victory over S. Achlosbuig in the fina
round. The semi-finals also produced
some fast games. Schlosburg was

forced to three games to eliminate

| Gordon Hennigar in the upper brack
1 et and in the lower bracket G. Lehr gave

Reardon two very hard games. This

-|tournament was in the nature of a
‘warm up and a much more ambitious the Dumb-bell Doctors”.

one will be started after Christmas.
Following are the results of the semifinal and final rounds.

Semi-Finals

S. Schlosburg—G. Hennigar,
18-21; 22-20; 21-19.
H. Reardon—G. Lehr
21-19; 21-19

Finals

H, Reardon—S. Schlosberg
19-21; 21-19; 18-21; 22-20

DRY CLEANING

PRESSING

    
  

REPAIRING

DYEING

 

SPECIAL LOW RATES |
for Students

 

Suits - Coats - Dresses

Dry Cleaned
(Standard Service) 65 Cc
45c

Telephone L-2323

Suits Sponged and

Pressed

or see our representative
at your Frat House or
College Residence

COUSINS Ltd.

_ Master Cleaners and Dyers

    
  

SS

renaanedo sane

 

 

GAZ ETTE

I CAN BE WRONG

by r. d.

It’s half time and the boys are |
taking time out in the Library.

 

Like many of our other battles,
the next big battle will be waged in|
the Gymnasium. The Professors will |
be there—the studes will be there—
in fact this is one time, when we will

be able to count on every one to be} right.”

there.

It’s funny, we crab the same every |rumour that Dalhousie is to have a | Bauld to
year but when we stop at the half|girl’s hockey

way mark and at the end to look
back and take stock we decide things | ‘

aren't quite so bad after all.-—No, we | for $200 to support that team.”
didn’t win the Rugby League either prompts the most sober

Senior or Intermediate—but then think
of the fun we had.
the purpose of sport.

There's one thing every one has to
admire about Dalhousie athletes... As

 

hurst

battle. C. B. C. ‘the pride of the
| McNeil clan’’ punched so many holes
in the Doctor's line that it looked
like a strainer. But his mates let him
down.

Taken from last week’s. Gazette,
“For once ‘I Can Be. Wrong’ was

Now, can you tie that?

A few weeks age we threw out the,

team. ‘Tis true, boys,
‘tis true. But this is the latest:
‘They're going to petition the Council

It all
minded to
“What's this present generation

ask,

After all that’s} (of Co-ed’s) coming to or going from.”

That'll be dainty, now won't it.

The future of hockey for the weaker

soon as their opponents have smeared|sex at the present is ten times as

them and humbled them
most decisive defeat—the Tigers get
up and start talking about how good
next year’s team will be.

Before going farther we wish to} Glasgow, Truro and some mote.

with the/| black

as Ruth Goodman's face in
the Frosh Glee Club One

morning this week Dalhousians picked

show,

up their morning paper to read Dal
housie had entered a league with New
Five

toss an orchid to ‘I Can Be Right’! | minutes later Gordon Thompson was
You handled a most difficult assign- | saying ‘it’s all news to me.’

ment in fine style. Personally we

Unless we're mistaken this is once

favour the Wrong to the Right because | that the D. A. A. C. hasn't something

of our notorious reputation as pickin’
the winners. But if you'd like to
go in the line at any time, subbing
for us, just let us know—‘You're a
better man than [ am, Gunga Din.’

Perhaps the biggest upset of the
half year of sport was furnished by
Those lads

hurdle an Arts and Science machine
that had been running in high gear all
year, to capture the [nterfaculty
football crown.

The glory of that victory must be
shared between ‘‘Goose Gosse”’ the
man who anteloped his way
the line and ‘‘Harassing Harris’, the
fast talking manager who humbled
the Artsmen with syllables.

lily
final

the
that

‘akes
in

Cameron MeNeil t
for his performance

 

ee

——$§< ELAINE SAT RET ET
BADMINTON!

Have you made your
selection of Badminton
supplies for the year?

Our stock is complete in
cluding
RACQUETS and COVERS
PRESSES BIRDS
NETS GYM SHOES

— Drop In Soon —

The Halifax Hardware
Limited
397 Barrington St.

3 Days Starting Saturday
December 4th.

THE BIG LAUGH SHOW!

“LIFE OF

THE PARTY”

with

GENE RAYMOND
JOE PENNER >
PARK YAKARKUS
- VICTOR MOORE
HELEN BRODERICK
HARRIET HILLIARD

 

across} you ever right.”

eo.

up it’s sleeve. They're really up a
tree this time.
In the meantime the Dalhousie

plavers are turning out for everybody,
but Dalhousie.

And while the hockey moguls flounder
about in hot water basketball goes
as Sparrow's upper lip.

Maybe that weaker sex stufi is a lot

of hokum.

To “Another Freshman’’ and ‘Are

Sorry fella’s vou'll

eee eo eQg_aoeee

 

Co ae eee renee ES ord, 1937

 

or rrr ne

 

SCHE DULE

HOCKEY AND BASKETBALL
LEAGUES WILL GET UNDER

WAY AFTER CHRISTMAS.

 

 

Dal Victorious

(Continued from Page 1)

have to sign your name to your letters.
If you wish a nom de plume used say
so and we'll print it.

 

 

 

| Council has kept our constitution
re alive and progressive in a_ rapidly

Dear Y. F. B.S., BEoe ’
changing world and _ provided our

 

strongest guarantee against oppression
of racial and provincial minorities
could not be denied—and gave them

|! take the liberty of cutting your

|! letter.

| With reference to President Gordon

victory.
Thompson's refusing to allow Gordon ae une tg ,
le j a te W : The judges of the debater were
play rugby for Wanderer Hy Ae hae 2 a eee
onourable Mr. Justice Carroll ol
and then play basketball and tennis ; nt ie at
the Supreme Court of Nova Seotia

 

for Dal, ‘‘you must remember old man

Honourable Dr. Davis, provincial Minister of Health: and Mr. C. P. Bethune,
Halifax City Solicitor. Dean MacDonald of the Law School was chairman
of the meeting.

Sodales executive wish to congratu
that every organization must have rules
or we'll all be in a hellova mess. One
of the rules contained in the constitution of the D. A. A. C., says that a student must
play the college
wishes it can waiver its right on a player, but that often is not in the best in
attending this university
for the College. If ;
% late their debaters on their remarkable
inter
showing in a whole season of

 

; collegiate debates without a single
terests of the player or the organiza- .
ben ; vote cast against them. Every mem2 . ber of the Society is determined that
Personally, | like you, wanted to see]. he
: ; this will be a year of victories. Directl,
Bauld play basketball for Dalhousie— ae ; .
: : ; ; the Christmas holidays Sodales goes
he’s a mighty fine athlete and despite ; =
. to battle again when Doug MacKean
before he ; S : eats
: : ; and Stu Lane invade Wolfville to
would be a credit to Dalhousie as an ea
convince Acadians “That a Japanese
athlete and a gentleman. But I can C Chi baa ta ha
-onquest 0 ina would be in the
also see the D. A. A. C. point of view.

interests of world peace.’’ There will

Your comment on hockey which [|
will present as is may account for the
poor turnout at hockey practice.

“Everytime I pick up a Gazette |
see “turn out for hockey in big black
letters'—and then in the next line—
‘How about Co-operation.”’ All right
then Mr. I Can Be Wrong do you know
many of ‘us fellas’ turned out to hockey
practice and were told not to bother
coming again.
of better sport.

If they keep yelling they may get

be more intercollegiate platform debates, radio debates,
Bennett Shield debates,
naries. Everyone who can speak Eng
|
|
lish or American is asked to turn out |
|
|

alumni debates,
and prelimi
to help carry Sodales through to a
glorious finish the year so well begun.

In the meantime, as Sodales activities have ceased until after examinations
and we shall not be with you until
next year, Sodales executive extends
to all their very best wishes for success

Is that in the interests

at I've aaid about him

. , in examinations, a joyous holiday
Conacher or Shore out yet. Who ”
i. season, and a most prosperous year to
knows; :
come.

 

—_——o
So long—the best of Juck in your
Xmas Xaims—and a Merry Christmas.
P.S. Be careful on New Year's eve.

“A friend many well be reckoned the
masterpiece of "_R. W. Emerson.

nature,

 

 

SO see PAS SOS ES SO Se ag

| EATON'S
CHRISTMAS NECKWEAR

 

 

+

Sasser sarneainacnaroaronenanernermareeasarossaion:

InjWide Variety

Priced At, Each

75c to 3.50

Always the popular, useful gift for all men—
A smart looking, well chosen necktie—
You should have no difficulty in selecting
several from EATON’S wide assortment.
Why not visit the Store at your earliest
opportunity and choose while the range is
complete —Colours and patterns to suit
practically all tastes.

 

ce

MEN’S
FINE SHIRTS

Priced At, Each

2.00 to 5.00

Fine materials and smart styling are features
of our range of shirts. Patterns and colourings, too are notable. Various well known
makes in the group. Sizes 14 to 17.

EATON’S

EATON

"MARITIMES

S Men's Wear Department—Main Floor.

Co

 

ee
