  
 
 
  

  
  

Mass a
| Room 3

 

 

VOL. LXVIII.

€

ye"

 

 

 

Carleton Courts To Be Used
By Dal Students As Ice Rink

(A endian Defeats
Dal Debaters

Amid the rain and ice of Friday,
Jan. 7, the banner of Sodales was
borne into Wolfville by Doug MacKean
and Stu. Lane. When the smoke)
of verbal battle cleared away, the
judges handed the palm of victory
to the Acadia Athaneum debaters,
who were represented by Henry Crowell and Murray North.

The subject under discussion was
“Resolved that a Japanese conquest
of China would be in the interests of
World Peace.” The question was attacked from the historical and economic side by Dal and from the humanitarian side by Acadia.

The Dal team advocated equal
rights for Japan, her supremacy in
the Far East and a facing of real
facts in World politics. Acadia de‘nounced illegal aggression and drew
.,| dark pictures of Japanese ambitions.

It was Sodales first defeat this year,
but the watchword is, “We shall be
avenged.” Congratulations, Acadia!

Rogers Upholds

Labour Unions

 

 

The Gazette is proud to announce
HM that at last Dalhousie is to have a
: skating rink of her own—not a hockey
ex rink, ‘tis true, but at least an ice
| - surface. Brought to their attention

only a few days ago, quick-acting
* student officials have obtained pera ee mission to use the Carleton tennis
ee, courts as a rink for the remainder
oe of the season, and it is hoped an
excellent ice surface will be laid and
ss geady for use over the week-end.

 
   
  
   
   
   
   
 

Phe three courts with twenty-odd
- feet back of the base lines should
give Dalhousians a spacious rink of
their own—a need at this University
for many. years. The co-eds’ hockey
‘team, which at present is said to
_ sexist only on paper, will use the rink
hth for their practice periods, Council
mj President “Tag” Day told the Gazette
; Jf geeieeday: Permission has not yet
an obtained to take” out the “six

   
  

 

 

The” matter of cleaning the ice of
ity atcha and flooding has given no little
neat worry» to student government officials.
President Day believed that flooding
could perhaps be obtained from the
City Fire Department, or failing that
‘from a University employee. A hy- Kingston, Ont., Jan. 12—(CUP)—
_ drant stands at the corner of College] The power of the government must
and Carleton Streets which could be|be applied in maintaining law and
used, with the City’s permission, for| order during a strike, in upholding
this purpose. The matter of clearing | freedom of Association, and the right
the snow away presents greater diffi-| of workers to organize in unions and
culties and though nothing definite] in providing machinery through mediahas been settled many ideas have|tion and the Boards of conciliation
been submitted. Perhaps the most] for the settlement of disputes which
logical of these is that the various} do not respond to collective bargaining,
fraternities and other well-defined| stated Hon. Norman Rogers, Federal
groups be given the rink for skating| Minister of Labour in his rectorial
parties, provided they clear off the | address at Queens this morning. The
snow. With a little co-operation this} Rector, an outstanding Canadian, is
proposal should solve the problem|appointed by the students of the
with no expense to the students. University for a two-year term, during
which he delivers one or more formal
addresses.

Speaking on the subject, ‘Towards
Industrial Peace’, Mr. Rogers said that
the question of industrial peace is
one of human relations which has
become increasingly important in economie structure of the modern democratic state.

Street lamps skirt the rink on two
sides and no difficulty along the
lighting line for night skating is expected. With the acquisition of the new
rink great possibilities are open to the
students. Why not a Dalhousie Night,
complete with the Dal Band and all
that goes with it? An amplifier would
be needed but perhaps even that
may come with student or alumni
help. The rink will be used exclusively
for Dalhousians and the use of the
eT Carleton club-house has been obtained, | «
and only a few years away is the
Forrest store, which is open at night.

Ie e fa =

 

pk cb dp eDBe reo
¥ CP oe eS x
> . 4 — 7
i M oii
{

77)

 

8
= ”
a
im"
5
¢

Boilermakers’ Ball
Success

a
we Le Mable
, a
yt Sr

a
a

—
=,
=
- 1
i *
=z

With all due respect to the Lawyers
and the Doctors the Engineers staged
e ° the outstanding event of the College
Install P rincipal year. ‘“‘Wrays’ of sunshine  flitted
through the ballroom as three hundred
Montreal, Que., Jan. 12 (CUP)—J|joyous students and friends swung
Last Friday saw installation of Doctor| and swayed to the inimitable music of
Lewis Williams Douglas as Principal |} Harp Sadler and his band.
of McGill. He is first American to| Attempts at new rythmatic measures
hold a CollegePresident’s job in Canada. | of the modern dance were successfully
Chancellor Beatty said “Dr. Douglas may | executed (literally) by the engineers
express his opinions and endeavour|and their guests. The much adverto influence the work of the University | tised Nova Scotian organ was conspicu" Dr. Douglas} ous by its absence but this deficiency
sadeplied that the universities “have| was more than made up by the excel“hot been and must not become in-| lent floor show.
ments of political propaganda.| The chaperones of the evening were
h ey. ‘must. continue to be sanctuaries| Prof. and Mrs. W. P. Copp, Prof.
for intellectual integrity.” and Mrs. H. R. Theakston, Prof. and
4 vie Mrs. M. Macneil.

HALIFAX, N. S., JANUARY, 14th, 1938

 

 

| llc Hero ed | Campus Hero ||Studer

 

- ~

DON MacGREGOR

Dalhousie’s sandy haired, hard hitting defenceman, who was one of the
principal reasons why Dalhousie came
from behind a 8-1 second period score
to trim the Haligonians in an overtime feature on Wednesday.

Players’ Guild
Meets Tuesday

The Players’ Guild held its first
meeting on Tuesday noon and was
well attended. Walter Murphy took
the chair and explained the aims of
the society—principally that of fostering the general knowledge of the drama
and the stage. It was decided to hold
meetings €very second week on Tuesday evening at the Murray Homestead where their plays chosen by the
members of the Guild will be acted.
For the next meeting ‘‘Private Lives’’
“Dear Brutus” and ‘‘Half-Hour” are
to be presented.

After the business of the evening
there will be open discussion followed
by refreshments. Any persons interested are cordially invited to be present at the next meeting when the Constitution of the Society is to be more
fully drawn up and formally settled.
There is some discussion of ‘Dear
Brutus’ being presented by the Guild
during the latter part of the term, but
nothing definite, has been decided. Ii
is also hoped that the society will
handle make-up, scenic painting and
handle make-up, scenic painting and
other stage techecalaties. The Players Guild wishes to take the place of
the defunct Dramatic Society only
fulfilling its mission more efficiently
and we ask Dal for its support!

rere jena

Pinafore Dropped

 

Due to lack of time and players all
plans for producing Gilbert and Sullivan’s “H, M.S. Pinafore” have been
dropped. At a special meeting of the
Executive of the Glee Club, this week
the question was brought up and
that wise and sagacious body decided
it would not be a profitable or wise
venture,

) quite

 

Players Club
Tues. Night
Murray
Homestead

   

    
   

 

No. 12

 

 

DALHOUSIE BEATS HALIGONIANS IN OVERTIME

Student Freedom Stirring Come-back Staged By

Urged by Minister

W.

Tigers Results

 

(By A. Neville, Executive to

Canadian University Press)

i Asser Today

Ont; Jan, 12

University

(CUP)—

students should

Kingston,
Canadian

: : History has been made in the realm
have complete freedom of

college For the
time since the Dalhousie Gazette
appeared just 69 long vears ago, the
Gazette despatch
which will be published in the college
press all Universities
and it was brought to Gazette readers
through the facilities of the Canadian
University Press.

The Canadian
pocket size edition of
and Associated

action in| ;
ol

first

‘ ; newspaperdom.
their approach to industrial problems

of the day and the student press should
be free at
problems is belief
Hon. Norman

Minister

 

will on those

held
McLeod Rogers,
Mr.

rectorial

to comment :
to-day carries a

the by the

Federal! |

of Canadian

   

of Labor. Rogers here

to deliver his address at
Queens University, in discussing the
the recent National Student |
Conference the Canadian

versity Press, stated that in his opinion,

work of

University Press, a
the

was formed

with Uni- | 3 ;
Canadian

Press, at

the Conference had served a useful}... ; ar
pane Winnipeg during the past Christmas
prupose and had fulfilled its most|
Ses holiday season when college newsreasonable objectives. It would con
| pe ipermen met to organize some wire
|system for the college papers through|out Canada. The Canadian University
Press represents the [fruit of their
labor.

John H. MacDonald, editor of the
McGill Daily was chosen as president
of the newly formed venture, a venture
which will result not only in wire
despatches each week but an exchange
of features interpreting student opinion
on the topics of the day from time to
time. Ian MacKeigan and Roland
Hurst, associate editors of the Dalhousie Gazette represertted Dalhousie
at the Canadian Uhiversity Press
conference, Jack Thurrott of the University of New Brunswick and editor

tribute greatly towards a better under
standing of- national problems.

Referring to the resolution passed
by the Conference supporting the
right of labour to bargain collectively
and freely, Mr. Rogers said that it was
lawful under the democratic
theory of Freedom of association
but it was a matter for the Provincial
Governments, some of which have
not seen fit to pass legislation granting
such freedom. Mr. Rogers mentioned
Nova Scotia as one of the leaders in
the field of trade union freedom.

The Minto Coal Strike in New
Brunswick is at present one of the
chief concerns of the Federal Labour

Department and a Board of Con-|of the Brunswickjan, the student
cilliation has been set up there. publication at that university was
Mr. Rogers would not comment on appointed regional. vice president: fox

the Maritime Universities,
The central administrative office
for the union will be at Queen's UniverThe Federal Department requires sity where Bill Neville, editor of the
the workers, who have struck, to Queen’s Journal will act as the focal

return to work before it will set up) a about which the organization
a Board of Conciliation, and in the |

case of the Minto Strike the employers |
offered some difficulty. A Board was
finally set up when the Federal Department exercised its right to appoint
a representative for the employers
to the three-man Board. Mr. Rogers
emphasized that the Federal Department’s position in labour disputes is
purely impartial and conciliatory, Unfortunately some Provincial Governments have taken sides labour
disputes and this has lessened the
effect conciliation. by the Federal
Department, he said.

the New Brunswick trouble but

plained some of its features.

ex
will revolve.

The new Press Service will provide
many new features which will broaden
the scope of the college papers. There
will be an open telegraph wire provided
on Wednesday nights for the release
of campus stories of national and
regional interest; a weekly news bulletin carrying news stories and feature
articles will be published in co-operation with the National Federation of
Canadian University Students, which
made a grant to the Canadian University Press to help it in its early stages.
The grant will be devoted partly to
the bulletin and partly
trative costs. Other features be
provided will be mat services for
pictorial improvement, exchange of
editorials, and a standard handbook
for reporters.

The following newspapers were represented at the conference: The Gazette, Dalhousie; The Argosy, Mount
Allison; The Brunswickan, New Brunswick; The Daily, McGill; The Journal,
Queen's; The Silhouette, McMaster;
The Varsity, Toronto; The Gazette,
Western Ontario; The Manitoban,
Manitoba; The Sheaf, Saskatchewan;
The Gateway, Alberta; The Quill,
Brandon; and the Ubyssey, British

Columbia.
ee

GUILD TO MEET
The Player's Guild will meet Tuesday night in the Murray Homestead.
Refreshments will be served at the
eaceedingly high figure of 10c. per
person.

in
of
Mr. Rogers went on to discuss the to adminismethods of approaching the problem

commenting on the new industrial
relations section at Queens.

to

“Recent events have shown that
insecurity of employment is a greater
problem today than it has been at
any previous period in our history”,
said Mr. Rogers. The primary responrelieving this insecurity
rests with those who direct capital
and labour. Industry must accept
a public responsibility towards the
problem of unemployment or it will
impair its usefullness in the democratic
state. ‘At the same time’”’ the speaker
continued, “The government must
formulate measures of social security
that will conserve and not destroy
individual initiative and responsibility.”

Mr. Rogers upheld the right of
collective bargaining and stated that
the foundations of industrial peace

sibility for

lay in the recognition of unions,

 

2
—

In Ice Vickers

Cc ol } eg e P ress | With only 61 seconds of play left,

before the end of the game, Dal Tigers
climaxed furious offensive drive,
by driving in the tying goal against
Halifax Haligonians, then went
|On to win the game in overtime by a

a

and

 

o-4 count. Played before’ a_ very
small audience, thanks to the disgraceful apathy in student interest

and support, the game failed to produce
the kind of hockey that both teams
are capable of displaying, despite the
noble efforts of the Dal Band.

At ‘the outset the Tigers showed
none of the fight they had in the game
New

med

in Glasgow.
the

of

Haligonians slamafter
three

three
min
At the

first
play,

i n score

minutes and
utes added another.
mark, the City team’s
speed Flynn, Stanhope and
Nelson sank their third marker. Halfway thought the period Mont and
Buckley went through on a” combination eflort with Mont sagging the
twine for Dal’s initial counter. - The
first. stanza ended with no further
scoring.

As the teams took the ice for the
middle canto, the Tigers seemed to
be a different crowd altogether, after
having listened to Coach Vince Ferguson’s remarks. One minute after the
opening whistle, MacGregor battled
his way into the corner and passed to
Mont standing in front of the net,
Mont returned the pass and MacGregor
patted the rubber into the net. The
Tigers swarmed all over the Haligonians
and did everything but score until
fourteen minutes later when Beer
and Conn teamed up and Beer made
the red light flicker. With the score
notted at 3-38, Stanhope raced through
the whole Dal team to flip the puck
past Koretsky and put his team one

later
eight minute

line of

 

up with one minute remaining.
Goinging into the last period, Dal
again put on the juggling act around
the MHaligonians citadel, but just
couldn’t get the puck past Burbidge.
With less than a minute to go and
defeat almost a certainty, the Tigers
finally clicked when Conn picked up
Beer’s pass at the edge of the crease
and flipped the tying goal into the

upper corner of the net.
After seven minutes of overtime,
Mont, whose poke check swept. the

ice better than the floods sweep the
U. S., raced down center ice and
smoked a shot right through Burbidge
the all important goal. There
no more and the Dal
boys skated off win to their
credit.

As a result of their win the Tigers
are now in first place in the N- S.
Hockey League, tied with New Glas
for
was scoring

with a

gow (all Halifax games count four
points).
Pooh DeWolfe, starry frontliner

expects to be back in the game when
the Dal squad stacks up against the
Truro Bearcats in Truro, Monday
night, and should do much to steady
the team and increase the scoring

punch.
-———- 0

MASS MEETING

Dalhousie delegates who attended
the National Conference of Canadian
University Students will. make their
report to the student body Thursday ata mass meeting in Room 8 of
the Arts Building,

 
at —

   

    

 

 

Founded 1869. ‘The Oldest College Paper in America”.

 

 

 

 

    
 

GAZETTE STAFF.
Editors-in-Chief.
A. B. MACKENZIE. E. F. MERCHANT.
B-3824. B-0254.
Associates.

Roland Hurst.
Peggy Merkel.

Walter Murphy.

T. Babbitt Parlee, B. A.
John F. Finlay, B. A.

Leonard Kitz.

 

| F Byron Hatfield Lloyd Dalton) Barbara Murray
er ; News Editor. Sports Editor.
_-—« RICHARD MURPHY. JOHN DICKEY, B. A.
ae B-2427. B-5545.

. Asst. News Editor Business Manager. Proof Editor

re -MARJORIE McLEAN. R. L. ARMSTRONG, B. A. MALCOLM MacLEOD.
7 B-5700.

‘= e i
oe, <TC
=: THE NATIONAL CONFERENCE OF CANADIAN

“4 UNIVERSITY STUDENTS.
ant Although assailed all last fall by masses of “propaganda”
PF about the Conference recently held at Winnipeg, many of us
ae doubted whether such a Conference would be worthwhile—whether

it could produce results sufficiently compensatory for the time
and money spent. By the end of last term, however, our doubts
, were largely dispelled by the thought that the Conference, if it did
fs %. nothing else, had at least induced here preparatory work enrolling

one hundred and twenty in discussion groups, interesting Many of
| these for the first time in political, economic and social problems,
“Any lingering doubts vanished when we heard the glowing
| . reports of the Dalhousie delegates. (What happened at the Con
ference?) Over three hundred students from twenty-five different

—t
.

colleges met, coming from St. F, X. in the east to Victoria College
Pe ‘n the west. In discussions running into the wee small hours every
* night, our delegates tell us, almost every problem assailing the

mind of man was in some manner touched. Reports on varied
subjects were drawn up and plans made to carry on work on each
campus and for future conferences.
_r “This is not the place, even if we were able to do so, to tell what
Ne: happened at the Conference. What is more important now ts what
a is going to happen at Dalhousie. Now that the tumult and the
eo | shouting has died is the new interest in the wider problems of life
| — displayed last fall going to die also? It is to be hoped and expected
7 that the delegates who went to Winnipeg will try to pass on to the
various discussion groups the inspiration that they gained there.
But it is also up to all of us, if we are ‘to do right by ourselves and
gain most from this thing called a “college education,” to devote
l ever greater and more thorough study to the world in which we

aS

 

-__ live in all its social aspects.
Bic | ALUMNI REUNION
Line na ‘ All students must have noticed at some time or other the pub
the coming Alumni Reunion by The Gazette and other
newspapers. This will be the most important occurrence at Dal-_—_‘housie in recent years and is undoubtedly one of the outstanding
events in the History of this University. Graduates who left this|
college long years ago will mingle with those who have just closed

the door behind them and all will fraternize in a friendly manner
and make Dalhousie’s Centenary of continuous teaching a week

worth remembering. ;
The University authorities and the Committee appointed to

Me handle affairs have worked tirelessly and have spared no detail

it to ensure a successful gathering. We bring this matter to the at
Pr tention of the student body in the hope that you will work indivi
dually and do all in your power to aid the Committee in charge.

Each one of you can do a great deal in the way of arousing interest

jn the reunion. Those who come from Maritime centres where

Dalhousie Clubs have been organized have a strong foundation,

already well-established, on which to build a tower of good-will.

Others who come from smaller towns can do much by dispensing

words to show the importance of the gathering and requesting all

Old Dalhousians to do their utmost to attend. The more people

present will obviously make the reunion all the more successful

and for this reason all graduates are urged to make a special point

of itand come. Older persons are not alone welcome for we solicit

the attendance of as many present students as are able conveniently

to make their way to Studley Campus, the meeting place of the

Old and the New.

~~ lieity given

 

A WORTHY EFFORT

a An item concerning music in last week’s Gazeiie was noted by
the Editors with great satisfaction. It contained an announceBk ment by the Choral Society to the effect that they wished to pre| sent to the music loving students of this University that wellknown operetta by Gilbert and Sullivan, H. M.S. Pinafore. The
| officers of the Society issued a call to those who might be interested,
and who possessed the requisite amount of talent, to attend a

meeting and aid in casting this ambitious attempt.
At last, we feel, Dalhousians are endeavouring to stage a prei sentation that is worthy of any Dramatic or Glee Society. While
iF we appreciate all the difficulties that stand in their way in the matee. ters of castumes, settings and proper costing, nevertheless, we think
that this scheme should be followed to the end and at least try to
present Dalhousie with high class entertainment on Munro Day.
Mas 5 According to the article, financial support has been assured
ie from the Alumni and Alumnae of this University. This does away
R with one of the major problems in the production of any show and
. will considerably lesson the load taken on by the Glee Club, who,

be we suppose, will lend their name to the backing of the Operetta.
, In addition to this, since the University authorities lent the
F use of the Gymnasium to the Community Concert Series we have

_——*ihad a very high grade of musical entertainment. Such popular and
well-known artists as Leona Flood and Percy Grainger enhance
ee the brand of music around the college and raise our standards to a
: much loftier plane. This series will tone the aesthetic senses of
all students and should prove of inestimable value to the complete
education of all hearers.
. Everyone, we feel sure, is greatly pleased at the chance of
= attending concerts by these distinguished artists and particularly
*: of knowing that at last there is a group at Dalhousie which is ambitious enough to attempt the presentation of such popular entertainment.

ee

and Fact

Man and Pipe

Probably the most beloved inanimate
object of mankind is a pipe. A warm
bowl, a lazy spiral of smoke rising

gently upwards quiets the wildest
breast. In contemplative mood a
long-drawn vapour is admitted to

the grateful ether.

mask to the
the mundane world.
a friend, mentor,
mate.

guide, and

Woman and Cigarette
Let foolish, light headed

for such a fixture of delight.
and their sisters through the
have discarded their fluttering coquettish fans, and divers bric-a-brac to
bear them through moments of mental
stress. The cigarette, their latest,
an ugly object at best, does make
them foul-smelling and nervous, causing loss of charm of which but few
have excess to spare.

Captain Kidd

Everybody knows the pirate Kidd
was originally sent to capture buccaneers. Yet few realize that the
doughty captain was a victim of
circumstances which caused him to
turn to the life of a free booter.

Kidd was backed by men high in
the political life of England. In the
seventeenth century, as in all time,
discredit to such a venture was discredit to the opposing party. Before
leaving England, a third of Kidd's
crew were pressed into His Majesty’s
Navy. As a result he forced
to make up his crew with New Englanders, who as a class frowned little
on the life of smuggling. Later typhoid struck the crew, carrying off a large
number. Added to the fact that
Kidd's arrangement was that the
expense of the expedition fell on his
shoulders if no prizes were taken we can
conclude that Kidd at least could be
charged with malice aforethought.

(Continued on Page 4)

Hill Vienettes

Starting the new year right, all the
patients in the sick bay were discharged

Was

‘last week. Still a little shaky, the

boys were glad, however, to be back
on their feet. It is reported that
after the nurses came, all the patients
were restless at night. No one knows

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Fantasy - - Fancy

In state of perplexity, the breath is held stationary
so that the heavy clouds caressing
the face places a welcome temporary
insoluable realities of
A pipe is truly
help
   
 
    

woman
through the ages constantly search
They

ages

Obiter

Not to be too unconventional, I
should herewith welcome the new
year and wish all my dear -readers
a most pleasant one. Apart from the
annoyance of writing a seven and
superimposing an eight for the next
month, and the added convenience
of computing the passage of time,
I cannot see what difference a new
year makes. Except of course that
at Dal, unlike other colleges, it means
that examinations have been met and
conquered. (I hope). And _ further,
I might add, many people (I am told)
make this time of year an occasion
for getting beautifully lit. But I
don’t know much about that, and
anyway, college students never get
intoxicated. Remember too, years and
years ago, when they used to make
resolutions? Quaint ideas they had
in those days, but there may have
been something to it. For example
when you are in a slightly heated
mood, looking for something to break,
what could be more suitable than a
new year resolution.

 

Shattering Reality

Somewhere at the bottom of a
Chinese river lie the shattered remains
of the U.S. Panay, itself mute evidence
of the shattered prestige of the great
United States; in Shanghai, the shattered remains of a great metropolis;
or in war-torn Spain, the shattered
remains of various Loyalist strongholds;
the whole business represent the
shattered remains of steps in the
stairway to world peace. Here at
Dalhousie, if you know where to look,
lie the shattered remains of a preChristmas determination not to let
the class work get so far ahead. All
of which raises the question as to
where these ideals come from and
where they go. I suspect the cause
of the Dal ideal, and further discussion
is hardly necessary. As to where it
went, I can tell that too. I saw it at
the Capitol Theatre the other day.
It was seen at the Boilermaker’s
Ball, and by the end of the month
it will probably stroll into the Tech
affair. And further, at all these
functions it was unaccompanied and
terribly neglected. It is too bad no
one will give it a decent burial.

 

“Goodness me, why what was
that?’’

Silent be, it was a suggestion that
the Glee Club or something put on
a performance of H. M. S. Pinafore
on Munro Day. It sounds almost
teo good to be true; but in case it is
true, my best wishes for its success

why, although Bob Wright made | are with it all the way. If Mount

several nightly visits and had
occasional consultation with the night
nurse.

We regret to have to report that
Dave MacIntosh, erstwhile physician
of the residence is homself confined
in the Grace =~ Maternity Hospital,
where he was interning during the

Christmas rush. Dave has had an

attack of the same type of- flu which|

sent the boys to bed here.

Usually quite calm and cool, Jimmie
Cross saw red the other day. A wellknown theological student, he visited
a fortune teller in the city who told
himhe,...and....toomuch. (Censored). Jimmie denied it strongly.
We can think of much worst things
Jimmie, so don’t worry. Besides, fortune-tellers aren’t always right.
Further at the trial documents conclusively establishing his innocence as
regard some of the items of the indictment were withheld from him.

an Allison

 

can send this across the
nation over the C. B. C., surely Dal
can put on something respectable.

I wish I could sing myself. (Yes,
[ know I can’t). Nothing Makes
a college like a good Glee Club. Some

institutions have their football teams,
without which they would go bankrupt. Others have basketball teams.
So far Dal has only a first rate academic
department, which doesn’t really count
in these days of values.
Even if this new effort doesn’t bring
a record registration next year is
will be a great addition to this year’
programme, because Gilbert and Sulli
van certainly had something here.
Se ee

FARMYARD FUN.

changing

“What the dickens are you doing
down there in the cellar?’”’ demanded
the rooster.

“If it’s any of your business,”’ replied the hen frigidly, “I'm laying in a
supply of coal.”

—‘‘The Manitoban,”

Colwell Brothers January Sale

IS NOW IN

PROGRESS

Every suit and overcoat in stock has been marked
down for this sale.

A special selling of Tuxedos and Full Dress ‘‘Tails’’

is included.

This is an opportunity for a wise buyer to purchase
men’s clothing and furnishings at a considerable

saving.

COLWELL BROTHERS

LIMITED
453-457 BARRINGTON STREET

 

 

   

January, 14th, 1938

    

    
 
 
      
   
  

 

 

“1 tell you, Robbins, | left them right here on this table.”
‘It isn’t safe, sir, to leave Sweet Caps around even in this club!”

SWEET CAPORAL CIGARETTES

“The purest form in which tobacco can be smoked.”

THE
BEAUTY SPOT

~ 1973 QUINPOOL ROAD

B-9651 MISS MacNEIL

 

When You Need
DRUGS

You get better

at

118 GRANVILLE ST.

THREE SERVICES

To cover the laundry
needs of college students

FIRST SERVICE

A special list price for
the student who wishes
to send less than a dozen
articles.

SECOND SERVICE

For those who have
a dozen or more pieces
to be laundered.

The Price — 60c. per
dozen.

THIRD SERVICE

The lowest fully finished price in the city
for the student with a
large bundle.

8c a pound

Min. 12 lbs.—95c.

The Halifax
Steam Laundry

Phone L-2309.

MEDICINES

or any other Drug Store Merchandise

KINLEY’S DRUG STORES

BEFORE BUYING

LUGGAGE or LEATHER GOODS
OF ANY KIND SEE

AELLY'S LTD.

Your Christmas Cheque

Money slips through one’s
fingers so easily, may we suggest
investing that money gift in
something tangible.

BIRK’S have many useful
gifts.

Henry Birks & Sons

Limited
Diamond Merchants
Halifax

    
    
   

PRESCRIPTIONS

SERVICE and VALUE

  
 
 

 

 

  
  
    

 

 

DRY CLEANING

PRESSING
REPAIRING

DYEING

 

SPECIAL LOW RATES
for Students

 

Suits - Coats - Dresses

Dry Cleaned 65
(Standard Service) Cc

Suits Sponged and

45c

Telephone L-2323

Pressed

or see our representative
at your Frat House or
College Residence

 

COUSINS Ltd.

Master Cleaners and Dyers

 
ws

Ll

rh 2 te
es

 

~ >”

 

nb
oo
Ae

: . Gee

Pa eS eee
F oD = Pd
5 J
r
th

wrote Shakespeare’s plays.

_ orchestra has yet reached the great

We often hear the remark from our

more sedate elders that they can’t under
stand why the younger people insist

so much on ‘“‘swing music’’ rather than
some “nice jazz” as played by Wayne
King et al. Immediately we ask ourselves “What is swing music?’ and
what is ‘‘nice jazz.”

Today we hear so much about ‘‘swing
music’’ that the term, in some minds,
has come to indicate an entirely new
type of jazz originating with Benny
Goodman. :

The term ‘“‘swing” is new but the

thing that it stands for was alive and
going before we college-students had
made our habitat in swaddling clothes.
For a definition of “swing’’ we hear
various answers, two of which are most
repeated, (1) ‘‘variations on a theme”
and (2) improvisation. Essentially
the two indicate the same thing but
both are outlandish complications of a
simple fact. Swing music is not, peculiarly, music which makes us swing and
by that we mean wave our hands, tap
our feet, or any of the strange gyrations a swing fan goes through when he
listens to his favourite.
_ Of “nice jazz” there is little to be
said. Judging by the term, that it indicates the various hemphroditic
attempts of such worthy gentleman
as Paul Whiteman and Guy Lombardo
(to use them as examples) there is nothing. Those gentlemen interested in
beguiling the public, have played for
years what they call jazz but which is
as close to jazz as any Beethoven Sata,
Bach Fugue or Chopin Nocturne.
Swing and jazz are synonomous, the
only difference being in that the word
jazz is more correct. Benny Goodman
is really a jazz musician, not a swing
musician. Swing to the popular mind
is appealing, but to the|jazz devotee it
is a non-existing word except when used
as a verb.

On the origin of jazz there has been
much said. Most of it falsely said.
We don’t say a word, except that it
originated in the South of the United
States with the Original Dixieland
Band, although you still hear of bands

_ that were playing jazz before the above.

Of those bands no condemnation is too
bad. To detract from the glory of
-LaRocea and Co. is to say that Bacon
No jazz

height attained by the Dixieland Band.

- Of all jazz musicians perhaps the

greatest are negroes. There are a
few whites who stand high above all
but on the average the negro race produces the best. The name of Bessie
Smith stands at the top of her race.
Bessie it was who was called by Richard Gilbert as the greatest interpreter
of “that deeply nostalgic and irresistibly moving expression which is the exexclusive appanage of the American
Negro—the Blues.’ Just last month
Columbia relisted six of the best records that the ““Empress of Blues”’ ever
made. It was a noble tribute, for
Bessie Smith died in Memphis in September. Bessie Smith is a perfect example of a jazz musician. Born in the
South it was there she learned her music
In the early ’20’s she went to Chicago
and then at Kelly’s Slide and the
Friar’s Inn she taught much to those
three who were later to popularize
what became known as the Chicago
style—Bix Beidebecker, Frank Trumbaur and Benny Goodman on the trumpet, saxaphone and clarinet respectively.
It is interesting to note that of the
one hundred and fifty discs that
Bessie recorded only three were Tin
Pan Alley, the rest of course being the
real jazz.

An article on jazz without the mention of Bix Beidebecker’s name is impossible. Bix, unfortunately, died
about five years ago but previous to
that he made recordings that are now
regarded as classics. For a while he
played with Whiteman but couldn't
stand the latter’s type of music and left.
He recorded some with Whiteman but
his best records are those of all-star
ensembles with himself as the great
star. His trumpet ‘‘breaks’’, for sheer
beauty of tone, colour and rhythm—
are priceless.

With Beiderbecker when he recorded
were two likely young fellows who
have done more to revive jazz from

its great slump than anybody else,

viz., Benny Goodman and Tommy
Dorsey. The former’s mastery of
the clarinet is amazing in that it has
‘been recognized by the popular mind
as well as the congoscenti. Of the
latter, popularity has gone to his
head. He is a fine trombonist, in

 

fact one of the best trombone player
of his day. But when he makes
such screwy recordings as the ‘Song
of India” and the ‘Beautiful Blue
Danube” Beiderbecke and Smith must
turn over in their graves. There
is fo jazz in those two minor classics,
and it can’t be put in them.

Jazz’ downfall may be dated for
the day when Paul Whiteman introduced it to Carnegie Hall. For some
reason or other he believed he had to
“devulgarize’ it. What he did was
to substitute scores for improvising.
That took out of jazz what may be
called its essence and left merely a
form of music which was poor. The
Lombardos took up where he left off
and made a sickly syrupy thing out
of what was, we believe, a new art.
The complaint about jazz seems to
be that it is too emotional—it increases
the passions. But after all what is
all art but emotion. There is no
intelligence to dramatic painting.
“Hamlet” or “Lear” are great not
because their minds are great, but
because their emotions are great.
A Leonardo’s works or even a Cezanne’s works do not stir our emotions
because they are highly intelligent;
rather they tend to make us feel
small beside such a tremendous emotion
that has been transmitted to canvas.

What is the position of jazz today
None too secure is the answer. Its
amazing popularity under the guise
of swing has its bad qualities as well
as its good ones. The Dorseys and
Goodmans, and above all the Ellingtons will always stand out, but what
of the others. Second-rate jazz as
exemplified by Louis Prima will do
more harm than will the disgusting
attempts of a Rudy Vallee. Foul
trumpet playing by a Henry Busse
will not help educate the public to the
great work of a “Cootie’ Williams.
What jazz needs most today is a
public which can tell the bad form from
the good, which can tell a Russ Morgan from a Tom Dorsey, which can
tell a Joe Reich from a Joe Venuti.
Then perhaps the spirits of Bessie
and Bix will rest in peace.

———o.

Letter to Editor

Dear Sir:

Lately, thanks to the various commissions on the campus, I have heard
several men with different aims in
life say how necessary a university
was to the community and how great
was the responsibility which rests
on any university graduate for they
should be the leaders in any social
or economic reforms.

The chief wrong in Nova Scotia,
in the Maritimes, or even in Canada
is the lassitude of the people. Everybody knows that the best teachers
available are not being employed in
the city schools. Everybody knows
that something must be done, and
quickly, to check the large number
of imbecile children who are being
born in this province. People realize
that this province needs libraries
and art galleries. In fact they realize
that there are few things which Nova
Scotia does not need. Yet what
are they doing about it? Precisely
nothing. And why? Because everybody is too damn lazy to lift a finger.
They are leaving it to somebody else
to start the reforms. If somebody
else did start these reforms they
would not hinder him, but neither
would they actively help him.

Does the university show any signs
of overcoming this sloth? We are
always hearing about a lack of college
spirit. This lack is not because we
are not fond of Dalhousie, but because
we are like our elders and are bonelazy. We neither study hard, nor
play games hard, nor dance hard.
No great interest is taken in any of
the events on the campus. Does
this augure well for the future of Nova
Scotia and Canada? It does not.
If we go on the way we are going
none of the much needed reforms will
ever be accomplished. And _ don’t
fool yourselves; if you are not interested
in working for your college, you will
not be interested in working for your
country.

 

“The Laziest Person on the Campus”.
———
Lady: ‘‘Why are you so excited
little boy? Can't you stand still?”,
Little Boy: “Lady, is that any
question to ask a gentleman?”
—The Maniioban

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

T. Y. M.

The last hectic weeks of the preChristmas term left our thoughts in
such a chaotic state that we still find
difficulty in collecting them. Is the
vacation really over? Strange that
the best part of that vacation seems to
have been the return to work.

With each succeeding vacation we
find ourselves returning to an improvised Dalhousie. Our most recent gain
is the services of Dr. Saunders, late
of Edinburgh, as Assistant Professor

of Anatomy. It is incredible that
anyone can have made so fine an
impression on the student body in
so short a time. T. Y. M. extends

him the sincere welcome of the student
body.

Speaking of welcomes we hear that
the most welcome sight of the week
was that of a certain bed at the V. G.
by Roy Gold. His hectic convention
trip turned out to be anything but
conventional. It began with his being
pulled out of bed and thrown into his
clothes ten minutes before train time
on the day he left and ended with
his being thrown into bed and _ his
clothes taken off on the day he returned.

The fraternities are outdoing each
other in their endeavour to make
up for lost time. Phi Rho’s party on
Tuesday night will start the whirl.

Following this will be the formal
induction at Phi Chi. This promises
to be one of the largest inductions of,
recent years for eighteen new fraters
will be inducted, plus such honorary
members as Doctors Graham, O’Brien
Gosse and Morton.

Thirdly, Phi Delta Epsilon
open the terms social season with a
party on Saturday night, Oh, well,
next week’s time enough to start

will

studying.
Emmerson was right! Life has its
compensations. Though Monk Smith

is temporarily out of service, convalescing from a recent tonsilectomy,
he shows his greatest improvement
after those frequent and regular visits
from a certain blond alumna.

We wonder how John Quinlan will
explain that pre Christmas visit to
Queen Street and that injured toe to
Patricia. If you need any help call on
Pix, M.

Speaking of embarrassing moments,
there is the story of the Dal Medico
who worked as a waiter during the
Christmas holiday. His practice was
to take a daily shower after which he
would return to his room with his
used sox in a pocket. One evening

handkerchief and out came a sock.

We hear that Henry Reardon had| *™ oe
| Cities, watched a swinging pistol ride

not a Kerr in the world until the

vacation ended. The Christmas doll |

won't take but we will.

We used to think that our Dartmouth seamen were bad, but Wilfred
Callaghan goes them one better. Bedford can be very far when its cold
and the busses aren’t running.

It does one’s heart good to see the
contingent of Meds at the Wolverine
these Saturday evenings. It makes
us think of the old days.
repeats itself but T. Y. M. doesn’t

College Notes

AND SO THEY TALK

 

In the first issue of ‘The Manitoban”’ since the Conference at Winnipeg, there is an amusing column of
“human interest’”’ stories—stories of
how things happened and why, in the
good old Mark Hellinger fashion.
They tell this one of Anne Hirsch:

‘Ann Hirsch hails from Dalhousie
University. It was her hapless lot to
strike up an acquaintance with a male
member from the University of Manitoba by tagging him in a ladies’ dance
during a social hour. The conversation turned to politics. They both
held opposite views. The conversation changed to economics; they differed on the merits of Marx. The conversation switched desperately to the
weather, but he liked it cold and she
hot. They decided to stop talking.
After a couple of minutes of silent
dancing, Miss Hirsch looked up at her
partner and said, ‘““Thank God we agree
upon the same step.”

————
Newspaper Item

‘Mrs. Q. McGilicuddy was granted
a divorce today on the grounds that
her husband had spoken to her only
three times since their marriage. Mrs.

McGilicuddy was awarded the custody
of their three children,”
—The Manitoban

History |

while serving supper he reached for a | Wastes of

 

 

 

Book Review

“And So—Victoria” by Vaughan
Wilkins. 576 pages. Jonathan Cape,
London. $2.50.

“And So—Victoria” is a romantic

story of how a_ boy finds himseif,
set against a background of political
intrigue, in the twenty years preceding
Victoria’s reign. It is a long, rambling
tale, bristling with complexities and
innuendos, most of them too subtle to
be understood by your unsophisticated
reviewer. Its English, however, is
rather beautiful in spots, and where it
is not beautiful, it is vivid.

Christopher Harnish is the hero.
The facts of Christopher's parentage
provide an indication of the general
intricacy of the plot. Christopher’s
mother, a daughter of the King of
England, secretly contracted a marriage with one of the Prince Regent's
illegitimate sons, being unaware of the
relationship at the time. When the
old King was informed, the knowledge
drove him crazy, which seems, in an
odd way, to have been the carefully
engineered idea behind the marriage.
A certain Madame de Boucher had
pledged herself to revenge the death of
her husband, who had been sent back
to France during the Revolution by
three of the princes of the Royal Family, in order that they might not have
to repay the money they had borrowed
from him a few years before. Since it
happened that her sister, a mistress
of the Prince Regent, bore a stillborn child to the prince at the same
time that Madame de Boucher bore a
slightly more animated child, a substitution was arranged, all unbeknown
to the Prince Regent. This boy, then,
who was not the son of the Prince Regent, became the father of Christopher
Harnish. Hence the marriage had not
been incestuous after all, and need not
have driven the King insane. The
trouble comes when you ‘try to remember who knew about the non-incestuous character of the marriage, and
who did not.

The first years of Christopher’s life
were spent in the home of his aunts.
These were the only completely happy
years he was to know, until long afterwards, when he had completely resolyed
all his mental conflicts. - His temporary
happiness came to an abrupt end, when
his father took him away. From then
on, his life became a miserable hodgepodge, during which he tried to forget
his wretched heritage. He travelled
across Europe, tossed across the uneasy
the Atlantic, stood in the
spike-guarded dock, traversed the wide
Texan plains in search of the Seven

upwards to a burst of flame, waited
for death in a dark house and on the
duelling field—so that toward this
night-fall he might find a gateway opening in the mist.”’ And he finds his
long-sought gateway in a kindred soul,

Deborah, who has need of forgetting

much, too.

There are perhaps too many characters in ‘And So—Victoria,”’ just
as there are too many incidents, which
make for a fluent irrelevancy. On the
other hand, if any of the characters
and incidents are irrelevant to the
plot, most of them are interesting in
themselves, which does excuse Wilkins’
garrulity to some extent. At that,
Wilkins probably paints a truer picture than most authors, who, might
have made the character of Christopher unreal by attributing to him a too
unnatural singleness of purpose.

“And So—Victoria’”’ is interesting
for its story of Christopher. It is more
interesting for the historical portrait
it paints of the years preceding Victoria’s reign. It seems incredible that
the British Royal Family which in our
time has always been a pillar of eminent respectability should have in its
closets such disreputable skeletons,
only a hundred years old. Whether
or not, the historical details of the book
are accurate or not, I don’t know. Certainly they do not correspond to the
rather more genteel history that we
learned in school, which is one argument in their favour. Further, I don’t
doubt that there were attempts on the
part of Victoria’s relatives to part her
from her lawful right to the throne in
good old fairy-tale fashion. But it
does not matter, anyway. If Vaughan
Wilkins does not confine himself to
proven facts, it cannot be said that he
does not interpret correctly the spirit
of those tempestuous times. And it is
this, I think, that will make you remember “And So—Victoria,’”’ more
than the story itself will.

C. W. M,

LS LY ens senses

   

  

Neilson’s

THE BEST CHOCOLATE

C.377

  
  
   
 

CASINO

3 Days Starting Saturday
January 15th.

 

DRUGS

    
 

CHOCOLATES

 

ANNABELLA
Star of
‘Wings of the Morning”

in

“DINNER
AT THE RITZ”

with

PAUL LUCAS

 

FOUNTAIN

 

 

 

   

MacLeod, Balcom

Limited

  
   
 

 

 

 

FAR AWAY FRIENDS
ARE NEAR

Talk with them more often—by
telephone. The more you do, the
more you will realize how much it

means to them and to you.

Try it any night after 7.00 or any

time Sunday, when rates are lowest.

Maritime Telegraph & Telephone

Company, Limited

 

 

 

 

 

 
  
   

 

| HOCKEY

ne ts | Mon, Jan. 17
e- _ Dal at Truro ©

oe BASKETBALL "

cae Jan: 20th
| nt ae vs. Dal.
erme e—
Dal. vs. N. S. Tech.
. at Studley. 5 ns

  

pee

     
 
  
  
   
  
  
  

 

| Re ged Basketball Featured
In Victory Over Garrison

|Drop First Game
to New Glasgow

 

Oi akaying promising _pre- -season
on Coach Charlie Steers’ well-|
balanced cutfit of Cub hoopsters
overcame the energetic Engineers of
the Garrison in a bruising battle at
the Y gym last Saturday night by a
score of 45-85. The contest which
_- was the opening game of the City

Intermediate League, was featured
. by fast passing plays and clever ball
_ control. The Campus combination
gave. a_ creditable showing and the
cS ~ fine team work which they displayed |.
| Bie tee _ should help them to win many games
a jn the future.

Opening their 1938 season away from
home the Dalhousie Tigers went down
to a hard-fought 8-4 defeat at New Glasgow last Friday night. It was an uphill battle for the Tigers almost from
the time they left Halifax but they
never stopped trying and were not
licked till the final whistle. De-oaded
in the bus they started their journey and
before reaching Enfield the boys shifted
to the C. N. R‘ and got to their destination at 10 o’clock to find a patient
crowd that had been waiting over two
hours.

The game started with a burst of
speed as both teams seemed anxious

    
     
     
     
     
    

    
     
      

reer
ean

   

From the opening Griicle the Cubs
‘ were. treated to a different kind of
basketball than they were used to
during practice. The game was rough
eh throughout and the Dal coach was
c _ forced to substitute football talent
ees to offset the bruising attacks of the
> OR. C. E. boys. “Lucky” Lipton and
“Buck” Baycroft were able to use
their rugby ability to great advantage.
y mi _ “Mighty Atom't Colwell, the “India”
_ rubber man”, was bounced on the
hardwood several times but always
ba noel to bounce back into play

at the intervention of Referee Jim

| Sted whistle.
I: Fa!

Th c first half ¢ of & game was ver | period ended New Glasgow regained

sen. | the lead with two pretty goals by Lawhe lor and MacDonald. tats
<= of |. The second period was more or tees a
ake repitition. of. the first with New Glas- |.
om | gow again: tallying” three times and
_» | Dalhousie once but the play was a little
‘more rugged with sticks being carried a bit too high. The Seven Ups
got their three goals in this period before the Tigers scored. In the last
minute with the score 6-1 Mullane
finally pushed one in on a passing play
from Mont and Buckley.
In the final period with the clock
approaching midnight Dal made a

      
       
    

    

night before the gong sounded to end
a rugged game that had been loaded
with action and excitement.

New Glasgow got away to a good
start and tallied three times in the first
period while Dal’s only clicked once.
It was at the ten minute mark that
Cox opened the scoring by batting
home a rebound but less than a minute
later Don MacGregor evened it up
on a pass from Collins. Before the

 
        
    
   

    
   
    
 

         
  

   
    
  
   
   
  
 
 
   
   

  

ote e heres noticed
cially for iis e ility| to match
es Engineer's gridiron tactics and
bos brilliant interceptions of the enemy’s
ies Despite the roughness of the
me 3 game, the Cubs played good basket‘< bal and we shall watch with interest

     
 
   

     
    
 
  

    

     
   
   
       
       
   
 

rogress in the Intermediate : ;
“their : . furious last assault which netted them
- Leagu a ele a _ .|two markers but their opponents kept
The Dalhousie line-up: D. Lyall] pace with two on their own account.

        
 

F Bes 20, A. Hart 7, M. Lipton, J. Hutton
18, T. Bayeroft, A. MacKenzie, D.
deve wamerca 4,K. Colwell 1. Total 45.

Dunn scored both the New Glasgow
goals and McGregor and Conn accounted for the Tigers’ tallies to make
the final count 8-4.

The goalies were the real stars of the
game both turning in sparkling exhibitions, but it was interesting to the
crowd and pleasing hockey throughout.

 
       
 

  
   
    

—>——_— Q—_ —
‘Interfaculty

         

u
ie: Se
ee or
e i

at. fy EDS week the Interfaculty Basketree _ ball loop got under way with four
games scheduled. On Tuesday in the
oe first game A, & §. took the measure

~ of Dentistry by a score of 25-22.
In the second game the Frosh outplayed the Eng? to emerge victorious.
: On Thursday the men of Dentistry
must have been unwilling to meet
the Lawyers for they did not show

up at the same time.
The Meds were scheduled to meet

_ Arts and Science in the second game,
but they didn’t appear either. The

     
 

 
 

SUMMARY.

  

    
       
     

First Period(
Scofes(
1. N. G., Cox, (C. McNeil) 10.52
2. Dal., Beer (MacGregor) 11.28.
3. N. G., Lawlor (unassisted) 12.41.
4, N. G,, McDonald (Campbell,
Dickson) 16,37.
Penalties: Mullane; 2 minutes, holding; Dickson, 2 min., trip.
Second Period(
Scores(

  
     
      
         
   
      

       
   
   
   
   
  
   
   
  
    
 
 
  
  
   
 
  
   
    
      
 
  
 
 

Lawyers and the Studley men thus}5. N. G., K. McDonald (Dickson)
each get a victory by default. The] 14.37.
a1). A. A. C. in general and Interfaculty]6. N. G., —... McDonald (Dickson)
Manager Ed Cragg in particular| 165.46. ;
deplore the lack of interest evidenced|7. N. G., McNeil (Cox, Campbell)
by these defaults and hope that in| 16.25.
future teams will be on hand be the|8. Dal., Mullane (Mont, Buckley)
a oe ~ hour games are scheduled. has| 19.37.
Mey! =; been found necessary to soa Penalties: Lawlor, 2 min., illegal
& the schedule published in last week's | trip; Conn, trip; Lawlor, trip.
deo pouette: ‘The new schedule appears | Third Period (
ae yen this page. Scores(
pe: = 2 1 iy ; ; 9. N. G., Dunn (unassisted) 2.28.
Des Maes | Cat = 10. Dal., McGregor, 314.
oar COULD HAVE HAPPENED ri, N, G., Dunn (Dickson, K. Mchit ce HERE onald) 1.02.
ff _ 12. Dal., Conn (Buckley) 1.52.

a a .
i. ca i aes Classman: “I suppose you} N° penalties.

ft come from one of those towns where
ir Pec - they pull i in the pavement every night.’’
a yk! ahoome ‘What pavement~"

| "The Gateway.”

The line-ups:

New Glasgow: Goal, S. McDonald.
Defence, Bun McDonald, Pop Lawlor,
Bobbie Potts. Forwards, Dunn, Dick
  

 

to make up for lost time but it was mid- |.

DALHOUSI E

   

 

Basketball

SENIOR

Making their first appearance of
the season the Dalhousie Tigers dropped an exhibition tilt to the Dal
Grads by a score of 44-23 at the Gym
last night. The three games scheduled
were viewed by a disappointing crowd,
but the matches lacked nothing in
interest.

The senior game featured fast play

and clever passing attacks which
were spoiled by weak work under
the basket. Most of the scoring

resulted from accurate long shooting
and their superiority in this department earned the Grads their victory.

For the first few minutes the teams
fought on even terms scoring basket
for basket, but soon the Graduate
Squad began to make openings in the
Tiger defence, and sank shot after
shot to open out a 19 point lead before
the end of the half. As the second
half got under way the Bengals tightened up and held the Grads to a halfdozen baskets but were themselves
unable to cut down the lead. The
Grads kept pretty good control of the
play and were never in danger.

The Tigers suffered from inaccurate
shooting and they appeared a_ bit
strange to their new “‘five man defence
system’ but showed some improvement in the second half. The Grads
used the familiar man to man system
and kept a close check on the undergraduate crew. This gave them an
advantage they will not enjoy when
the Tigers get more practice in the
ACB 'C. of their new strategy.

INTERMEDIATE

The Dal Cubs bowed in defeat to
the Y. at the Gym last night, by a
score of 20-27. In their second league
appearance of the season the Cubs
fought hard but were overpowered
by their opponents who earned their
victory with accurate shooting and
alert defensive work.

The Cubs got the jump at the
opening whistle and shot themselves
into a 6-0 lead in the first few minute
but the Y team took charge of proceedings from then on and had earned
themselves an 8 point lead at the end
of the half,

After the interval the Y continued
to lengthen their lead for the first
few minutes with their plays clicking
regularly but soon the Cubs began
to get back into the game and commenced a rally which developed into
a man-sized comeback, carrying them
right on to their opponent’s heels
in the last few minutes. The whistle
found the Cubs controlling the play
and threatening to wipe out the
remaining seven point deficit.

Dalhousie—Colwell 6, Cameron 2,
Lyall 6, Hutton 2, MacKenzie 4,
Baycroft, Hart, Mercer.

Y. M. C. A.—Johnson 6, Creighton
4, Vair 5, Doubleday 2, Blackadar 9,
Robinson, Sarantos, MacDougall, Wilson, Ritcev, Atkins.
son, K. McDonald, Cox, F. Campbell,
D. McNeil, C. McNeil.

Dalhousie: Goal, Koretsky. Defence, MacGregor, McDonald, Beer,
Forwards, Conn, Mont, Buckley, Irwin,
Mullane, Collins, Marshall, Corston.

THOMAS WALLAGE

SONS and DAUGHTERS

 

 

 

 

 

 

SIGHT SPECIALISTS

Y. M. C. A. BUILDING
Halifax, N. S.

OAK HALL BUILDING
Sydney, N. S.

“If You Want to See Well See
Wallace”

 

 

I CAN BE WRONG

*,
*

 

GAZETTE

  

 
  
 
 
       
    
  
 
 
  

  
  

°

By Roland D. Hurst
Joke

Why are we back? Well the story
goes something like this. Last week
it appears the Gazette didn’t sell or
the students didn’t pick it up or something, so the editors at their wits end,
tearing their hair and all that sort of
thing appealed to us on bended knee
to return.

Here we are!

Hockey

If the truth were told and we must
at all times tell the truth, the writer
knows very little of the after Xmas
sport situation. But any d--who was awake Wednesday
after the Tigers upset the Haligonians
could see that the ole’ University has
become hockey conscious all over
again. It appears that a fightin’
Tiger machine came from behind a
3-1 second period score to go on to
defeat Haligonians by 5-4 in
President Gordon Thompson
‘Dalhousie’s return to glory.’

fool
night

what
terms

Let’a Go To The Game
One thing was very much missing
however—The student attendance at
the game. Where were all the boys?
Perhaps the Boilermakers Ball and
the fair co-ed’s did a certain amount
of damage to the gate but at any rate
when the Dalhousians take the ice
in the next game let’s have a Dalhousie
cheering section that will stand New
Glasgow and Truro on their heads.
All the hockey team needs now is
support.

The Flying Frosh

Undoubtedly one of the sport highlights of the week was the massacre

of the Engineer basketball team by |

that “Three C Line’’ representing the
Frosh—Cameron, Charman and Colwell, the three little demons who raced
through ‘the high 'n mighty’ Engineers
at will served evidence that the Frosh
will be right in there like little ducks
when the management committee of
the D. A. A. C. hand around the
Interfaculty pins for basketball.

Hughie Little will not be ready for
the ice classics for at least another
two weeks.

Wrestling Class

Wrestling practise will be resumed
immediately. So far a meet with
the Y. M. C. A. alone is in prospect.
Correspondence has been carried on
with Army and Navy with a view
toward forming a city league. But
this term will be devoted toward
developing a team well grounded in
the fundamentals of this ancient and
skilful sport. Men all weights
are welcome. The squad so far comprises Leo Green, 125 Ibs., Samuel
Glick, 135 Ibs., Samuel Greenfield
and Wilfred Gorden, 145 lbs., Abram

of

 

 

Insist on getting

Donovan’s Beverages
including

Dublin Dry Ginger Ale

Donovan’s Orange Juice

15—different flavours—15

W.H. DONOVAN

B-6821

45 Granville St.

 

 

 

January, 14th, 1938

UBS OPEN DAL'S NET SEASON WITH LEAGUE WI

 

RESULTS

HOCKEY

Dal 4
Haligonians 4

BASKETBALL
Cubs 45

New Glasgow 8
Dal 5

Dal Garrison 35

 

Fantasy nie Fancy New Schedules
and Fact

(Continued from Page 2)

SOFTBALL

         

 

Kidd died with a clergyman alter- Fri., Jan. 14—Frosh vs. Med.
nately threathning the curses of Hell Dent. vs. A. & S.I
and offering the blessings of Heaven | Fri. Jan. 21—Law vs. A. & S.
ringing in his ears. The first time Dent. vs. Frosh.
the trap was sprung the rope broke. | Fri» Jan. 28—Law vs. Frosh.
Undeterred a second attempt. brought Med. vs. Dent.
more effective results. The last ac-| Fri., Feb, 4—-Med. vs. A. & S.
acount tells how Kidd having s Law vs. Dent.
money obtained ‘‘A bottle of spirits’ |Fri., Feb. 11—Law vs. Med.
to ease the tension of his bitter end. A. & S. vs. Frosh,

|
Educational Note of the Week a et ane
Boucans is a small island in the!

 

 

 

West Indies. It was a point of- call|

for the pirates of the day. The natives BASKETBALL
on this small island were expert in|

the art of drying and curing meats.|Tues. —Dent. vs. A. &S.
The free-booters learned this craft | Jan. 11 Frosh vs. Eng.
and as their skill spread they became | Thurs. —Law vs. Dent.
known as Boucaneers—later our word | Jan. 13 Med. vs. A. & S.
“buccaneers”. | Tues. —Law vs. A. & S.
en ——————————————— | Jan. 18 Dent. vs. Eng.
| Garson and Nordan Goodman, 5 | Thurs. —Frosh vs. Law.
lbs. and Sidney Pauker, 165 ibs. Jan. 20 Med. vs. Eng.
The recruits show remarkable promise, | Tues. —A. & 5. vs. Frosh,
but there is. always room- on top. | Jan. 25 Med. vs. Dent.
Pauker and Greenfield will coach | Thurs. Law vs. Eng.
with the help of Fletcher Smith, an|Jan.27 — Frosh vs. Med,
alumnus of Dalhousie. Tues. —Dent. vs. Frosh.

So for those who would build mighty | Feb. 1 Law vs. Med.

muscles, refer to posters, Monday,| Thurs. —Eng. vs. A. & S.
Wednesday, and Friday evenings at Feb. 3

8 we unroll the mats.

MEMORIAL GATES

ees ITY OF SASKATCHEWAN

 

 

      
   
  
 
 
  

2 me
Ra

)
oS i

iC onstructed of native field stone
+ of a warm grey tone with tints of

pink and yellow—these beautiful gates

were dedicated May 3rd, 1928 .

to the memory of students and staff

who fell during the Great War.

5 =

 
 

=< =>

SST mentnr

  

CIGARETTES

a Ee UNIVERSITY a a Ln FAVOURITE

Going Skating?

DRUGS

TOILET ARTICLES SKATING OUTFIT

Priced from $3.45 to $7.50

Also SKI BOOTS
$3.95 to $6.00

CONFECTIONERY
FOUNTAIN

FADER’S

Pharmacy
29 COBURG RD.

Wallace Bros. Ltd.

415 Barrington St.

Green Lantern Bldg.

 

 

You pay fora TYPEWRITER ONCE in

several years.

You pay the user every week, year
after year.

Use the Best — AN UNDERWOOD

UNDERWOOD FISHER ELLIOTT Limited

165 HOLLIS ST. HALIFAX, N. S.

 
