 

  

 

|

it de
hh
ne. ae
oe a

1 ee ~

tan

    
 

FANTASY, FANCY AND

iii ae ; The ho thinks-he has endome nee ol d for sity tuition finds he
has. unwittingly joined an athletic

club as well. A club which says he

“must, never play for any outside team,
or, if he does, he will be barred from re
the New York Giants baseball team

 

Columnist Hits

D.A.A.C. Attitude

FACT.

By Leonard Kitz.
D. A. A. C. Attitude.

It has long been the boast of various
D. A. A. C. officials that they run the
expensive campus activities; that they
run them as they see fit; that once
elected they are responsible to nobody..
Let us take a look at some D. A. A. C.
rules, what they mean, what is their
result, and, above all, how they are
being applied.

Dalhousie—Athletic

University?

Club or

Every student whether he wishes to
or not joins the D, A. A. C. at registration. That is not unreasonable
when we agree that money must be
raised to support our athletic activities. We feel however, that there are
some cases where the D. A. A. C, have
been unreasonable to the point of absurdity in the exercise of their administrative zeal.

 
    
    

       
 

          

presenting Dal in any sport in the future.
Dalhousie University is not a body like

or like the Tottenham Hottentots soccer team. We feel that attendance at
Dalhousie is primarily intended for
scholastic, not athletic endeavour.
Student relationship to an athletic
club or any other club should be regarded in that light.

D. A. A. C. Executives of the Past

 

In bygone years when men of broader vision and clearer perspective were
at the D. A. A. C. helm this fact was
often realized. There are many instances where a player wishing to join
the forces of some team outside Dalhousie was released from the meshes
which D. A. A. C. membership incurred.
wanted for first string varsity players,
often there were other reasons. In
any event these men were not held in
dog in the manger fashion.

(Continued on Page 2)

Brilliant Graduate
Dies

As the Gazette was going to press it was learned
with deep regret that Norman E. MacKay, lecturer

of Insurance at Dalhousie
Law School had passed

away after a short illness.

Mr. MacKay graduated
from Dalhousie in 1913 and
while a student at this Uni
versity was outstanding in
both scholastic and athletic activities. Students attended his classes with
great delight, charmed by
his inimitable wit and personality. His untimely
passing is a great loss to
Dalhousie and to the legal
world.

The Gazette extends its
sincere condolences to his
bereaved family.

    

The writer takes the stand that}

Very often they were men nott

 

 

HALIFAX, N.S., JANUARY, 21st, 1938

Anna Doesn’t Want The Boys Here Anymore

NS

Snest

Shirreff Hall is one of the

this university since the students have not the facilities of a Student Union building.
Gamma Society of this University applied for the use of the building for their annual dance.
by Miss Anna MacKeen—that they couldn’t have the dance in the hall—it would create too much trouble!
And so we are not permitted to make use of the one budding on the Campus where the girls can entertain.

v so wh: Coan

IT’S NOT FOR THE USE OF THE STUDENTS

buildings on this campus.

 

 

It should be the centre of the social life of

Recently the Delta
They were told

It is rumoured that Dalhousie girls are attempting to hold the dance in the Haliburton Room of King’s

College.

ee ——— —
“~¢

Press Prexy

 

:
John H. MacDonald

the ‘little Napoleon’’ of student life
at McGill University and editor of
the McGill Daily. He is the president
of the new Canadian University Press
service.

cena micieasns

Moot Court

The first Post-Christmas case to
come before the Bench of the Supreme
Moot Court of Dalhousie was ably
pleaded by Senior Counsels Ralph
Swetnam and Bob Armstrong on Tuesday afternoon.

At the opening of the Court Mr.
Finlay in his own unique way, congratulated the Judges on their recent
elevation to such an eminent position.
The case was one on the question of
nuisance ;in Tort. Counsel Sweatnam
argued in masterly fashion for the Appellants that it was a nuisance to peek
over your neighbours fence and thereby deprive him of certain rights. He
failed to convince the Court that that
was so,

Junior Counsels were Forbes and Fin
Jay.

 

For your approval or disapproval,®
appraisal or condeinnation, it humbly
behooves me to submit this edifving,
enlightening, stimulating, or what have
you, say so, in which I shall attempt to
voice the opinions of a less
multitude.

I look around
centres upon what
than mine might consider a joke; personally, | feel a tragedy is more appropriate.

One of the fair sex telephoned me

forward

me and my mind

less delicate wits

recently, and invited me to a Delta
Shirreff Hall
No sooner do I show my

Gamma Dance at
January 25.
appreciation for this little bit of flattery by taking her to a show, dinner,

on

and all the accessories, than she rings
back and says there isn’t any Delta
Gamma Dence.

“Why?” [ ask, beautifully calm outwardly.

“Can't get the Hall.”
“Why?” IT repeat. Still beautifully
calm.

‘Afraid of the wear and tear on the
building But personally, I think its
just because they don’t like to see us
city girls in there—afraid we'll hurt
their precious building or some such
measure. That building is for the
women students at Dalhousie University and it says so on a tablet that hits
you in the eye as soon as you get in
the place. Why, even when we pay
forty cents to have a lunch there, they
make us feel like so much excess baggage. And then when they get a perfectly good chance to breach the gap
between the city girls and the Hall
girls, they toss it away because?

Something tells me 1 had _ better
stop there. I don’t know just how
right she is, but I do know I wasted
the best part of a five dollar bill, reciprocating for a dance that never was.

The Gazette, on behalf
of the Student body, expresses

its deepest sympathy to Sidney Gillies on
the occasion of his recent
bereavement.

 

 

Commerce Dance

the ‘Commerce Society,
those Hounds of Finance in this university, hold their opening sale and stu
dents of Dalhousie are invited to come

Tonight

in and look over their goods for the

ridiculously lew price of .98c per couple.
An affair of the ‘a la Supreme’ va3all

promises to be everything the enter
riety this evening’s Millionaires’

prising boys in ‘the dollar and cents
school’ have said it would be.

The novelty of the dance in everything from price to publicity is only
e.ceeded by the generosity of the Millionaires have stage
their affair fer the benefit of the Students Council who are attempting to
make $200 to cover the eapenditure of
sending the Dalhousie delegates to the
Winnipeg conference.

who offered to

Jerry Naugler and his Financiers will
hold the musical stock eschange this evening. Jerry has been
brought back to the Dalhousie crowd
after a repeated demand during recent
weeks and promises to be in rare form
for the occasion.

sway at

Professor and Mrs. Escott Reid anu
Professor and Mrs John Willis will be
on the scene as chaperones to see that
‘all’s well.”

Just what will be the ‘last minute’
features of the frolic this evening is
still only a matter of rumour. Rollie
Hurst refuses to be quoted. (Can you
tie that one )

The writer is willing to wager that
the patrons will get more for their
98c than they ever expected however.
News via the grapevine, seems to indicate that the Millionaires have really
got something this evening.

We'll see you at the Gym at 9 bells.

Insult

They're telling the story around
the campus about the chap who was
almost murdered last week. He asked
one of the Engineering students what
he did with all his time,

cs
ee

Hockey

Truro vs. Dal

Wed. Jan. 26

Forum

 

 

 

 

 

No. 13

 

ARDEN FORBIDS DELTA GAMMA DANGE IN HALL

No Application For Manager

Year Book Scheme Discarded

©

Society Formed

A Dental Society of Dalhousie
Graduates has been recently formed
York.. “Meetings are held
twice a month, at which the problems
of the neophytes in the profession are
discussed—ethics, office management,
operative problems and so on. Demonstration Clinics, lectures and papers
are prepared by the members onthe
latest strides being made in the profession.

The infinitely obvious value of such
an organization, especially to the new
doctors is untold articles are being
written for the dental magazines and
the name of Dalhousie stans with the
foremost of the profession.

Although leaning definitely toward
the scientific side, a few social affairs
will be held during the year. The
scientific, combined with the friendly
atmosphere of Dalhousie is the heritage
of the dental students and it is hoped
that this feeling will not be allowed to
die.

in New

 

Ladies’ Lawyer

 

 

——

Ian MacKeigan
former editor of the Dalhousie Gazette and Law representative on the
Students Council who at the last session of the Council stuck with ‘the
girls’’ when councillors turned down the
girls appeal for $40 of their budget to
be spent in holding a Gym dance.

Radio Hour

At the Council Meeting last sunday
final arrangements were completed for
Dalhousie’s Radio Hour. Mr. John
Dickey of the Committee chosen to
look into the matter gave a report
stating that Major Borrett of CHNS
had been consulted on the matter and
he gave his full consent with a few
governing amendments. The amendments he stated were that he desired
a more serious programme then last
year in that the public was not so much
interested in musical or dramatic programs, but that they desired a more
comprehensive survey of a student's activities while at College.

President Day on behalf of the Council congratulated Mr. Dickey and his
confreres, Lawrence O’Brien and Margaret Morriscey on the splendid manner in which they had carried out their
duties. A representative committee
was chosen to carry out the programs
and at the suggestion of Councillor

(Continued on Page 4)

 

    

?,

OE ns annette

°

The Council of the Students met on
Sunday last in the Commerce Room of
the Arts Building. The highlights
of the day were the decisions concerning the Year Book, the Budget of the
Bulletin as submitted by Leonard Kitz
and the request of Delta Gamma to
use $40 of its budget for the purpose
of having a dance.

The Council decided much against
their wishes that the position of the
Year Book as a publication for this
year bad. No applicants had
been received for the position of Advertising Manager and it was felt that
without that the Year Book could not
be published. However, a motion
was passed to the effect that one or
two more likely candidates should be
asked and failing that, the idea should
be dropped. Day's
last report on the subject was that a
man could not be procured, Dalhousie for this, the Reunion Year, will
be without a Year Book.

was

President ‘Tag”’

Telephone Calls.

Mr. Leonard Kitz presented his
budget for the Bulletin for the year and
was rather coldly received. Two items
especially received much attention
(1) $10 for telephone calls and $5 for
miscellaneous. It was pointed out to
Mr. Kitz by Councillor Hurst that other officials of organizations on the Campus received no remuneration for expenditures on telephone calls but Mr.
Kitz pointed out that his was an organization which required frequent
telephone calling on the part of the
staff. The cut. Miscellaneous was an item which, in the word
of Councillor Barton there appeared
to be no need for its appearance on a
3ulletin budget which he said was a
project not calling for small unimportant expenditures. It was cut. The
argument took a personal turn when

item was

‘*Poor’’ Girls.

that the Bulletin

’ aa . a)
wasn t “as good as last year, anyway,

Miss Lawson said
and also that “important items of interest were being left out.”

The most interesting item of the
day was the argument concerning the
request of Delta Gamma to use $40
of the Council's money to hold a dance.
It seems that when the girls budyeted
they had that in view, according to
Miss Schwartz. Miss Lawson was the
speaker for the girls in the absence of
Irene Pentz,President of Delta Gamma.
She pointed out that the money was
saved because food was not being
served at the meetings. The Council
split up into factions. (1) Hurst and
Co., who thought they should be allowed to do so if it was an hotel dance
“as in the days when the Delta Gamma
was the big dance of the year’’. Those
boys were evidently pretty sure of an
invitation. (2) MacKean and
who said no,that the principle of
the budget system didn’t allow such an
expenditure to be made. Those were
the boys who have not as yet been disillusioned by campus politics. (3)
McKeigan and Co., who led by Ian
from behind a copy of the “New Republic” thought that the girls should
do what they darn well felt like with
the money. ‘‘Let them throw a Gym
dance if they want,’’ said Mr. McKeigan. “I won't get an invitation
anyway.’ Those boys comprised most
of the Council. A motion was later
passed to the effect that the girls
should at a later date bring up the matter with the Council Executives,

Co.,

ci

 

 
SS SaaS TSS SS aS

acette

= =

~

ow :

 

 

    
 
    
 
   
    
    
   
    
  
  
   
   
   
 
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
   
   
 
  
   
 
 
    
  
  
   
   
  
    
   
   
  
   
   
   
 
  
 
 
 
  
   
  

GAZETTE STAFF.
art Editors-in-Chief.
A, B. MACKENZIE. : E. F. MERCHANT.
cee) Bees. B-0254.
ane a Associates.
T. Babbitt Parlee, B. A. Walter Murphy. Roland Hurst.
~ Leonard Kitz. John F. Finlay, B. A. Peggy Merkel.

Byron Hatfield Lloyd Dalton! Barbara Murray

. News Editor. Sports Editor.
3 RICHARD MURPHY. JOHN DICKEY, B. A.
7 ae eaeee | B-5545.
m3 3 ih Ask. News Editor Business Manager. _ Proof Editor

ee \ ‘ if “
ah rs eh Neg he am

Peis oe en omit oe ill é Wy cee
ee ae y

rap: Ps =

SS See ee
aa

- MARJORIE McLEAN. R.L. ARMSTRONG, B. A. MALCOLM MacLEOD.
SoMa Fay B-5700.
ooo

~

z Fyne Z lhe ré

SS
a ‘

el ae

=a

é

“H, M. S. PINAFORE”

/

Shortly after the announcement last term that a Dalhousie
Choral Society had been formed the Gazette carried an editorial
expressing the hope that at last this University might have musical
shows instead of the usual type of Glee Club presentations of the
past few years. As the Choral Society is affiliated with the Glee
~ Club and comes under the executive of the latter association we
felt that before the college year was over the students should be

presented with an operetta of some description.

In the Gazette issue of January 7 Glee Club officials ran a story
oo for applications for parts in Gilbert and Sullivan's “H. M.S.
Pinafore,’ which was to be produced on Munro Day, sometime in
March. Just one week later another item was printed which announced that “due to lack of time and players all plans for producing Gilbert and Sullivan's H. M.S. Pinafore have been dropped

At the same time we editorially complimented the Choral Society
and indirectly the executive of the Glee Club on at last presenting
entertainment worthy of this University. In the ‘same issue
- Obiter commented that the proposed performance “sounds al- most too good to be true” and so, it seems, it was too good to be

~
!

true. But why?

——l

~ ee ee ee ae ee a eT
es * a = ten a eb Fo Mem B.
Was 2) Te at. ae id
_ : X ¥
F . ;

xa

as °
rn

-i= —a }

ss We learned from officials that the leads, and especially the
male leads, could not be filled. The men would not take the nec-__ essary time from their studies, for it would mean practicing almost
ily. Further questioning brought from one Glee Club official,
an old Mount Allisonian himself, the fact that it took practically
ein 1 college year before Mount A. presented their memorable permance of ‘Pinafore.’ We admit that our knowledge of operas,
rettas and musical shows in general is limited, but why did the
itive of th 2 Glee Club ente tain the idea, even for a moment,
nat Dalhor sie could produce ‘‘Pinafore” in a little over two months
when it took a sister university four times that long to present
: ) If rehearsals had begun the week the Choral
BY fe |, it would have been none too soon, The
| ae executive, no doubt an experienced body, had the example of the
New Brunswick university before them—yet they failed. We
understand that the President of the Glee Club was against the
production from the first on the grounds stated above. We.
. should have thought that this supreme official would have vetoed
_ ‘the idea at the beginning, but he democratically left it to a meeting
_--__—s perhaps another argument for fascim, whether right or wrong.

72S Se Ec
pe (

i

ae a
A, tii a's

ite,

da
=

r=

| the same operatta? —
Society was organized,

urs

fa
i " aad
|
hi
_ lg

,
Pi

"aan,

It is too late, then, to produce ‘‘Pinafore’’ this year and so the
Gazette would strongly urge the outgoing Glee Club executive to
recommend to the 1988-39 body that a serious attempt be made to
__ present that operetta or a similar one, with rehearsals beginning
in early autumn. This year the services of two experienced di-__- rectors were offered to us and probably the same two men would
____ be willing to assist next year. If the Glee Club next Fall budgeted
«for a definite production of the above we feel sure the Council
R would appropriate the necessary monies. So profiting by experience, let’s have an operetta produced by Dalhousians next year.

at

DALHOUSIE ON THE AIR

Just a year ago this month Dalhousie first went on the air.
Keeping abreast of the advancing tide of Progress this University
inaugurated a series of radio programmes that met with instant
popularity on the Campus. This winter Dalhousie will again
have that programme which, we trust, will be more widespread
than its predecessor. The series will commence sometime next
month. Headed by a capable committee who have profited greatly by a year’s experience, Dal’s Quarter Hour should prove to
be a popular feature with all listeners.

In March, Dalhousians scattered over the Dominion will have
the opportunity of hearing a programme produced solely by the
--__ students of this college. This is one of a series in which leading
Canadian Universities take part and will be broadcast over the
network of the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation. We have
here the opportunity of achieving nation-wide prominence and
for this reason all students and student societies should spare
neither time nor labour to assure complete success of the occasion.

CONFERENCE ACHIEVES UNITY

A word picture of how more than three hundred students from
universities stretching from east to west across Canada strove and
ey accomplished a unification of ideas and ideals is given by Armour
‘MacKay writing his impressions of the National Conference of
Canadian University Students in a current issue of the Toronto

Saturday Night. ‘What the other fellow thought and why he

thought it’ became the driving force of the three-day Conference,
_ writes Mr. MacKay and a St. F. X. delegate from Antigonish often
found he wholly agreed with a fellow student from Victoria College
in British Columbia, on the national matters discussed.

And out of this exchange of ideas came a concrete unity upon
_ which greater things can be built. Expected to be the stormy
-___ petrels of the conference, the French students from the University

of Montreal stated their arguments on Communism and separat
1.
- ‘ * Ml
*

  

| _DALHOUSIE
Fantasy - = Fancy
and Fact |

(Continued from Page 1).

‘Obiter

Much has been written on the art of
loafing, and now that a letter has appeared in the Gazette purported to have
been written by the laziest person on
the campus, some further attention is
needed. Personally, I think the writer
was boasting, but I don’t want to
steal his thunder. I never thought
loafing was an art myself, and I can
think of much more difficult things.
For instance, getting new shoes to
squeak. I have always admired that
artful person who walks down the aisle
with an accompaniment of squeaks.
Much more difficult than loafing,
really. And of course, anyone whose
shoes squeak stands a better chance of
becoming known than does one who
only loafs. Effort always pays. (But
not much.)

‘Things are seldom what they
seem.”’

How true. Last week the campus
was glorying in the prospect of ‘H.
M. S. Pinafore,’ and now, it is quite
cast down. In fact it was dropped.
This loafing must be catching. How
those colleges around us will laugh.
Dalhousie can't even play with light
opera let alone play it. Maybe next
the Glee Club will try Shakespeare.
He is quite highly spoken of as a playwright, I hear. Of course he hadn't
anything on Shaw, but he was all right
in his day. And when they drop
Shakespeare, it will make an awful
noise. But wait until neat year when
they drop Verdi. Possibly the year
after they may drop Wagner. Lots of
people think he should be dropped before that. I hope they drop examinations sometime. I was going to make
a candy machine when I was in grade
four. I haven’t made it yet. I
dropped it. That's catching too. I
had better stay away from the Choral
Society.

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
   
   
  
    
 
   
  

Instance Number One

The situation is not a petty one.
Dalhousie lost an athlete and a fine
fellow when one student refused to be
coerced by the D. A. A. C. He wanted to play rugby with the Wanderers.
Dalhousie refused. He then enrolled
at Kings. He played rugby with the
Wanderers. He now plays basketball
with Kings. Dal could well have used
that man in tennis and_ basketball.
It is shameful to think in any event,
that the D. A. A. C. has the power
that results in forcing students from
the University doors.

Instance Number Two

So much for that instance of D. A.
A. C. mediocrity. Let us examine
their latest attempt of executive genius.
A basketball player at Dalhousie wished to play for the Dal Grads. He
teaches at the Halifax Academy. He
is a graduate of Dalhousie. He has
played with Grad players when they
were at Dalhousie. He takes only a
few classes at the University.

The D. A. A. C. surpassed their usual
Lilliputian manner in this case. They
said he could play for no more Dal
teams if he played with the Grads.
He agreed. Then not yet satisfied the
night of a match, with the player in
uniform, they threatened to enforce
an earlier edict that the Grads would
be denied the use of the Dal gym if
that player were used.

The Grads are not strangers to Dalhousians. They are composed of men
like Don Bauld, Ted Crease, Tom
Parker, Doug Crease, Don MacIntosh.
These are men who have done much to
the credit of Dalhousie. They have
brought more credit to her name than
the little men who now greet them in
petty manner laying forth edicts in
take-it-or-leave-it fashion. The Grads
playing for no reward but the sport of
the game should be treated in more
courteous manner,

In attempting to intimidate an outside club the executive is taking a step
never yet taken by the D, A. A. C.
in its entire history. The writer suggests it is not a popular move.

A picture comes to one’s mind. A
child is in a tantrum. His playmate
down the street is going to play tiddlywinks with someone else. They want
to practice in his yard. That is the
only place they can practice. Tears
are streaming down the little fellow’s
wet cheeks. “I won't let them play,
I won’t let them play.’’ he sobs bitterly.

This is very likely not the wish of the
student body of Dalhousie to whom the
D, A. A. C., whether they know it or
not, owe responsibility.

Terpsichorean Activity.

This age is one which will go down in
history as one of -experimentation.
Not the least of the great trials of today is that taking place in Russia.
Hitler has something too. (But not
much.) What will really be remembered however, is the laboratory work done
in the ball room. At least it is called
ball room dancing, but I hear that it
started in Harlem. Harlem is a place
several miles from the nearest ballroom.
The Big Apple, the latest craze, or at
least it was the latest crazebefore Christmas, and is not more than in third place
now, has received considerable publicity. They did it at the Law Ball,
I think. They did something. anyway, and Big Apple is as good a name
as any. If we all have to learn it,
and I speak for those who think they
are pretty smart to keep off her toes
for two minutes at a time, dancing will
not be very popular in about five years.
But right now we could do with one.
I move for a dance over the grave of

——_—_9-—_ —“Pinafore.”

We Wonder ..

If Doug McKean is 99% of the Dal
spirit?
Thumb nail descriptions:
Ian Robb: Whiskey tenor.
Silas (Red) Black: Chair warmer,
especially in the dining room.
Pine Hill Pepper Box.

—_——_o———
Occasionally you see a man driving a
car so carefully that you conclude it
must be paid for.

25 Yearsa

STUDENTS’ BARBER

Patronized by Doctors and
Professors

LADIES HAIR BOBBING
RAZOR HONING

When the Cantelope-Sellars duet
team sits down before the Pine Hill
piano, Leopold Stokowski himself turns
green with envy. Their latest effort,
Variations on an original theme brought
East from the West, puts all the classical
composers in the shade.

JACK MITCHELL, Prop.
41 SPRING GARDEN RD.

 

 

 

ism quietly ahd convincingly and created a better understanding
with their fellow Canadians. We were particularly struck by the
report of a Frenchman’s answer to “‘Why don’t you like Communists?”’ ‘‘Look here,” he said, drawing a 25-cent coin from his
pocket, “look—‘Dei Gratia Rex’—‘King By The Grace of God.’
The Communist attacks God and undermines the foundations
of everything.”’

A strong nationalist feeling permeated the conference—especially in matters of foreign policy. A resolution that ‘‘Canada
declare itself in favour of a foreign policy independent of that of
Great Britain” was passed with a huge majority. Not that the
delegates wished to break ties with the Motherland, but as their
next resolution calling for a clear-cut statement of a Canadian
foreign policy from the Federal government showed, they wished
to know what they were up against and why.

And so the third conference of Canadian University Students
has passed on. In its wake it has planted seeds which delegates
from 27 Dominion campuses will endeavour to plant in turn
for the betterment of Canadians and Canada.

ES SE eee hentia ieiane

 

January, 21st, 1938

 

“Some people think

you're almost human—”’

“If | were I'd be smoking a Sweet Cap—right now!”

 

SWEET CAPORAL CIGARETTES

“The purest form in which tobacco can be smoked.”

 

 

When You Need

or any other Drug Store Merchandise

DRUGS MEDICINES
You get better
at

KINLEY’S DRUG STORES

    
    
     

PRESCRIPTIONS

SERVICE VALUE

and

  

BEFORE BUYING

LUGGAGE or LEATHER GOODS
OF ANY KIND SEE

AELLY’S LTD.

118 GRANVILLE ST.

NEXT
TUESDAY
AT THE

CAPITOL
A PICTURE

TO THRILL
EVERY
BRITISHER
“FAREWELL
AGAIN”’

 

|EATONS

 

 

Get The Habit.

The Green Lantern

habit is a good one for

meals, lunches or drinks

The Green Lantern
407-409 BARRINGTON ST.

 

 

 

Renown
Fine Fur Felt Hats

For

Priced at, Each

3.50

Men and young men choose
their hats the ‘“Renown Line time after time
They prefer them because they
offer a fine quality at a moderate price. They’re styled
right and are made of better
grade fur felts. There’s always a range of new models to
select from. Various shades
of greys and browns in the
range.

from

EATON’S Men’s Hat Departmen!
Main Floor

‘T.

MAR IT

Men

 

/%
Nord
\
N

iIMES

Cc: MITED

 

 

 

 
 

| a ee a
ea ‘<
Been! te : i
,* ap
ie ‘ ;
dg iv,
1 ee a i
LE a '
pr} ome
ceil Tine +.
' Pe
a> > es a mi
a
nue 2s t, ee
anua §
ae a
y + ‘ =
art ees aa are. a

 

"Why Socialism

_ By Wm. R. Stubbs, Arts ‘41

Asa freshman at my first university
conference, of far more value than my
- opinions of the progress and benefits
of that meeting, | feel that what I can
really contribute are my impressions,
which are probably more vivid to me
than to the other delegates. The first
‘thing was the firm resolution of the
delegates almost to a man to face Canadian problems squarely and to find
the most practical solutions.
Since I wason the Productive Enterprise commission, the solutions with
which I became best acquainted, were
those relating to industry. The trends
there were definitely socialistic, but
took the practical expedient form of
- trade unions and co-operatives. It
was most remarkable to me that in the
commission it was taken for granted
unanimously that there was something
radically wrong with the capitalistic
set-up, and that remedies were necessary and necessary immediately. It
was our commission that was responsible for the resolution to support trade
unionism that is, in practise, on the
tampus, by influencing student coun_cils to give preference to bids for work
from unionist businesses, or at least
where conditions of work are humane,
and individually, to patronize union
businesses as much as possible. I
endorse these recommendations completely.
It was this trend towards socialism
that makes me feel that our commission
was in line with the trend of the whole
conference. The acknowledged best
_ speaker of the conference was Reinhold
_ Niebuhr, who is to my mind an out
: and out socialist. The almost wholea hearted support of radical doctrines
= is something new to me, and I went to
_ the conference, one might almost say,
a capitalist, and came back with soa cialistic inclinations. ‘Lhe feeling was
So intense that it was impossible not
to be influenced, and it was this conction of something being radically
g with ‘the world ee and so
  
  
   
 
  
   
   
  
 
 
 
 
    
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
  
 
  
   
   
   
 
  
   
 
  
    
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
  
 
   
 
 
   
    
 
  
    
   
   
 
 
 
    
  
   
 
 
 
    
  
 
  

 

On E Riligion
. By Glynn Firth, Arts “40

i the Conference did nothing else
it awakened many of the delegates to
he the fact that God is an actuality, and
a that he might have. something to do
pet them. I think Prof. Niebuhr
was largely instrumental in this. His
© talks were deliberately dark and pessimistic, vet they contained the note of
hope that all who really believe must
share. ‘Wherever life is related to
life harmoniously and creatively, the
Kingdom of God is there.’’ We can
never hope that the Kingdom of God
will be realized on this earth with us as
its inhabitants. We may achieve what
we think is the Kingdom of God, yet
it will not be. Only by admitting that
it is not, and by continuing to work
toward the ultimate perfection, can
we reach those ‘“‘broader fields of justice’ of which Prof. Niebuhr spoke.
What of the Church as an instrument
for bringing about the Kingdom of God?
The attitude of most university students seems to be that the church is
outmoded, is an archaism, a sham.
This is evident right here at Dalhousie.
Undoubtedly institutional religion
- needs a revitalizing, a new and better
outlook, a fresh method of approach.
This can be achieved only as those who
believe in the attempt to bring about
the Kingdom of God through the instrumentality of the Church are willing
to sacrifice themselves in the effort,
even to the extent of running in opposition to the Church as it is to-day.
I think we cannot scrap the old unless
we are sure we have an effective substitute. We can remake the old,
forcing on it the consciousness that it
‘must never be static, but always dynamic.

The Conference was a challenge to
_ the Church, and one that the Church
_ must answer or completely lose its grasp
on thinking students.

It was a challenge to personal refy ligion, for there one met people who
were Christian, and who enjoyed it.
_ It was a challenge to bravery, bea cause it at one recognized the need for
ri * natal and the amount of courage

Pe ncaa as

Begs sree
*

ye oe

| DALHOUSIANS VIEW.
‘CANADA’S PROBLEMS >

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

BY ROLAND HURST

Dalhousians received a royal welcome at the National Conference but they
did get a bit tired hearing one remark and answering one question.

‘““Dalhousie—That’s where Herbie Stewart and R. A. MacKay are.”

“Oh, you're from Dalhousie—do you know Escott Reid?’

Another spontaneous remark which greeted the delegates several times a
day was ‘You have a wonderful Law School down there.”

Thanks to the Law School and the three gentlemen mentioned above the
Dal delegates found the ground already broken.

But the Conference!

“Even if nothing else were done, we have met and talked, and now we understand each other—We are all Canadians”. In his or her heart that is the opinion brought away from Winnipeg by the 325 students who attended the National Conference and though the five day assembly did result in a marathon of
arguing and brain work it was well worth the long trip—the sleepless nights—
the missed meals and all the little exigencies which cropped up one hundred
times per day.

In the accompanying articles the Dalhousie delegates to the Winnipeg

 

A Round Table

conference, have attempted to interpret the opinion of students throughout this

Dominion towards some of the principal issues which arose at Winnipeg.

Padlock Law

By James Curry, Law ‘40

Probably no Canadian legislation of
recent years has been the subject of so
much heated controversy as the Padlock Law of Quebec. Passed as a
measure of self-defence, it has been interpreted, parodoxically enough, as an
attack on the civil liberty which it was
intended to defend.

The French-Canadian is accused of
having been too willing to sacrifice
his liberty but this he indignantly
denies. His subtle mind draws a keen
distinction between “‘liberty’’ and “‘license.”’ The former he treasures but
the latter is to him the repudiation of
the former. He knows he has rights
such as to worship as he pleases and he
holds any interference to be inconsistent with his rights, ‘If I have the
right to live,’’ he says, “then nobody
can have the license to kill me. Communism requires the destruction of
the things I hold dearest. I should be
protected from Communism and the
Padlock Law was passed to give me that
protection. It is not the edict of a
dictator but the act of a responsible
government. It is not the limitation

but the guarantee of liberty.”’

In reply it is argued that the admin‘| istration of such a law by the AttorneyGeneral rather than by the court is a
tyrannical violation of one of the
fundamental principles of our constitution. The government of Quebec,
it is said, has usurped the junction of
the judiciary. It smacks of Fascism.

The criticism is not exactly accurate.
It is the law, of course, that the Attorney-General can, without recourse
to the courts, order closed any building
in which he believes Communistic
propaganda is being manufactured.
The Attorney-General is not required
to prove his case. But—and it is an
important ‘“‘but’’—there is nothing to
stop the occupier or owner of the premises from taking the matter into court
and satisfying a judge that there was a
miscarriage of justice. It is not good
English procedure. By English law a
man is innocent until he is proven
guilty. But this is in Quebec. It is
French law, pure and simple: The
man is guilty until he proves his innocence. If incipient dictatorship lurks
in this law we can expect the province
of Quebec to develop into a dictatorship such as they have in France—
where governments are supreme for
a couple of months. .

The real issue would seem (to this
incompetent commentator) to be the
technical point of whether this is civil
or criminal law. If civil, it is quite
compatible with the civil law of that
province, which is French: if criminal
it is inconsistent with the criminal
procedure which i is common to all Canada.

In substance it would seem superfluous. The laws of Canada for the
suppression of the advocates of violent
revolution were sufficiently stringent
before this one was placed on the statute books of Quebec. Neither Mr.
King nor our own Mr. Bennett is a
great admirer of the Communists and
only a few years ago in un-French
Toronto the Communists felt the teeth
of our Criminal Code. Could anyone
really think that the judges of Quebec
would abandon their consciences and
deal too leniently with advocates of
anarchy if there were no Padlock Law?
And if this law has no significant effect why should we worry over it?
In the glare of the real problems of
to-day this question should fade into
oblivion,

Jap Boycott ;

By Gene Morrison, B. A. M.A. ‘39.

While coeds in various
universities were making the
page by dramatically substituting lisle
for silk stockings, Canadian university

students at the National Conference | St?y—unless we are prepared, a la Hep
refused to vote on a resoltion urging

the application of an embargo on the We must admit that the time is come
shipment of war materials to Japan| hen we must see how best to fit trade

and the extension by students of a| Um!ons into our economic system, and

voluntary boycott of Japanese goods.

Students who wished to have the| society as a whole.

conference pass such a resolution were

of the belief that Canada could and/| 5 that there are all sorts of trade unions,
should by her own action stop the war| Many
in China. They pointed to Canada’s] (Witness the Lewis-Green fight in the
control of nickel supply and to the fact| U. S. A.), many with diverse aims and
that she is undoubtedly profiting from | ™ethods, communist and_ ultra-conFinally, they painted | SeTvative unions,
the ironic picture of Canada strength-| "ational unions—all go to make up the
ening her Pacific coast defences and| unions to which some 325,000 Canad
yet increasing immensely her sale of ians belong.

the aggression.

war materials to the Far East.

What was behind the refusal to vote| type Of union does not the recent Naon the resolution? Perhaps one reason, tional Fish embroglio cast light? Does
was that against resolutions on foreign| it not suggest,
policy iu general—could a dependable | Of the impending negotiations, that the
decision come from a conference of five | C- I. QO. type of union is a better labour
days especially when resoluiions were| Weapon than the A. F. of L. type now
passed in plenary session, the majority | #PParently in control of the fish indus
the question?

certain questions arise.

of people voting having spent very| tty? Labour can get results only by and 3 Days Starting Saturday
little time in serious consideration of | Concerted action, by united and con- Back to Blakeley’s January 22nd.
centrated leadership acting strongly
Concerning the resolution specifically | 0" the basis of well-prepared plans. I Where Students Know “YOUR ONLY
Canada has| 2M not suggesting that the Fish Hand- Tha “Food” ic. Bacell
within her borders approximately 90% lers’ Union did not get support from = 35 * mcetiont YOUNG ONCE”
The Atmosphere

of the world’s nickel but perhaps “‘it | Other unions affiliated with the Trades
does not hold the decisive place which | and Labour Congress, but that a strong

is sometimes attributed to it.’

Supposedly such action would have
as its purpose the stopping of aggression in the hope of the maintenance of
peaceful relations for Canada. But
can world peace come this way alone?
To take steps towavds this end involves
also full co-operation in ‘‘peaceful
change”’ and in the solution of economic
problems. To what extent have we
realized what this involves for Canada?
For a constructive and lasting advance
towards peace consideration and action
must be directed towards the whole
problem. Action arising from the
hasty enthusiasm of the moment
promises little.

eeepc jateithecteienes

Dogs and Fireworks
The following is an actual letter
to a small English paper this year:
regarding Guy Fawkes Day: “Sir:
The fireworks season has come round
PONT: 5 Dogs at large when fireworks are going off, frequently take
fright and run for miles (the lost dog
statistics always show a rise at this
time). For this reason it is advisable
to exercise a dog on the lead just now
unless he has already proved himself
immune from fright in the presence
of loud explosions.

When finally returned to home, a
quiet room should be found for him,
Some owners find that pads of cotton
wool tied loosely over the ears are
helpful. Radio music is also said to
mitigate the distress.

Faithfully yours,
XYZ,
National Canine Defense

League.
cen as

Secretary,

‘Have you anything to say before I
pass sentence on you’?’

“Yes, your honor, I should like you
to have your lunch first.”

“After friendship it is confidence,
before friendship it is judgment.”—
Seneca,

lened to

 

| without considering the merits of the

American of the relation of the trade union movefront | Ment to our economic system as a whole.

Page Three

 

Trade Unions
By Ian MacKeigan, M. A., Law ‘

The question of trade unions has in
the past been considered by Dalhousie
students, when considered at all, in a
detached and academic fashion, without recognition of its practical importance in the world in which we live.
The pacific sea of mental inertia has
perhaps been rippled slightly by the
furore of industrial warfare which recently disturbed Haligonian peace.

The reactionaries among us have
looked with horror upon the idea that
business-men should be controlled by
any factors other than their own peculiar whims and fancies. Other students, ever eager to grind in the dust
the “‘ogre-faced capitalist,’’ have hastacclaim any manifestation of
trade union organization and action,

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

particular case, or the wider question
Whether we like it or not, we must
admit that trade unions have come to

burn, fascistically to suppress them.

    
   
 
   
    
   
 
   
   
    
   
  
 
 
  
  
  
   
  
  

to direct their energies for the good of
The first thing that we should realize
rival

types of organizations

national and inter
Buckingham

On the question of what is the best

whatever the results

Back Again - - CASINO

   

 

      
       
    

M-G-M’s Grand Successor
to ‘‘AH WILDERNESS’”’
with
LEWIS STONE
CECELIA PARKER
MICKEY ROONEY
— plus —
LAUREL & HARDING
in their funniest comedy

‘‘BEAN HUNKS”

    
 

Friendly and

   

! union cov ering all branches of the fish
industry would have been much more
effective.

Another lesson illustrated by the fish
dispute is that trade unions in the future will not and should not protect
industrial workers only, but will take
in eventually all persons directly dependent on a particular industry—primary producer, industrial workers,
technical and professional worker (in
which class are many college graduates
énd which has been barely touched by
organization.)

The Nova Scotia Trades Union Act,
hailed far and wise as a great forward
step, seems to have been moderately
successful in the present dispute.
The important thing in the future, however, is to bolster up its weaknesses—
we have yet to hear any adequate explanation of the long postponement of
government interyention—and to see
that it is carried out in spirit as well as
in letter.

It is evident that the millenium has
not been attained merely by the passage of the above Act. Two problems
in particular must be solved in the
future. First—how can we remove the
present irresponsibility of trade unions
without removing their value to the
worker? Neither the worker nor society as a whole wishes to substitute in
the place of power an irresponsible
trade union for an irresponsible capitalist.

Second—how, without government
aid and supervision, can the trade
unions cope with the problem of the
marginal industry—for example, the
case of a coal mine giving low wages
and poor conditions, yet barely paying costs, which, if forced to increase
wages and improve conditions, would
have to close down? The present
trend seems to show that the answer
must be an ever-increased measure of
government ownership or control, particularly in many fields of large scale
industry, in order to give security to
primary producer, worker, and consumer, and to render industry more stable.

   

The Service Courteous

        
    

BLAKELEY’S

43 Spring Garden Rd.

    
      
 

  
 

 

 

Te
B-7555 B-9727

Che Wade Bros. Taxi

5 and 7 Passenger Cars
UNIFORMED CHAUFFEURS

TO AND FROM DANCES TAKE WADE BROS.

A Message to College Men--
  
   

  

Whether buying a life insurance policy as a

provision for the future, or contemplating

    
 

the selling of life insurance as a profession, you

   

would do well to consider the outstanding

sixty-seven year record of The Mutual Life

of Canada.

 
   
    

Communicate with our nearest

   

Branch Manager or our Home Office.

UA AL

ESTABLISHED 1869.
Owned by the Policyholders
HOME OFFICE—WATERLOO, ONT.

  
  

   
         
 

os B x ? ee
   
   
 
   

 

  

| SCHEDULE

_ HOCKEY

wae Jan. 26 — =
TRURO AT DAL
Fri. Jan. 28
Dal at New Glasgow

}- BASKETBALL
r? INTERMEDIATE
DALAT Y

_ Thurs. Jan. 27
DAL v. GARRISON

    
     
   
   
   
   
   
   
     
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
    
   
   

 

Next Wednesday night our Pisut
ee a home engagement with the
Truro Bearcats at the Forum. The
Tigers suffered defeat at the Truro
rink on Monday night of this week and
are out for revenge, so plenty of action
should be dished out in next week’s
tilt.

Those who have not seen this year’s
edition of the Hockey Tigers in action
are a bit suspicious of the enthusiasm
shown by the few that have, but anyone that saw them play the Haligonians
last week has a first class excuse to be
enthusiastic. That game was a thriller
-and the Tigers showed ability, fight,
and a capacity to come through in the
pinches which should earn them the
support of the whole student body.
If it does not the fault is with the student body and not with the hockey
team.

The Bengals went through two stiff
practice sessions this week under the
watchful eye of coach Vince Ferguson,
and will be in top condition for next
week's meeting.

Pooh DeWolfe starry winger on Dal

- teams for two seasons played his first
Kame of the season in Truro Monday
2 night, ze will be on hand Wednesday
«@ h a cracked ankle bone “Pooh”
‘bi ig help back — on oe Da! firing)
cies at Don't forget—Dal vs. Truro at the
ee Forum next Wednesday at 8.30 P. M.
- Dal band in attendance.
‘DeWolfe, starry winger of Dal leaves
for two seasons, will be back in harness
on Wednesday night. Out with a
cracked ankle bone ‘‘Pooh” will be a
big help on the Dal fireing line when
r gets back into the game.

i : Basketball

A much improved Dal Team handed
the cautious Wanderers squad a wellearned trimming in last night's Senior
Exhibition game. The scoreof 25-17
bears witness to the Tiger’s superiority
over their ancient foemen. A week's
ee practice ircned out the rotrgh points
of both offense and defense and their
e. smoothly clicking up-floor team play
was sufficient to down the stalling Redmen. The men from Sackville St.
seemed to have difficulty in piercing
the closely knit Dal defense and their
set shooting was poor to the point of
desperation.

The Tigers opened the scoring with
P baskets by Shainhouse and Miller in
the first minute of play, and it was
eleven minutes before the Wanderers
finally found the mark. A minute
later Miller dropped in a long effort
- and the Redmen at last got going and
| pulled out to lead 7-6. Intermittent
*%. scoring by both teams ended in a 10-9

mt lead for the yellow and biack.

- y ‘ After the breather the Tigers curled
‘é in a couple of lay-ups to establish a
margin that was never headed. The
Wanderers evened it up at 14 all and
this was the closest they came to
bursting into the lead. Despite strenBee, , uous efforts to get away fast, Dal was
~~ able to control their opponents offensive and hold them in the closing
Er moments while the Reds tried to make
|. up a 6 point margin of victory.
The game on the whole was slow and
> not much classy basket-ball was shown.

 

| Missed shots, poor passing and hesi| _-—- taney in completing plays spoiled the
ss general effort of the match. It was a

pretty ragged exhibition that was put
on by the teams and the only thing
. that was good to watch was the way
_ the Dal defense was working. The
Tigers had improved greatly since last
week's fiasco but much needs to be
Rie dcne before they can be seriously considered as title contenders in the City

- i League.

 

"Seek Reverse Decision Of
a irst Meeting In Home Game

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

 

I Can Be Wrong

By Roland D. Hurst.

Edgar Stewart will play basketball with Dalhousie—or else. It's
about time Dalhousians gave up the
idea of competing against the university by playing with competing teams.
The Dalhousie Athletic association has
been the target for much undue criticism in the present fiasco—President
Thompson has been laughed at for his
‘Tf you don’t play for Dal, then the
Grads can’t play in the Gym’ attitude
but he’s up against a tough proposition. If he let’s down the bars in this
case perhaps all the boys will want to
throw in their lot with the Grads—
the Y—Wanderers and all Dalhousie’s
age-old enemies.

After holding Truro’s Allan Cup
famed Bearcats to a 3-2 score at the
end of the second period Monday
night, the Tigers went ‘flooey’ in the
last period and Truro roared on to a
7-3 victory. But that Tiger hockey
squad is a going concern. If you don’t
believe it take a trip up to the Forum
next Wednesday night.

——— CT

Basketball comment: Despite the
efforts of Coach Arty Shainhouse the
senior basketeers,just can’t seem to get
going—Yes the basketball team is the
surprise of the year, but it wasn’t the
surprise the students expected. To
adopt Benny’s phraseology last weeks
exhibition was the ‘mosta of the worsta
After watching Johnny Martin throw a
few wild heaves the fellow in the seat
next to us turned around and asked
‘Is that guy Martin playing second
base’’—‘‘Doug Lyall predicts Dalhousie
will take Wanderers in Thurs. nights
feature.”’-—Was he right?

Rumour has it that ‘The Dalhousie
Bruisers’—the feminine hockey aggregation of this university, will go into
action immediately. During the past
week the boys have been flabbergasted
to see slim legged co-ed’s hustling
about with hockey sticks, shin pads and
all the armaments for the ice war.

Ken Colwell says ‘Well we gota
skating rink—how about somebody to
skate?”’

Babe Stewart and Toar Baird stepped into the interfaculty basketball picture this week against Arts and Science
—after three or four minutes they stepped out. My! how these Law boys
keep in condition.

Pooh DeWolfe upset the dopesters
predictions in the highly publicized
Phi Kapp ping pong tournament recently when he biffed-banged and poohed the reigning champ, Charlie Roberts all over the little green table.

 

Dalhousie can carry Alumni players
of the Senior hockey roster for the
simple reason that the Alumni of this
university are behind the hockey squad
100 percent. Unlike the basketball
league—the hockey league is wide open
and President Sam Balcom, one of the
finest sportsmen ever to go out from
this university, is one of the big reasons
why the hockeyists are getting along
as wellas they are. The hockey squad
is not in a position to bite the hand

that feeds them.
—__—__—_ 9 —____..

Puzzled.

After making an examination, how
is a dental student supposed to answer
when the patient says, “Do you think
I’m as silly as I appear?”

“ “ ~
en SESS

 

Truro Win With
Four Goal Rally

Students’ Rink Ready For Use

Interfaculty

Last Friday night the Interfaculty

softball schedule got under way. In

After fighting an uphill battle for|the inaugural game the A & S crew

two and a half periods of fast hockey,
and finally tieing the score at 3-3, the
Dal Tigers blew up and allowed four
,oals to the Truro Bearcats enabling
them to emerge from the fray with a
7-3 verdict.

Coming as a surprise to those who
had seen boil teams in action the defeat dropped the Tigers back to third
place in the league behind New Glasgow and Truro.
misfortune to have four goals dissallowed, at least two of which looked as
good as gold.

The opening period was productive
of nothing \ery much in the line of geod
hockey the play being for the most
part very ragged, The Dal forwards
outfooted the Truro boys but couldn't
control the puck once they got past the
Bearcats’ blue-line. Jack Ryan notched the only marker in this session
whe n he beat Koretsky at the 7 minuté mark.

The teams divided four goals in the
middle frame when both squads showed
an improvement in handling the rubber round the nets. Taylor opened
the firing when he scored after two minutes. Harvey Conn matched this one
when he coasted in on the Truro cage
and beat Mumford. Biswanger, who
played a great game on the Truro rearguard made it 3-1 when his shot from
centre ice fooled Koretsky. Jack
Buckley ‘the little master’’ who was the
spearhead of the Dal attack got Dal’s
second goal when he took Corston's
rink wide pass and drove in the puck.

In the third period Dal went out to
do or die. They did at first but then
died as Truro, taking advantage of
every break, rammed in four markers
to put the game safely away. After
three and half minutes of furious gang
plays, Pooh DeWolfe, playing his first
game of the year, took Conn’s pass,
worked Mumford out of position and
poked the puck into the open net.
With the score now tied, Dalhousie
went to pieces defensively and Lawrence
Ryan and Burgess shot goals, the former
getting two. The Colleyians fought
back gamely but their attacks all came
to grief around the Truro net and the
game ended with no further scoring.

Dal line-up—Goal, Koretsky; defence, Carroll, MacGregor, MacDonald; forwards, DeWolfe, Conn, Mont,

Corston, Buckley, Collins, Irwin, Beer.

SUMMARY
First Period.

1—Truro, Jack Ryan (Cumniings)
qd ;

Penalties— Mont,
White, Truro.

Dalhousie, and

Second Period.

2—Truro, Taylor (Burgess) 2.09.
38—Dalhousie, Conn 8.15.
4—Truro, Biswanger, 11.02.
5—Dalhousie, Buckley (Corston)
15-56.

Third Poxioad

6— Dalhousie, De Wolfe, (Conn) 3.17.
7—Truro, Lawrence 8.02.
8—Truro, Lawrence (Burgess) 17.09.
9—Truro, Kyan (White) 18-14.
10—Truro, Burgess, 19.14.
Penalty—Lawrence, Truro.
Dalhousie—Goal, Koretsky; defence
DeWolfe, Carroll, McDonald; forwards
McGregor, Conn, Mont, Collins, Beer,
Irwin, Buckley, Corston.

Truro—Goal, Mumford; defence, Bis
wanger, Lawrence, Buchanan; forwards, McLean, Ryan, Cummings,
White, Burgess, Taylor, Crowell, Ar
chibald.

following the example of their high flying basketeers batted out an 18-4 victory over the Dentists who were no
match for the Studley crew in the battle of base hits. In the second game
the Meds and the Frosh fought through
4 innings before play was abandoned
with the score standing Meds 14—F rosh
12. There are rumours of protests and
there will probably be some discus
 

The Tigers had the sion before the status of the game,

who won and who lost, if anybody, and
various questions of this nature are
finally decided.

In Tuesday’s games in the Interfaculty Basketball League A & S continued their winning ways by noseing
out the Lawyers 20-16 in a well played
and hard fought game. In the second
game the Dents trimmed the Engineers
to the tune of 18-10.

Radio Hour

Continued from Page 1)

 

MacKeigan the names of Mr. Dickey
and Mr. O'Brien were added to that
list.

The programs will number ten, starting the end of this month and continuing on through February and March.
They will cover such diversified subjects as the viewpoints of students in
Law, Medicine, Dentistry, Arts and
programs presented by the D. A. A. C.,
the Glee Club, Dramatic Society and
others.

Off to such a fine start the Radio
Hour should be a splendid contribution
to the air waves. Nothing so far done,
conveys that lethargic attitude so
typical of Dalhousie’s organizations

 

 

Ring Activities

afternoon saw

a
large contingent of Dalhousians forsake the pen and book for the glove

The lower gym Sat.

and ring. Following the Edinburgh
axiom that a healthy mind necessitates
a healthy body, Boxing Manager Abe
Becker, ably assisted by Milton Lipitz
and Manual Preiss spent the major
part of the afternoon putting the ring
gladiators into condition. Physical,

Director Sven Korning taught the
warriors of the rosin how ‘to take it”
by a rigorous calisthenic workout and

instruction on the heavy bag, punching bag and Indian ciubs, and then
how “‘to give it” by individual training
in the art of self defense.

The task of selecting material for the
intercollegiate boxing team will soon
begin. With McRitchie, heavyweight,
the only title holder remaining from
last year‘s squad Dal’s Intercollegiate
Boxing team of 1938 will be selected
from the crop of contestants that turn
out.

Henry Ballem, lightweight
year’s squad in this workout showed
tremendous improvement and should
do well in the Maritime Boxing Contests as did most of his team mates of
last year.

few other excellent prospects in
the ring were Craig Smith of New York
in the middleweight division and Dick
Davis, in the welterweight. division.
Both these boys looked good, in fact
excellent, in their workout against the
Trial Horse Anthony Minichiello of
Boston,

With a tradition of champions to
uphold, it rests upon the present crop
of students to turn out for the Varsity
Intercollegiate Boxing team. Whether
vou are a stripling of 112 lbs or a hulking six footer of 200 lbs or more there
is a division into which you will fit.

of last

this year, so optimism on the part of | Skill not strength, is the basis of a good

the hopeful has not yet been killed.
—_———-0

Choral Society

Although the H. M.
been dropped the Choral Society
still going to play a large part in future
Glee Club presentations. Their first
presentation: will be in the next Glee
Club show. Present plans for Munro
Day show that the Choral Society will
be the main feature. In addition to
this, plans are being made for the chorus to have an important part in the
C. B. C. Dal programme.

The Pinafore was not called off because of lack of players but because
of lack of time. It would have meant
at least three practices a week. This

 

S. Pinafore has
is

 

The latest Popular Music.

The latest Victor Records.

All Popular Magazines.

All Musical Instruments.

Radios in best makes.

Lending Library of latest
Fiction.

Framed views in Nova Scotia

by McAskill and Graham.

McDonald MusicCo.

40 SPRING GARDEN ROAD.

 

 

Student’s Patronage Appreciated

SHAVES HAIRCUTS
SHOE SHINES
—Good Service—

LORD NELSON HOTEL
BARBER SHOP

A. PUBLICOVER, Prop.

 

j all out Wed. at 8 P. M. and Sat.
2.30 in the lower gvm.

boxer—and skill can be acquired. So,

at

was too too much, especially so after

the Christmas ploughing, so very
regretfully it was decided to let the
big show go for another year. We

would like to thank the many students
who showed their interest and promised their support. We hope that we
won't have to disappoint them next
vear.

:

 

er A RR RR

 

 

January, 21st, 1938

PLAY BEARCATS AT FORUM WEDNESDAY

 

RESULTS
HOCKEY

Truro 7 Dal 3

BADMINTON
M. 0: B.C. 17

INTERFACULTY

SOFTBALL
A&S18 Dent. 4
BASKETBALL

A & S$ 20
Dent. 18
Law 27
Med 15

Dal 3

Law 16
Eng 10
Frosh 19
Eng 10

 

Badminton

The Dalhousie Badminton team
bowed in defeat to the Militia Officers
Badminton Club at the Gym on Wednesday evening by a margin of 17
matches to 18. The nights play produced many hard fought sets and the
issue was in doubt until the last games
got underway.

The visitors carried their margin
by making an almost complete sweep
of the ladies singles, matches, winning
five out of six. The other classes were
much more evenly contested, and all
in all it the best showing our
racqueteers have inade for some time.
The results were

Was

M.0O. B.C. Dal

Men’s sunigles 2 4
Women’s Singles 5 l
Men's Doubles 3 3
Women’s Doubles 4 2
Mixed Doubles 3 3
17 13
~~ —-0

 

Seagull No. 1—-Who won the boat race

down there below us—Harvard or Yale?

Seagull No. 2—Yale just crossed the

line in the lead.

Seagull No. 3 to think |

every thing J had on Harvard!
‘The

—And put

Manitobian"
Caller—Could I speak to Mr. Buff,
the boxer?
Landlady—He ain’t up yet.
nevet rises before the stroke of 10.

He

 

DRUGS

CHOCOLATES

FOUNTAIN

 

MacLeod, Balcom

Limited

 

Nova Scotia Technical College
OFFERS
ENGINEERING COURSES

CIVIL, ELECTRICAL,

MECHANICAL AND MINING.

To Dalhousie Students with Engineering Diplomas.
Modern Equipment, Instructing Staff with Individual
Experience.

Tuition Fee $75.00 per year—Twenty-five Scholarships
of $75.00 each.

Write or call for Calendar or Advice. F. H. SEXTON, Pres.

 

 

GAUVIN AND GENTZEL

Photographers to Dalhousie University

SPECIAL RATES TO |

STUDENTS

81 SPRING GARDEN RD.

24 Hour Finishing Service

 

SEE OUR PICTORIAL WORK
FOR GIFTS

Phone B-6992

 

 

 
