= a a ak a ee — i

  
 
 
    

Frosh Dance
Tonight at
Shirreff Hall

 

 

 

ea HA N.S., OCTOBER 1st, 1937

   

 

  

| Sodas Announce Ambitious S President Bi Bids | Phy sical Director Wolken 4 Students Will Give
_ Programme For Coming Year tudents Welcome, Announces Plans _Team Enthusiastic Support

 

 

Sodales Debating Society this year

 
 
  
  
  
 
 
    

The Editors of The have |

asked me to say a word of welcome |

wazette

Korning, Dal’s new physical

outlined a wide and interest
Sven
instr uctor,

A new edition of the fighting Tigers

 

‘ embarks upon the most extensive Great Loss to the incoming new students in|ing programme to The Gazette repre- Is Mourned will take the. field- tomorrow aftecnoon
‘i program ever attempted in the history Dalhousie. To their request I gladly |sentative yesterday. Stating that he and face Fred Kelly’s Axemen from
‘ of the sotiety. Bearing in mind the accede. ‘thas been favourably impressed with - Wolfville. After Peace weeks of inbah impressive record of previous years, The hospitable spirit of The Gazette|the interest shown by the student tensive training the Gold and Black
EAN tthe executive has striven to find for represents the attitude of the whole body in various forms of physical ruggers feel perfectly confident that
Bis Dalhousie’s orators opposition worthy University. We are not only interested activity hopes for general participation |they can take the measure of their
| of their talents, and has already in you newcomers, we know that on|in the different activities in his pro- collegian foes by a wide margin.
ra opened negotiations for no less than you—your capacities, your outlook, gramme. Decked out in their new uniforms
= nine regular intercollegiate debates your loyalty to high ideals,—the future Mr. Korning will give regular classes they should cut brilliant figures as
of honour standing. ‘These debates welfare of this University largely rests.|jn Danish Gymnastics, a_ specially they drop the dazzled Acadians in
will give an unusual opportunity to In this knowledge, we bid you welcome, developed system of calisthenics, fen- their tracks.

 

  
 

    
 

 
  
  
   
    
  
   
   
   
  
  
   
  
   
 
  
   
   
   
    
  
   
   
 
   
  
   
  
   

_ ship in the society.

those who wish to immortalize themselves as warriors who have upheld
‘the glorious traditions of Dalhousie
against the most skilful adversaries
i femaeebie

» must add to the enviable record

hs national championship adorns the walls
of the Studley library.
~The Model Assembly of the League

of Nations will be held again in the
‘spring, Last yéar’s sessions held in
Halifax were a great success, and
because of the significant develop
We “have. lost
most of our old first line debaters
and new men must be found to carry

on the torch. Remember, Dalhousie,

your university, benefits only as you,
her students, succeed. So let everyone turn out to help carve upon the

_ deathless bronze of history another

epic Sodales chapter. The executive
extends to members of the Freshman
class and all other new students a
special invitation to attend the meetings and join in the discussions. Those
interested in debate and public speaking will receive full information concerning Sodales and will confer a
favour upon the executive by con
sulting Douglas MacKeen at Studley,

or Babbitt Parlee at the Forrest Building.
Everyone out for Sodales!

President to Speak

President Stanley will make

a brief address to the mem| bers of the University at 12
| noon, on Thursday, October
| 7, in the Gymnasium. His
- address will be more especialuj to students—those in the
essional Schools as well as
those i in the Arts and Science

 
 
    
 

f
ms
. o

be

 
  
  
  
   
   
  

 
     
     
 

 
  
 
   
   
  
  
 
  
 
 
   
 
  
 
  

To University

To the Class of 1941—

To you has fallen a heritage, and

who are worth while. We welcome
you—the Class of '41—who are to
succeed to the best Dalhousie has to
ofier.

You will be called upon to accept
many responsibilities as you take
over the guardianship of the several
branches of our student democracy.
The vast multitude of students who
have pyeceded you have set the standard, and have built high and well
around it. Your duty to those who
have gone before, and to those who
are yet to come—is to maintain this
standard or rise above it.

These standards are not in scholarship alone. A full and adequate
college life will carry you beyond the
classroom. There are many organizations and activities that merit your
full cooperation. These are your organizations, for your education, for your
health, for your entertainment and
relaxation. Take advantage of them.

This is your Dalhousie. She will
always be yours, work hard for her,
be loyal to her, cherish her traditions
and ideals, uphold her honour, Criticize her when she is wrong and spend
energies for right.

We are glad you have come to our
college, and wish you a happy and
successful career.

The Council of Students of Dalhousie University again extends its
sincere welcome to you.

G. FRED DAY,
President.

heartily and sincerely.

There are several things
University which are entirely in the
students’ hands. I mention The Sazetie
itself as one example. These have a
high tradition: it is for you to main
in the

cing, boxing, and tumbling and vaulting. He will also introduce European
Handball, a game somewhat similar
to basketball, which he is sure will be
popular. He proposes to take complete charge of track and field activities

{

 

Coaches Rankine and Fletcher speak
| highly of their charges and trainer
Payne was heard to say, ‘Don’t worry,
the boys will be in great shape!” :

Last year the Tigers brought home
to Studley the City League Trophy,

tain the tradition, and to better it if) ang hopes that interest may once emblematic of the Senior Champion
you can, again be built up in. this branch of ship. They fell to Caledonia in their
Personally I wish you every success. sport search for provincial honors, but

ie “eaRLETON Da ae Freshmen and Freshie-Sophs, re- even so one of the most successful

= ety | seasons in college hi

| | Presi ident. (Continued on Page 4) git Era se

a

le is: aed by team officials last bight for the!»
c ia game to-morrow is as follows:

    

x =
== me

_ DOUGALD iieena ved <, v

LL. De

 

| Acadia was conquered in two stirring |

- games, the first at Studley by a score |

‘jof 14-3, while in» the second Dal was
" | held ove" to a 6-3 win, C
‘Their series with a ‘rugged Wander:
; squad amounted almost to the
sensational. Pushed into thc mud
in their first encounter to the tune of

“ a a , ‘ a

’ Fullback Among prominent men associated :

ree! : with Dalhousie to die during the 21.0 the Tigers displayed great reHaines summer was Dr. Macgillivray. Mem- Cuperative powers to come back strong

Halves

Pauker, Kerr, Egan

Forwards

Darrah, C. Smith, Cook, Mushkat, Phillips, Ideson,

 
   
      
 
   

 
   

 
     

  

Hector McInnes, K.

    
 

Scotia,

     
   
  

other executive positions.
Board of Governors of this

19, 1937 at the age of T7 years.
Graduated from Dalhousie Law School in
1888. Member of the Board of Directors of the Bank
of Nova Scotia since the turn of the century, among

Storey

   
  
    
   

C. died in Halifax, June
Native of Nova

    
   
   
  

Was Chairman of the
University at his demise.

  
 
  

    
   
   
  
  

of Queen's.

of the Supreme Court of
Halifax home June 19,

Sir Robert Laird Borden, LL. D. (Dal.) Canada’s
war-time Prime Minister died at his home in Ottawa,
June 10, 1987. Born at Grand Pre,
In 1918 was appointed Chancellor of McGill and
held that office until 1924 when he became Chancellor

Honourable Humphrey Mellish, retired Justice

Native of Prince Edward Island. Graduated from
Dalhousie Law School in 1890.
versity took a keen interest 1n student activities. °

 
 
   
   
   
   
  
   
   
   
  
   
  
   
  

N.S. in 1854.

  
  
  
   
  
  
   
  

Nova Scotia died at his
1937 in his 76th year.

While at the Uni
    

   
  
 

Halifax August 9, 1937.
years ago. The bust of

    
 
  

atures of the authors.
Governors at his death.

   

 
 
  
    

Harry E. Mahon, B.

1875.
Company. At time of his
Board of Governors.

 
    
  
 

 
 

Dougald Macgillivray, LL.

the Earl of Dalhousie, is the gift of Dr. Macgillivray
and in MacDonald library are hundreds of volumes
presented by him and made invaluable by the signWas a member of the Board of

1937 at his home in Halifax.
Was Manager here of the Montreal Trust

  
  
  
  
  
  
    

 

D. (Dal.) died at
Was born in Ontario 75
the University’s founder,

 
  
   

A., LL. B. died April 16,

Born in Halifax in

     
    
  
   

death was a member of the

    

| tically

.| ty

ber of the Board of Governors and

 

Glee Club Asks
Student Support

The Dalhousie Glee and Dramatic

|
and

whole-hearted
to the various student organiza
Our Glee Club was organized
to provide an opportunity for participation in dramatics, choral activities,
dancing, etc. to the mutual enjoyment

the student body whole and
has become an integral factor in our
life. Several three-act and
oneyact plays are produced at
intervals throughout the year followed
iby dancing in the gymnasium, to the
leading orchestra of the city. In fact,
the Glee Club is one of your biggest
campus societies concerned with practhe entire student body. In
order for such a society to function
efliciently, it must receive the hearty
support of its members and one of
the major productions of the year is
the Freshman Show later on in October,
|put on entirely by the freshman class
under capable direction. We look
to the class of 41 for an adequate
turn-out of talent to produce this
when called for and in the meantime
you will have an opportunity to see
a few old-timers in action on the night
of Wed,, Oct. 6th at the first show of
the year for the entertainment especialof the to Dalhousie.
Once again, welcome to the College

support co-operation

tions.

as a

campus
many

 

newcomers

 

by the Sea and the more you put into
the Glee and Dramatic Society, the
more you will get out of college life.

—_—_o—_—_—.

Tomorrow the Tigers play the
first game in defence of their title.

EVERYBODY OUT FOR’ THE
GAME.

 

 

 

and blank the Redmen 3-0. Then
occurred the notorious “protest” game

BE ier Gs: whabent abr oe | Three-quarters public benefactor, his memory will his ‘Dal eso 5 iia
ae ormer y n . eon . f ae f Dal-| Whie al lost 9-6 at Redland. The
, . Smith, Armstrong, Leith, Ross remain long in the minds o a ; : i
until the shield emblematic of the Welcome Frosh ; ’ Macha a final game of this series was tied at

3-all and the League moguls declared
that a playoff would have to be arranged, the winner to take the title
and meet Caledonia. The Gold and
Black surged to victory by a sensational last minute score after spotting
the Wandcrers a _ five

point lead,

ments in Europe and the Far East|by your presence at Dalhousie, you Society takes great pleasure in extend | This, one of the best games seen in

the 1938 meetings should provide acknowledge acceptance of it. This ing a hearty welcom to the class of | Halifax in many years, can be taken
prez even more lively discussion. heritage is no vague and intangible ‘41. May your sojourn at the College |as a striking example of the College
r| Surely, this will be a big year for thing. It is the product of one hun- lby the Sea be a pleasant as well as|spirit that is so necessary to complete
Sodales. There are opportunities for|dred years of effort in the field of REQUIESCANT IN PACE profitable one and that it cannot be|success. It was obtained in the most

us all to profit from active member-|Scholarship and the building of men j}unless you are willing to give your |part by the spectators who cheered

themselves hoarse in driving on the
teain.

They will be out there fighting, but
the scrappy spirit that carried them
to the City League championship in
last year’s campaign will not e
enongh to enable them to rise to similar
heights. A full turn-out of the student

|'body and their enthusiastic backing

will supply the necessary drive. The
fact that they are City League Champions cannot pull a victory out of the
fire but with all Dalhousians cheering
them on and the now famous Band
playing lustily, there is little doubt
but that they will come through with
a win,

A Tea Dance after the game will
aid in the general success, so let’s see
everybody out and make it Dalhousie’s
Day.

Positions On The Staff

Editorial and other appointments to The Gazette have not
yet been completed.

Applications from those who
have a leaning towards conducting columns, humorous,
er otherwise—in fact anyone
with ideas which will better
The Gazette is requested to see
the Editors as soon as possible.

Come early and avoid the
rush,

é

 
A.B. MACKENZIE.

 

  
  

azette

GAZETTE STAFF. }

Editors.
E. F. MERCHANT.

B-3824, B-0254.

Associales.

Babbitt T. Parlee, B. A. Roland Hurst.

Leonard Kitz. John Dickie, B. A. Peggy Merkel.
a Business Managers.
GORDON K. DALEY, B. Com. R. L. ARMSTRONG, B. A.
B-5700. B-5700.
News Editor.
RICHARD MURPHY.
B-2427,

ANOTHER YEAR

_ In this, the first issue of the year, The Dalhousie Gazette
- takes the opportunity of greeting all students who are entering
the University for the first time. . Es

Another college year is commencing which, in our sight,
holds as much promise of success as any in the past. The Freshmen appear to have equal qualifications to the incoming classes
of preceding years and it is to them we dedicate this issue of The
Gazette in the sincere hope that they will measure up to the highest
standards_of Dalhousie. aa
7 The majority of you arrive inexperienced and uninitiated in
the ways of a university life and it is for you that we offer the
truism that you can get as much out of a college career as you
put into it. Throw yourselves wholeheartedly into all activities
and gain a much fuller development both physically and mentally
Do not devote all your energies to any one phase, but rather
endeavour to gain a wider conception by taking part in as many
extra-curricular activities as possible, but not to the exclusion of
normal work and study. Your chief aim in entering college is
to acquire a complete education but do not lose sight of the fact
that the educated man is the fully developed man.

Dalhousie is fully equipped for all tastes—its libraries are
sufficiently stocked to satisfy any desire—its gymnasium is considered the finest in Eastern Canada—its very location is unrivalled for all visitors comment favourably on it and are loud
in their praise of the campus and its surroundings. The correct

use of these and other advantages cannot fail to give a young

person the knowledge and experience to carry them through. an
entire lifetime. Above all do not hesitate to consult the professors
who are placed in a university for purposes of advice as well as
‘uction. | They will be only too glad to help you out in any
Ossible if you are in a quandary. — eis
sion support all student activities to the best of
oe “lub, Sodales and the Gazette; turn out
a In this -way you can

    
     
   
  
  
 

nd sodial functions.

r rt ‘, 2 : Ore . :
DEATHS OF PROMINENT MEN

ne i P = a oa = #

ca % ™
+ acd oh

- - The beginning of a new college year turns the minds of students
and graduates alike to the many changes which time brings in
the ranks of those associated with the University.

During the last few months these alterations have been many
and sad. Death has claimed men who had given years of service
to Dalhousie and who had carried her name to lofty eminences
in the public and professional life of Canada. To name only a
few of these, the better known, is to make an impressive list of
personages whose places will be most difficult to fill. Sir Robert
Laird Borden, LL. D., one-time Prime Minister of Canada; the
Honourable Humphrey Mellish, retired Justice of the Supreme
Court of Nova Scotia; Hector McInnes, K. C., Chairman of the
Board of Governors, and distinguished figure at the Bar of Nova
Scotia; Dougald Macgillivray, LL. D., and Harry E. Mahon,
B. A., LL. B., outstanding business men and friends and Governors
of the University.

The work these men have done for Dalhousie will live after
them, perpetuated in the buildings erected during their period of
service, but more than that stamped upon the characters of the
students who have passed through the halls in that time.

After all, the worth of any institution of learning can be
measured solely by the-stature achieved by those who hold its
degrees. If we who complete our courses in future years but
carry with us a sense of public duty such as has animated our
predecessors, then, indeed, Dalhousie’s purpose will have been
achieved.

THE GAZETTE

The Editorship of The Gazette this year has fallen into new
- hands and to-day’s issue is the first to be published under the new
management. :

During the past several years the paper has been steadily
mounting in excellence as a student publication and the 1936-37
Gazette was no exception to the rule.

And so it is that this sheet has a high standard to maintain,
a standard set by “The oldest college paper in America’’ during
its sixty-six years of publication.

The Gazette is the official student organ on this campus and
its chief duty and aim is to reflect student opinion. Together

with this it was first organized as a medium through which students
could express themselves and at the same time endeavour to
perfect their literary efforts, With this in mind it is seen that
it depends on the students themselves to maintain for their publication the quality of other years. And, therefore, we ask you,
especially you who are entering this university for the first time,
to support your College and to contribute to The Gazette.
| Though the responsibility of The Gazette officially rests
with the editors as invested in them by the Council of Students,
it also rests to a large degree with every man and woman enrolled
in the undergraduate and professional schools of Dalhousie. It
is your Paper and your University and the latter is often judged
by the former. :
_ Every university student must needs have some degree of
literary effort, however small. So send in your contributions and
endeavour to have this year’s Gazette at the peak of the ascending

graph.

: (™. 4 ee pen A temmray 
‘'*,

i>
A

et < "a ; BE

py tie eA
J %, a ac aie
= es ae

ae Sy

   
    

    
    

Rio ‘
ote er as A s
Pe

te and substantial education for which you

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Fantasy - - Fancy ) Sry, The

and

Fact

With war raging in Spain and China
fears are rampant that one of these
conflicts might spread itself into worldwide scope. The mighty region of
North China is a huge field for any
journalist to cover. Shanghai with
colourful copy of the International
Settlement besides its convivial bars
and comfortable quarters has been
the subject of three-quarters of the
stories of the Oriental struggle. However at the real seat of war Japan is
consolidating tremendous gains.

In this struggle incidents have
developed with fearful rapidity. Injury and death of foreign nationals
reached a climax with the Sarajevolike wounding of England’s foreign
ambassador to China, Sir Hughe
Montgomery Knatchbull-Hugessen.

Likewise in Spain Italy, Germany,
and Russia have made scant secret of
their assistance to the warring factions.
What the nationality of the so-called
pirate submarine of last week’s notoriety was the writer can but hazard
a guess drawn from the current periodicals. It is not going too far, however
to surmise that England and the
Continental powers with their highly
developed secret agents and many
sources of information do know, It
is highly probable they do.

Deduction.—If the powers concerned have not seen fit to declare
war yet, with such a multitude of
opportunities, the world seems safe
till the present phase, at least, is over.

A situation which would have made
the team of Gilbert and Sullivan smile
in delight has arisen recently in Alberta.
The province, as the rest of the provincial powers, has no jurisdiction in
banking fields of law. Alberta however, recently passed legislation in
violation of that law. After some
delay, prompted by strategical purposes, the federal government issued
an order that the law was ultra vires
that is, the law is void because the
body that made the law had not the
necessary status to consider such a
regulation.

Developments grew apace. Finally,
Premier Aberhart cried, in effect,
“We will not recognize the fact that
you will not recognize our legislation.”

Such an outlook, of course, strikes
against the primary roots of Confederation itself.

The writer has visualized the following, as happening somewhere in Alberta:

Dramatis Personae

BRE. PICTO sn. 0c. Aodk 5 Premier Aberhart
The Villain. .Prime Minister MacKenzie King

The Villain’s Cohort... .
Finance Minister Dunning
Gere i ie es seve The Alberta Cabinet
Scene
A wheatfield in Alberta.
Time.

The Fall of 1937.

Prime Minister King and Finance
Minister Dunning are holding a con
sultation with the Alberta Government. The Cabinet are joyous and
noisy. Accosting the visitors, Premier

Aberhart speaks:

Prem, Aberhart.—
“We always listened
With obedient attention
To your Statutes and Strictures
Your Laws and your Dictums
But we'll no further bother
With your Regulations
We'll make our Enactments at

home.”

Dunning (Leering)—
“You'll soon come a-crying
For our bounties be begging
Our policeing be pleading
Our subsidies be seeking.

Chorus (with riotous laughter, ignor
ing him, chant in high glee)—

“We'll make our enactments
Right here in Alberta.
St. James Street with pain
And Sir Henry with shame
Can think in reflection
May rue their suggestion
Of the nineteen and twenties
That even Alberta,
Our lovely Alberta,
That far-flung Alberta,
Should have expensive big railways
Have costly big trains.

(Continued on page 8)

  

 

 

  

“ey, st =

COMMENTS ON COMMERCE

Many students, past and present,
are disturbed by the rumours prevalent as to the fate of the Department
of Commerce. Our beloved ‘‘Big Jim”
follows former Dean Syd Smith to
new fields in the West—our best
wishes go with him. But no one
seems to know who, if anybody, will
succeed him. No one seems to know,
indeed, whether or not there will be
any Depattment of Commerce at
Dalhousie.

The University authorities’ reply to
all queries—‘We do not know’—is
fully as unsatisfactory as Rockefeller’s
famous answer to the Senate Committee inquiring into his trusts—“I do
not remember’. On present knowledge, it would not seem unreasonable
to say that students and alumni
deserve the truth. A modern university is not a fascist state—administrative officers are to guide and lead,
not to dictate. Students and alumni
are in the final analysis the integral
part of the University. May we,
then, without being charged with
tmpudende, ask the Board of Governors that the final decision be announced as soon as possible?

If the Board allows Commerce to
lapse what reasons can they assign
lor the move? As far as wecan see
the only possible reasons must be one
of, or a combination of, the following:
(1) Financial); (2) Inabilit'y to find a
qualified professor; or (3) The conclusion that Commerce should not be
taught in a college like Dalhousie.
The first, on present information, we
may lightly discard—last year there
was a_ relatively large enrolment;
higher fees than in Arts were charged;
a large endowment exists earmarked
for Commerce, If cost were the sole
objection, a campaign for funds would
be a solution more logical than the
abolition of the Department. The
second possible reason is on its face
absurd.

In dealing with the third possible
reason for abolition we are on disputed
ground. Suppose we attack the problem by presuming that the departments of the social sciences and our
new Institute of Public Affairs are
of value. Then let us remember
that a Commerce student takes virtually the same course in the first
two years as any Arts student and
that in his last two years he only
takes six Commerce courses, most of
which are really Economics courses.
Considering these facts, how can we
possibly conclude that there is no
plade for a Department of Commerce
in a modern university which tries
to prepare students for modern life?
If the Commerce course in the past
was not all that it might be (and this
is a debatable point), renovation of
the cirruculum and not abolition is
the remedy—never throw out the
baby with the bath-water!

Whatever decision the Board of
Governors reaches we may be sure
that it will not be reached without
careful deliberation and will be wellfounded. What we do ask, however,
is that a decision be announced soon,
together with the reasons behind it
if any change be made.

DALHOUSIE
STUDENTS
THE
CAPITOL
THEATRE

WELCOMES
YOU AND
WISHES YOU

A SUCCESSFUL
COLLEGE YEAR

 

 

 

 

October Ist, 1937

 

“What are you fussing about now?”
“Well, | can't remember where | packed my Sweet Caps!”

SWEET CAPORAL CIGARETTES

“The purest form in which tobacco can be smoked.” —L-ancet |

 

25 Years a

STUDENTS’ BARBER

Patronized by Doctors and
Professors

THOMAS WALLAGE |

SONS and DAUGHTERS

SIGHT SPECIALISTS

LADIES HAIR BOBBING
RAZOR HONING

 

Y. M. C. A. BUILDING
Halifax, N. S.

OAK HALL BUILDING
Sydney, N. S.

 

JACK MITCHELL, Prop.
41 SPRING GARDEN RD.

 

 

Blakeley’s Restaurant

BIRKS--
Extends a cordial Wel- A hearty welcome to

come both to the old and

: Dalhousians, New and
new Dalhousie Students. Old!
; a
Birks extend a cordial inMay you have a successful hie

year. vitation to all students to
a visit their store and become ,
Sie

acquainted with the service "ald

When HUNGRY offered.

patronize the Dalhousie
Restaurant

BLAKELEY’S

43 Spring Garden Rd.

Henry Birks & Sons

Limited
Diamond Merchants

Barrington St.

 

 

Smooth as a Kitten’s Ear. . .

‘““SMOOTH”’ is the word that best describes
the styles and patterns of our new fall suits
and overcoats, and this also applies to the
hats, shirts and neckwear being shown for

the season’s opening—

NEW STUDENTS come ‘‘Where the College

Men Congregate’’ for distinctively styled

clothes for young men.

Shane’s Men’s Shop

30 Spring Garden Rd.

 

Discount of 10% to Dalhousie students on most lines.

 

 
 

   

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE Page Three

 

| Get the Pen ‘That Won't Run Dry )
hoes im olaeee _— Exams sam

es nies Band — |Dalhousie A.A. Cc ChangesinFaculty; Delta Gamma

   

of Sears
° done last yedr can go on.

* “The ba ee ehters another year |
Ee active life this week. The organiza
ThesDy ‘Ay A, OC: Searels to carry
on the work of furthering athletics

Since the last issue of the Gazette

there have been numerous changes

  

~ With another term here the first
thing to think of is new material, new

Sy worked up last year has many|at the University. This year it is|in the Academic Staff of the University.|;ideas, new faces; and as the Delta
x, its old members back, but wants|hoped that trips may be arranged} The Medical School, more thanany|Gamma meets the Freshettes on

y interested student who plays
iy ibebranient to turn out. This is
in order that the work

The first practice of the year is to

for nearly every sport under’ the
control of this body and in this way
both the athletics and the University
will benefit. Much of the success
of the D. A. A. C. in carrying out its

  

 

 

other Department of the University,
has benefitted by these changes.

In Anatomy, Dr. Richard L. deC.
H. Saunders has been appointed Assistant Professor. Dr. Saunders comes

Friday their officers will be introduced
to them, This, of course; includes the
officers of the D. G. A. C. Any girl
interested in a particular sport will
then know who to see.

 

 

    
  

 

  
 

 

; be held on Wednesday, Sept. 29. |sporting programme depends on the|of a family of teachers and doctors:| Both the tennis and ground hockey

* i Another on Friday, Oct. 1, in the|cooperation of the student body as a|He graduated from the Medical School |teams need new members, so let’s see | Seperate acer: |. RR “Se |
ee Gym at 7.30 p. m., and another on| whole; that is the students not par-|of the University of Edinburgh and |all Freshettes out in good style:- The
_ ‘Saturday at 1.00 o'clock before the |ticipating in sports must turn out and|has since been lecturing there. _|tennis team is to meet ACADIA
me. ‘ game. support their teams. It isa recognized| Dr. R. D. H. Heard has been ap-| Saturday at Halifax, Oct. 7, and later
iB a + The band will, as last year, play |fact that a large group of loyal sup-| pointed Assistant Professor in Bio-| Mount Allison at Sackville on Thanks
"at football, hockey, and basketball} porters is a big factor in overcoming | chemistry. He obtained his Bachelor |giving weekend. The girls are daily | Pier SG pe Re Bee lle
.. _ games, and there will be rehearsals|stiff opposition. If the athletes are|and Master degrees at Toronto. Later] practising on the Carleton Tennis

every week. willing to put their time and energy|he obtained his Doctor’s degree at| Courts. Irene Pentz will be manager.

yess With the passing of the band con-|into playing the sport itself, the|the University of Manchester working] The ground hockey team, if there

x i ers by the Students’ Council |remainder of the oe, ak aga under the well known Biochemist, ee aoe of girls ce aN
as ast year, it is now possible to win a|be more than willing to do its bit and| Prof. H. S. Raper. He has since]out will play the usual games with the : s
—— *D" for band work. appear on the Spiele and encourage | worked at the Gatveuhe of Oxford | Halifax Ladies College and Edgehill. The Revolutionary Pen with
co Tf you play an instrument, get in|them. In the past few years Dal-|and at Toronto where he had obtained| Both these schools have had about TM soe S, GE fi
ae touch with anv of the members of the|housians have not supported their|a grant from the Banting Research }two weeks practise and so are bound Lhiition hfe f
"~~ band committee—C. J. Egan, B. 3551,|teams to the fullest extent and the| Foundation. Dr. Heard comes to Dal-|to be in better shape but we can give y
nt Cameron Annear, B. 4279, or Jack|D. A. A. C. asks that every non- | housie highly recommended. them a great battle. Allison Conrad Stop today at any good pen counter and see
a Dacey, B. 3738, saying what instru-|playing student turn out and do their In the Department of Physiology, | will probably coach the team. the Parker Vacumatic—a princely pen that
re ment you play, and whether or not|bit of shouting. Dalhousie has a}|Dr. Rhoda Grant has been appointed| The Delta Gamma will hold its does ae no other Pee See do.
| _© you have it with you, or else come | fine'reputlation on the playing field and|as Assistant. At McGill, Dr. Grant | first formal meeting at Shirreff Hall bee at eae
, down to the Gym to a practise as|every effort must be made to keep| obtained her B. A., majoring in Chem-|the first of the month. The freshettes Le ehaeie whew to eohibe heemelone that takes 4
aa soon as you can. it up. istry and Biology, and later her M. A., | will be initiated and a committee for runs dry in classes or exams.
ey, (Continued on Page 4) in Biochemistry. Her doctor’s degree {the annual tea dance will be arranged The world’s smartest style—Parker’s exclu
a, also came from McGill, this time] This tea dance, which is held at the sive laminated Pearl and Jet—wholly original.
E obtained in Experimental Medicine | Hall, is put on by the girls for charity. And not merely modern in style, but modern
E F r eshmen P rog ramme Dr. Grant has also worked in the | In the past it has been a very enone a Seanoukae pie can a a oH |
laboratories of the Universities of |event, and there is no reason why Som: earlier types, whetiaathey have a rib- : |
Columbia, Graz, and London. She/| it should not be so again. ber ink sac or not. A patented invention—
aa Members of the Freshmen Class| President Walker of King’s will con-| has lately been assistant and demon- set GUARANTEED mechanically perfect. HOLDS ee
‘ are in for a merry week of it. The | duct the service. strator in the Departments of Physiology _ Once you try this pediarcen Ecauty, with MORE | |
ie Sophomore Initiation committee in} On Monday evening the Frosh will | at Toronto and McGill Universities. Fantasy Fancy and slag att duomencphore geet eee ge ne ar .
its effort to give the Frosh a real|be the guests of the Casino Theatre| Dr. C. W. Taylor has been appointed Fact . see and try it today. The Parker Fountain
pe welcome to the College by the Sea|while the Capitol management have | Assistant Professor in Pathology for ac Pen Co., Limited, Toronto.

a has arranged a week of bang-up|offered to do the hondurs for Tuesday |the present year. Dr. Taylor has (Continued from Page 2) Makers éf Citak. the new poudlents= ‘
= entertainment. evening. . had a distinguished career in the ing writing ink. 15¢, 25¢ and up. '
eS ” This evening the Frosh will attack! Wednesday evening has been set | laboratories, hospitals and medical Mack. King (walking forward, the
esi ; Shirreft Hall for the first time. Thejfor the first Glee Club show—an|school of Birmingham. He is highly | Cabinet regarding him warily)— THAN OUR 4

Frosh can take Kevin Meagher’s word |event staged in honour of this year's|spoken of by the Pathology Depart- “The Radio Corporation with FAMOUS DUOFOLD

 

   
 

f ‘ng
Bea
y

St _ cheering Dal on to victory.
_ —Axemen will be out-hollered on Saturea bea afternoon—or else.

hinge «

‘ae

for it, “It'll be a lovely party.”
Saturday afternoon every last Fresh
man will be in the Studley stands

Those

   
 
  

ett al aie: A. A. Ci. is
ihe tea Gitice. Mics start,

=

   

     
   
 
 

A go to a religious service
inthe King’ s se gavel.

iar “‘Hello .

Freshmen shall during the period of initiation spend at least
five minutes daily in the Dalhousie University Store; 15 minutes
in the MacDonald Library and half an hour in the Gymnasium.
This regulation has been made to acquaint you with the three
major points of interest at Dalhousie.

Z n Sur nday evening: when.
rateenble at the Dalhousie

Freshmen Regulations
Freshmen shall, during the period of initiation speak to every

upperclassmate he or she meets on the Campus.
- man or Freshette will address the upperclassmate with the famil
Frosh.

Thursday evening the Student's
Council will throw their monster
dance in the Gymnasium. Every student in this university has an invitation.

On Saturda'y afternoon Dalhousie
| will have another football battle on
her hands. Once again the Frosh will
predominate, 
And the big show will wind up on
Wednesti Ay, October 18th, when ‘the
Sophomores entertain with the FreshieSoph dance. And if present plans

are effected it will be some party!

2

The said Fresh
greatest indifference
Will omit atmospheric pressure of
prairie significance
In awful aloofness,
passing by
In Alberta regions will their noses
stick high. 7
(The Cabinet have fallen
nervous silence)
Only empty desolation
Will give implication
On the maps where Alberta’
Should rightly be stationed!
Prem, Aberhart (stepping forth boldly,
with arms upraised in defiance) souts—
“Our wants and our wishes we'll
well satisfy
Your threats and your warnings

ment of the University of Birmingham.

Mr. William G. Doré comes to
Dalhousie to fulfill duties as lecturer
in the Botany Department. Mr. Dore
has received his education at Queen’s
University taking honours in Chemistry and biology, and later at MacDon- |
ald College and _ McGill. He has
since worked at the Central Experimental Farm, Ottawa.

Mr. Sven Korning of Copenhagen,
Denmark has been appointed. gymnastic instructor. He passed through
the. Danish Gymnastic Institute, with
high honours. He then took a further
course at Niels Bukh High School of
Gymnastics. He has since acted as
instructor at the University of Copenhagen and in London. Mr. Korning -we hereby defy.
replaces Mr. W. E. Stirling who Chorus (as the curtain falls, in a
tendered his resignation during the | mocking crescendo of voices)—
summer months. “For Federal follies, injunctions,

Professor R. A, MacKay, Eric enactments ;
Dennis Memorial Professor of Govern- We'll not give a fraction of eightyment and Political Science, will be cent wheat.
absent on leave from Dalhousie Uni- So leave our Alberta,
versity this year in order to attend to Alberta
his duties on the Royal Commission take from
rea Dominion and Provineial Aflairs. Federal seat!
His place will be taken by Escott
Mr. Reid graduated
| with first class honours in Political

my planes

into a

our lovely

Alberta

And your

                

Welcome to

 

 

 

 

 

   

 

 
 

PA,

SS VACUNATI CSS
GUARANTEES MECHANICALLY PERFECT
Senior-$ 10; Junior-$5——Pencils to match, $2.50, $3.50 and $5

  

Student's Patronage Appreciated
SHAVES - HAIRCUTS
SHOE SHINES

—Good Service—

MARTIN’S

on SPRING GARDEN RD.
WELCOME the old
and new studentsas hereLORD NELSON HOTEL
BARBER SHOP

A. PUBLICOVER, Prop.

tofore.

With your co-operation we
will defeat the Reds.

ZIPPER CASES -ALL SIZES MADE TO YOUR ORDER
At Reasonable Prices

 

 

 

 

* | Science from Toronto University, win- . d
Freshmen are obliged to supply all upperclassmen with a ]|/ning many scholarships. Rhodes Dalhousie Stu ents KE LLY S Ef oD

ie match upon request. Scholar from Ontario, 1927, he won Ea. =

| further scholarships in Oxford, and Try Our T 4 118 GRANVILLE ST.

; Freshmen will be compelled to attend all meetings held for graduated there, 1929. From 1930 Py Re: * QRate
Pe them. Attendance will be taken and whether it be a business to 1982 he held a RockefellerFounda- Hot Dogs & Hamburgers ij
oe meeting, theatre party or dance, the absentee will be severely tion Fellowship. Secretary of the ae ‘
- dealt with. Canadian Institute of International
+s | : Affairs, he has written many articles Evangeline Tea Room When You Need

Pe ge Freshmen shall wear the regalia provided for them by the on politics and international affairs in + *

” Sophomore committee everywhere within the borders of the Cam- Canadian, American and British re- 563 Spring Garden Rd. DRUGS MEDICINES PRESCRIPTIONS
a . f 3 pus. view S. ee meee peeeaea ea et ee ee a
~ auieceiaie . a ; . or any other Drug Store Merchandise
ib c Freshmen shall link themselves with at least one of the follow- Vee wae inttnr SERVICE ay VALUE

. ing Dalhousie student organization—
Hl ; ; ja 3
! Balispaal es Caxotte, A Message to College Men--- at KINLEY’S DRUG STORES
i Dalhousie Glee Club.
i? a ‘ Dalhousie Band.

 

Sodales Debating Society.

Whether buying a life insurance policy as a

 
       
       
    
  

   

 

 

 

Ss ee a ee

1

Pea lti...

 
 
   

      

 

 
   
 

 

oe = Freshmen shall make an effort to contact some official of the |. ee .
a organization in which he or she is interested and offer his or her | Provision ton the future, or contemplating .: A S IN O
& services. the selling of life insurance as a profession, you No Good Reason ,
i ‘ :
a Failure to comply with the above set of regulations will in- would do well to consider the outstanding Thres Dave Starting Secure
. volve the offender in a set of very unpleasant consequences. Alibis sixty-seven year record of The Mutual Life There is no good reason why da _ nto bar —
: ; . ; ee Ag yO e
_S. and excuses will avail you little. Your punishment lies in the ‘ : you should not make The
or _ hands of the Sophomore Initiation Committee. of Canada. Communicate with our nearest Green Lantern YOUR Rest- “THEY GAVE
vg Ae . aurant or Tea Room. They
, 7 Signed Branch Manager or our Home Office. ees HIM A GUN”?
| | THE SOPHOMORE INITIATION COMMITTEE. SE Sep eer with
| uy U | r U A L A i A VERY CAPABLE STAFF
| The Sophmore Initiation Committee would appreciate the OF CANADA. TASTY FOODS and SPENCER TRACY
co-operation of the student body in carrying out the list of regula- API PI Ts D GLADYS GEORGE
| tions. The idea of having the freshmen speak to the upperclass- easant Place Ta Dine
_ men has been made to establish a quick acquaintance between ESTABLISHED 1869. FRANCHOT TONE
both groups. Let’s have your co-operation. Owned by the Policyholders
eS , ; The Green Lantern EXTRA—Robert Benchley
ar HOME OFFICE—WATERLOO, ONT. “How To Start A Day”
i é'
nN
; si Jeet
of fo :

 

ete dod a?
  
   

‘ one
vs,

Acadia ;

"Sat. 3 p.m,
at

Studley

Stellar Players
- Strengthen Team

| - With the opening matches of the

Maritime _ Intercollegiate Tennis
ais Championships now only about three
weeks away, Dalhousie’s prospects
. for the successful defence of her title
seem very bright even though about
half the team hds not returned to
‘college. Of last year’s men four are
back again, Bliss Murphy, Harry
Grant, Babe Stewart, and Karl Garten,
with Eddie Cohn and Ed Stewart
lost through graduation. However,
“newcomers in the persons of Hugh
Little, present provincial junior titleholder, Gordon Hennigar, Lee Hutton,
and Bob Dimock will amply fill their
“places.

The girl’s team has bieh hit much
harder. Only two, Irene Pentz and
Zylpha Linkletter have returned with
Vivian Douglas graduating, Jamesie
Crease deserting Dal for Acadia, and
Mickey Garten taking up nursing.
For their places no prospects have
as yet shown themselves, although
Manager Henry Reardon expects that

 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 

iS i with the beginning of regular practices
| ——sihe:~will be able to find enough good
as Fo material among the new students to
FS. fil: outs a strong team. - Prof.):C.:.H.

  
  
 

pari Mercer will, as in former sept again
Rae pesume. aco duties.

i ey ina:

 

 
  

*,

. we :

“aa assets ES i.
re ter feat yeni Bia cam| paigns in the. Halifax City ~Senior
gue and the Inter-Collegiate League
_ Da lousie’s hockey teams are looking
ie os, forward to even better things durian

the coming winter.
ee, mY Both the Senior and Inter-Collegiate
squads have suffered heavy losses in
PEs personell since the close of play last
phe season. Such stars as John Carroll,
--- Don MacGregor, Eddie Cohn, “Pooh”
_- - DeWolfe, Jack Buckley, Bill Napier,
ar John Dickey and “Tiger” Veniot will
snot carry the Gold and Black into the
hockey wars this year—all of these
were important factors in last year’s
successes and will be sorely missed

when the season gets underway.

- The members of last year’s squad

who will answer the call again this

-_-year however, form a nucleus around

Ce which can be built two very strong

= teams. ‘Corky’ Koretsky, Ken Beer,

- Jimmy Graham, Jim Mont, Harvey

Conn, John Mullane, Bob Corston

and Bob Marshall are players of

_ ability and experience proved to Dalhousie fans in past seasons.

Among this year’s new arrivals
at Dalhousie are three forwards who
will add plenty of punch to Dal’s
attack. They are Jack Kerr who
: comes from Mount Allison with a
, fine hockey record, Hugh Little, last
year a star on Upper Canada College's
junior team, 4nd Doug MatDonald,
former St, Francis Xavier inter-collegiate star. - ts Pt Ftr:

All the indications point to another

 

hs v

1
—
~

AP ipiet ss
4 _

[3

 

. successful season” for Dal’s hockey
. teams if proper coaching can be
ote’ obtained. . neers

_ _ Veterans Return

Bo To Mt. A. Squad

iouat Allison University Rugby
~ squadcoached by “Bob” Brodie, has
} i> 3 peed turning out regularly for the past
pe a Fhereek: A survey of the team shows

ys

" nine members of last year’s squad
Baty are back on the campus. They are
oH kk Rus Johnston, Lennoxville Que., Cap
? Re tain of this year's: squad, Bill Cum
  
  
 
  
  
 
  

F : ae Sackville;| Ken» Somer, Yarmouth;

Ralph O'Brien, Beaver Harbor, N. B.;

py he Springhill;- Henry

Blanchard, Truro; Bob. Copp, Port

- Elgin, ‘N. B,; and Archie Cameron,
ails Stellarton.

   

old stand and

ie For Coming Year

 

vi mings, New Glasgow; John Bigelow, |

 

Sport Sagas

y
ROLAND HURST

Well here we are right back at the
open for business.
Yes, I know, you were hopin’.

 

To come to football. And by the
way don’t forget the big game on
Saturday when the City League champs
of Dalhousie University line up against
those vicious Axemen from Acadia.

The mewling Tiger will come out
of his den attractively decked out in
new stripes. As Bernie would say
the new uniforms are “the mosta of
the besta.”

And there'll be some new faces
shining when the Tigers take the
field too. Coach Johnny Rankine
has gotta get someone to fill the
blanks left vacant by old Man Graduation’s withdrawal of Hal Connor,
Doug Crease, Jack Buckley, Pat
Gunter and Ike Mercer. Squank Dougan will be among the missin’ as will
also Pooh DeWolfe.

“Fighting Pooh’? won’t answer the
call when the whistle blows this year.
The fighting forward who made himself so popular with football experts,
will stick to law this year. Well,

 

|maybe, but here’s hopin’ he'll change is
| his mind.

It’s practically “sure that Prof.
Fletcher will call Gordon Darrach
out of retirement for the big opener.

to his credit, so we ‘re informed i is in the
Med School and it’s a break for the
Tigers. ~

 

= mmm

Just who else will get the call is a
big question mark. Dr. Johnny Rankine, the man whose driving’ the
Tigers through their paces won't talk.

A welcome to Sven Korning. This
columnist wishes you all the luck in
the world.

Prospects for a championship team
of racqueteers for Dalhousie have
been considerably brightened with
the registration of Hugh “Spark Plug”
Little and Gordon ‘Goey” Bauld.

Already we've dubbed Little “Spark

Plug” and when the hockey season
rolls around you'll see the reason why.

And here’s some dope. The Yanks
have the World Series jn the bag right
now. Yes, sir,
on the road back the boys have been
packing for the big trip back to the
bushes. The Giants will line up
against the Yanks to make it a battle
of New York once more. Of course
the Cubs have an outside chance,
but that chance is like the most of
Bob Feller’s hooks, it’s too far outside.

Physical Innstructor
Announces Plans

(Continued from Page 1)

quired by a University regulation to
take physical training, will .find a
systematic and interesting programme
of exercise and sport mapped out for
them.

Asked as to what particular cooperation he expected from the student
body, Mr. Korninhg stated that first
of all he would require strict observance of the gymnasium regulations.
Secondly he hoped that all students
would participate regularly in some
form of physical activity and thirdly
he hoped to see a large number take
up up Danish Gymnastics as they
are a particularly good form of training
for all sports,

—-O—__ ——
FRESHMEN ON PARADE

A group of Dalhousie freshmen and
freshettes got “under the skin” of
tram car operators and motorists: last
night, They. paraded down Oxford
Street, blocking the traffic from Spring
Garden Road to Quinpool Road for
almost a half hour,

Darrach who has already two degrees

since Goméz started”

DALHOUSIE GAZ ETTE —

ts a AVOURED | TO (O RETAIN

FRESHMEN EDITION

 

 

Although this is not a picture of the new Dalhousie Rugby Tjeam, some of the faces shown

be out on the field to-morrow.

morrow are Bob Armstrong and Syd Pauker.

labouring to produce a championship outft.

 

Guidance For
Freshman Class

‘Is it really that college spirit at
Dalhousie is deplorable, or is it that
the students are too lazy? We are
inclined to think it is the latter. Is it
that they just can't be bothered to
turn out to support their classes,
their societies and their tcams or are
they really not interested?

After the first year how many
attend class meetings, class games or
even class parties and pay their dues?
It is said that classes are run by
‘cliques, but if these same few people
did not turn out where would the
class be, as the rest of the members
seem to take no interest whatsoever.

The societies lack enthusiastic and
wholehearted support. A few, and
it must be noted the same few, take
an active part. Most people come to
college with the idea of joining many
of the clubs, but after a few weeks of
college life those ideas seem to be
relegated to the scrap heap of other
such ideas and» students care nothing
except for dances, sleep and the odd
bit of work now and then.

In -thletiés the sam lack of zeal
is noted, that is, all except football.
How: many turn out to watch hockey
games unless there is a compensation
of an hour's free skating afterwards,
The number of spectators at a basketball game is pitiful. How can the
students expect “their teams to do
their best when they receive so little

support.

If we want Dalhousie to take her
place with the colleges of today, to be
active, alive and* to show a_ keen
interest in everything, then, we, the
students, must show more college
spirit as the life of a college rests with
us.

Scene pean cian

FLASH—Is Ballem studying Biology
or Anatomy so assiduously over there
on Oakland Road?

Pa nhf

The latest Popular Music.

The latest Victor Record

All Popular Magazines.

All Musical Instruments.

Radios in best makes.

Lending Library of latest
Fiction.

- Framed views in Nova Scotia
by McAskill and Graham.

 

 

McDonald MusicCo.

40 SPRING GARDEN ROAD,

 

* DALHOUSIE VS. ACADIA

The Acadia Senior football team
will clash with Dalhousie tomorrow
afternoon at Studley. Last year the
Tigers swept the series, and again
they are confident that victory will
reward their efforts. The boys have
been practising faithfully and _ the
teams that line up tomorrow will be
worthy of all the support our student
body can give. There will be a Tea
Dance after the game in the Gymnasium. Your Council ticket will
get you a seat in the bleachers so let’s
see everyone out to aid in a Dalhousie
victory.

Did You Hear?

(A two line poem)

 

Nice and tall
Black hair and all.

.There’s a new
Last year
its
par ticulars

Extra). 4).Eextra....
romance on the Campus.
it blossomed. This year in
full bloom. For inquire
from Peggy Merkel or Gordon Thompson,

out

Seen Tuesday evening Kevin
Meagher and he was singing, ‘Every
time it rains it rains, pennies from

Heaven.” ‘I hope, I hope, I hope!”
“S. W.” Ross has been very quiet
all summer.
Be careful girls.”
Camp for sale: Apply E. B. Barn
hill, alias the Dictator. The Dictator
in stating his opinion of the camp says
from experience it’s suitable for ‘almcst’
anything.

Flash Murray Gould versus Verna
Moore. The affair took at
Surveying Camp. Gould goes to Truro
twice weekly now.

place

Reports have it that the boys did
quite a bit of ‘gallivantin’ up at the
Surveying Camp. Particulars to follow.

 

Nasty! Nasty!!! Two co-ed’s were
all set up in an apartment for the year.
Somebody camped down. Now all
the boys are sorry.

Romance. .Sparrow Payne has been
seen walking home from the Campus
with a “petite fille’ for the past few
days. We'll bring out an extra when
it happens.

Pooh DeWolfe is not turning out
for football, so they say. That’s al
right Pooh, we still have ‘FAITHI
in you,

Sy Pia tober, ist, Tyet 1937

 

IN

TITLE

 

 

 

(Continued. from Page 3).

The major and minor sports of the
University are in good order and the
One of the main

future looks bright.
difficulties, however, is that the D. A.
Aan

for the University teams. This is a
major problem and considerable difficulty is encountered in securing coaches
lin some of the main sports. The
|coaching problem has always been
prominent at Dalhousie, while our
| sister maritime universities are more
fortunate.

The D. A. A. C. wishes to take this
Opportunity to extend a warm and
sincere welcome to all newcomers
to the University and invites them to
take an active part in any branch of
athletics in which they are interested.

 

WALLACE BROS.

takes pride in presenting
the New Fall Shoes for
Men and Women

Popularly Priced

Smartest Styles

Expert Fitting

Wallace Bros. Ltd.

415 Barrington St.

New Address Green Lantern Bldg.

above will
They will be Bill Cook, Henry Ross, Bus Phillips, Red Ideson and Don
Others who performed for last year’s edition of the Tigers and are not shown, but who will be playing toLast but not least are coaches Fletcher and Rankine, who are

Storey.

ODE Ae

has to provide its own coaches/and Smith from

Nov.

 

 

Show your
Loyalty
To Our Team
and Win

 

|| Huskies Tryout
For Studley Squad

The Studley
the of
last two weeks.
practising daily for the coming season,

Footkhall field has been

scene great activity fer the

The boys kave been

and under the keen eyes of Pref.
Fletcher and Dr. John Rankine, they
are rapidly rounding into shape for
the opening game against the Acadia
Axemen on Oct. 2nd. When _ the
whistle opens the season at Studley
on Sat. Manager Bud MacKenzie

a bunch of huskies
the

expects to trot out

well qualified to wear Gold and

Black.

Although graduation rebbed the
team of such stars as Gunter, Buckley,
Connor and others, their places are
being ably filled by men from last

year’s intermediate team and several
whom excellent
Don
is not returning to college this fall,
Mont

from re
MacGregor

new-comers,

sults are expected.

and

George Corston and. Jim are

both undecided about playing owing
to injuries received last season which
have not completely come back to

normal,

The following
practise all and others are
expected from Arts and Science: Irwin,
Pauker, Cook, Phillips, Hennigar, Laidlaw, Ross, Armstrong, Cameron,
Stech, Murray, MacDonald,
| Ranking, MacGregor, MacDougal, Ide.
son, Mushkat, Storey, Kerr, Mitchell,
Smith, Hendry, Chernin, Leith, Purves,
MacIntosh, Egan, Miller,
Mercer, and Housser. Kerr previously

boys have reported

for ready

Kitz,
Koretsky,

Haynes,

played for Mt. A., Egan for St. F. X.
Housser hails from British Columbia
New York.

Last year the students supported
the team in fine style and the team
did not let them down. This year
we expect a strong team and once
again we ask the students to show
some of that Old Dalhousie Spirit
which was evident last season.

Oct. 2nd. Acadia at Dal.

Sth Wanderers at Dal.
lith Acadia at Wanderers.
16th: Dalat Wanderers.
20th Wanderers at Acadia.
23rd Wanderers at Dal.
80th Dal at Wanderers.

6th Dalat Acadia.

 

DRUGS

CHOCOLATES

FOUNTAIN

 

MacLeod, Balcom

Limited

 

 

DOOKS TEA ROOM Ltd.

Make this your meeting place

CONFECTIONERY

 

Good Service

 

TOBACCOS

: , 1
|
;
|
;
i}
'
!
j
mm |
|)
}
:
1|
'
'
’
}

 

MAGAZINES

Fine Staff, ete.

COME IN AND BRING YOUR FRIEND
MAKE IT A DALHOUSIE GET-TOGETHER
AFTER THE SHOW

 

 
