
  
 

  

7 Glee Club

aa

   

Show
To-night

   
  
 

 

 

VOL. LXVIII.

 

 

PHYSIGAL DIRECTOR'S AUTH

 

 

N.F.C.U.S. Scholarships Are
Offered Dalhousie Students

With the announcement of the Exchange Scholarships for 1938-39, a
limited number of students at Dalhousie

’ University have the opportunity of ob
taining a year’s scholarship at some
other Canadian University. These
scholarships which are sponsored by
the National Federation of Canadian
University Students, enable students
to study at an ‘“‘exchange’’ university
for one year without paying tuition
fees or Students Union Fees. The
N. F. C. U. S. representative on this
eampus is Mr. Henry B. Ross and prospective applicants can obtain full details from him.

The Exchange of Undergraduates
Plan was initiated about nine \ears ago
by the executive of the N. F. C. U.S.
and came into operation eight years ago
alter the presidents, registrars, and fiancial authorities of the Canadian universities had given their consent.
Under the plan the universities are divided into four groups—the University

of British Columbia, the universities

of the Prairie Provinces, the universi
fy ties of Ontario and Quebec, and the

universities of the Maritimes.

- Scholarships may be awarded only
where a student of one university
wishes to obtain scholarship at a university in a diflerent “‘division.”” This
is subject to one exception—Ontario
students may apply for scholarships to
French-Canadian Universities in Quebee for the purpose of taking special
studies in French language and vica
versa.

Any student, male or female, may
apply if he is, at the time of his application, in the second year of his course
or, in the case of five year courses, in
the second or third year. It is a condition of each appointment that the
Exchange Scholar must return, at the
conclusion of his scholarship year to
complete course at his “home’”’
university. Consequently a Sophomore taking the usual four-year Arts
course may be awarded a_ scholarship
for his third year; in the case of fiveyear course the scholarship may be
warded either for the third or fourth
year. The scholarships are particularly easy to arrange in the Arts pass
course. It is not necessary that the
candidate be in his second year at university, so long as he is in the second

his

. year of his course.

Applications must be handed in to the
N. F. C. U. S. representative before
March Ist, 1938.

Debates Slated

If you believe that the world can be
doctorsand the medical profession generally, come out and support the brave
adventurers from the Medical School.
Next Monday night in the Munro
Room in the Forrest Building, Irving
Rubins and Roy Gold of the Medical
Society will meet Bob Armstrong and
Harry Housser from the Law Society
in an open debate to settle the question
“Resolved that the medical doctor
makes the ideal statesman.’’ The
Meds will uphold the affirmative.
Everyone out. It’s an audience decision. Remember, Monday night at
8.15 in the Munro room.

- Sedales also takes pleasure in announcing an interesting event in the
near future with debaters from King’s

 

College on the problem of co-education

in modern universities. Feb. 18 has
been set as a tentative date, but may
be changed.

*
\

 

—_—$— ue i q—

Returns To Dal

 

 

EDWARD BARNHILL

Rumours rife on the campus that
medical men have decided not to offer
for student government offices in thé
elections next month are believed by
observers to be the cause of ‘‘Barney”’
Barnhill’s arrival in Halifax this week.

ince his first year in Medicine five
years ago “Barney’’ has been one of
the most powerful and popular men
on this campus and for two successive
terms was President of the D. A. A. C.
The fact that he has to spend the next
three months at the Halifax Infirmary
to complete his internship is said by
some to be a contributing factor in the
return of Mr, Barnhill.

The Students’ Side

‘The Editors,
Dear Sirs:—

Growing dissatisfaction of the student
body with regard to Gymnasium regulations has become apparent in the
past few days. The attitude of Mr.
Korning with regard to the students
and the Gymnasium is as follows—
“It is entirely a matter between the
President and myself, and is not to be
discussed with the students.”

The feeling of the students is that
we should not lose the meaning of the
word ‘University—open discussion
should be allowed and the students
should have a word in the running of
their own affairs.

When Mr. Korning was approached
on this matter he said that he was not
interested. His intimation was that
he was in full control of the Gymnasium and that the students would
have to sit back and listen while he
continued his present policies.

Is this Dalhousie Co-operation?

ANTI-COMMUNIST.

The Editor,
Dear Sir:

How long is this Physical Instructor
to direct the activities of the Glee
Club? On Wednesday night, ten days
before a Glee Club show, the Players’
Guild was informed that the stage was
not available for rehearsal.

At 10.30 p. m. Mr. Korning asked all
the students to leave the Gymnasium
but they refused. A notice posted in
the Gymnasium and signed by Prof.

(Continued on Page 4)

 

 

Interfaculty
Debate

Medicine

VS.
Law

Munro Room
Monday Night

 

 

HALIFAX, N. S., FEBRUARY, 11th, 1938

 

 

 

No. 16

ORITY 1S DEFIED

>
*

Chairman Explains Stand Of
Senate Gymnasium Committee

*,
°°

. aly A storm which has been brewing fc
Musical Show On the past several weeks bet ween oiticad
Munro Day Slate

students on this campus and Physical
A special Glee Club executive, com
Director Sven
major
posed of Wallace ‘“‘Doc’”’ Roy and Jack
Dacey have taken over the reins for the
Munro Day Dalhousians are assured of a firstclass presenta
 

 

Medical Faculty To Decide On
Exam. Schedule Tonight

 

   
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
   
   
  
   
  
 
  

On this page appear two letters written by indignant members of the
Students’ Medical Society. One, by the President of the Society, is terse, to
the point and obviously is written with scme authority. If the article in last
week's Gazette was “impertinent and insolent” the editors would have no hesitation in apologizing. We do not believe it was either impertinent or insolent
and are glad of the fact that President Gosse apparently speaks for himself on
this matter.

In the same letter we are accused ‘‘of showing complete igncrance of the

Korning broke into
proportions Wednesday night
when the students defied Mr. Korning’s
authority to eject them from the Gymnasium before the eleven o'clock closing hour.

Inquiring into the matter the JaZelve ascertained the following
from both parties concerned.

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
   
  

production and

present situation,” and later cf publishing falsehoods. Strong words and strong
accusations, but the Gazette is the students’ publication and the logical place
for the opinions of Mr. Gosse or any other student. That the readers may
judge the truth of last week’s story for themselves we print the facts of the case:

The Third Year examination schedule of the Medical School
for 1938 extends from Monday, April 18 to Monday Arril 25.

During these seven working days 11 examinations are to be
Of this number, eight are written, two are oral and one isa

lacts
Following the Matzenauer concert, members
of the Players’ Guild gathered on the
stage for a rehearsal of the one-act play
to be presented tonight. This was at
10.30 p. m., owing to the concert the
earliest hour possible for the rehearsal.

tion on March
8. Prior to this
fi year Mr. Roy
of
the association
since 1936, had

many successe

as President

taken.
8! On being asked, both by a janitor and
credit Mr. Korning, to leave the building in
order that it might be locked up for the
night, the students They
pointed out the fact that gymnasium
regulations state that students can use
the building until] 11 p. m., but the
Physical Director contended his authority extended to the closing of the
gyminasium at any hour.

Hot words ensued and Mr. Korning threatened to lock the students in
the building. He was told to “go
ahead and lock it, we'll get out somehow,” so the doors were locked with
the students left Together
with a latch lock the gym doors contain locks which may only be opened,
inside or out, by keys. How the the
students managed to vacate the building is not disclosed—but they were not
there yesterday morning,

At a meeting of the Senate Gymnasium Committee yesterday noon the
Physical Director referred the matter
to that group which took immediate
action, drafting a letter to one of the
students concerned warning him that a
further occurrence of refusal to recognize Mr. Korning’s authority in mat
practical exam.
Except for the first few students to be examined, oral tests usuFrom a reliable

to his
and assisted by
his stage
manager, Mr.
Dacey, will undoubtedly give the students what they on this ‘38
Munro Day.

All year Dalhousians have been asking for a musical comedy—and now
they will have one of the best. A comedy which promises to eclipse ‘ Marrying Marion,” the hit of four years ago.
The combined forces of the Glee Club,
Choral Seciety and Symphony Orchestra have united to give Dalhousie
‘“My Tomboy: Girl,”’ a musical comedy
three . acts.

In the average musical comedy the
plot is usually a thin affair that serves
to thread together only the musical
numbers. When a musical comedy has
a good plot it is considered unusual,
but when a musical comedy has such
a sound and consistent story that it
could be played without the music,
then it isthe exceptional musical comedy.

‘“My Toinboy Girl’ is the exceptional
musical comedy for it has a well defined
plot with Romance, Humour, Action—
afew thrills and fine characterizations.

If you want to laugh, if you want to
roar until your very sides ache, be sure
and see “‘My Tomboy Girl,” to be presented at the Dalhousie Gymnasium
on Munro Day by the Dalhousie Glee
Club Players.

ally take up more time than a written paper.
source the Gazette learned that a group of 14 went to an oral exam
last year at 2.30 p. m., with the last student leaving at approximately 8.45 p. m.

At a meeting of the Student Medical Society last week the Third
Year class strongly protested the schedule and received the unanimous support of the Society.

A committee of six was appointed and interviewed the Dean}
of Medicine with the intention of securing a fairer schedule. The
Dean expressed his opinion against a revision of the schedule but
promised to refer the protest to the Medical Faculty at the next
regular meeting. THIS MEETING WILL BE HELD TONIGHT
AND A DECISION ANNOUNCED.

 

old :
refused.

~

want

a)

. inside.

These are the trie facts of the affair. They have been checked with responsible medical students. The Gazette admits the author of last week’s story
wrong on one important point. The story stated that ‘the students of the Third
Year are willing to guarantee 100% attendance” at classes preceeding examinations if the schedule were spread out through the term as in other years. This
It is believed, how
in

suggestion was voted down at the Society’s last meeting.
ever, that if the attendance issue were the deciding point in favour of a revision
of the schedule, that the Third Year class wculd guarantee 100% attendance.

The Gold Standard Supports Korning

The Editors of the Datkousie Gaselte have asked me to write something
about the way things are managed in
the Dalhousie Gymnasium, with particular reference to the meeting of the
senate Gymnasium Committee held
from 12 noon to 1.45 p. m. this afternoon, Thursday, February 10, 1988,
when a letter was drafted warning a
student that if he defied the authority
of the Physical Director a further time

 

 

Dear Mr. Editor:

I have been asked by several prominent members of the Medical School to
express the resentment of our student
body to the handling of a news item
concerning the proposed schedule for
the coming spring examinations. We
honestly feel that the impression gleaned from reaing the story the Gazette
carried could easily be erroneous to one

ters concerning the gymnasium would
result in a temporary suspension from
the building.
This week the Gazette will not comeditorially on this unfortunate
(Continued on Page 4)

ee )

Impertinence ??

ment

unfamiliar with the true state of af-| he would be excluded from the Gym. The Editors wish to apolofairs. There has never been, nor is|nasium. gize for the late hour at which
there now any suggestion of an ulti- The Physical Director, Mr. Sven|] the Gazette is published to-day. || The Editors,

Korning, is in charge of the Gym- Dear Sirs:

To assist him in making de
Final copy of the misunderstanding between the Physical
Director and students went to
press this morning. In order to
present to the students latest

matum to the faculty on this or any
previous matter, the Medical
Student Body.

The present incident arose solely because the third vear class considered

 

nasium.
cisions there is a Senate Gymnasium
Committee consisting of Professors
Bell, Maxwell, Theakston, Walmsley,

from

The article to which the Gazette gave
headlines in its last issue regarding the
Medical students protesting a stiff ex
 

they had a just grievance and a succeeding Medical Sogiety Meeting concurred with their contention that this
grievance be aired to the authorities.

Coffin and Dr. Clyde Holland, with
myself as chairman. The meeting this
afternoon was called to confer with officials of the D. A. A. C. and also to
consider the schedule of the Glee Club

developments of the incident it
was found necessary to hold
Page 1 until that time.

 

am schedule is to my mind the most
impertinent and insolent piece of material carried by your paper in many
vears. Apart from misconstruing the
facts, and showing complete ignorance

Such a procedure had in the past, always resulted in some satisfactory arrangement to the mutual advantage of
both faculty and students and there is
no doubt that our present representations will merit a similar sympathetic
hearing.

for the remainder of the season. of the present situation, it makes de
The business on the regular agenda
having been covered in one hour, Mr.
Korning brought up the special item,
namely that certain students had re
fused to leave the building at 10.30

Glee Club

On the evening Friday, the
eleventh, the Glee Club promises a programme of two plays, both of which are

finitely false statements respecting
previous incidents in which the faculty
and students have ironed out their difficulties. It neither typifies nor €m
bodies the ideas orthe methods of the

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
   

of

It is.here, Mr. Editor, that we take|the previous evening, after the Mat- in competition for the Connolly shield, | Students’ Medical Society nor of the
offence to the story as reported, The] zenauer concert, when the gymnasium] These plays are the offerings of the} Medical students as a whole. The

Medical Society did not write nor inspire the article. It did not cause it
to be written nor had it any idea that
such an article was being prepared.
Furthermore, it is the writer’s opinion
that if its presumptuous author were
made known to the Medical Society,
he would receive short shrift from that
organization.

was closed to the public, including
students, except for the purpose of attending the concert.

Incidentally, on other evenings the
gymnasium is closed at 11 p. m., except with special permission of the
Physical Director, who must be assured
that the building is under satisfactory
supervision. Mr. Korning does not
like to leave the building in charge of

prominence afforded it in your paper of the newly
was probably unwarranted, but as
presented from the pen of some brilliant newspaperman I| confess it had the
earmarks of a sensational news flash.
But facts are facts. At no time in the
past five years at least have we had any
cause to consider our faculty ‘‘aloof’’—
quite the contrary, medical students

in my time have always cherished and
(Continued on Page 4)

Education Dept. and
formed Players’ Guild. Under the direction of Professor B. A. Fletcher,
Education is presenting “The Roof”’
by John Galsworthy, while the Players’
Guild has adapted G. B. Shaw’s‘'Fascinating Foundling”’ to fit life on Dalhousie Campus. The last is under the
direction of Dr. Taylor, assistant Pathologist, an experienced and enthuiastic
member of the Theatre Arts Guild.

C. L. Gosse,

(Continued on Page 4) Pres. Dalhousie Medical Society.
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
   
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
   
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
   

4)

. “ ht - a ~ ae Piers oes ag i
= “its Bi “ 7 4 ne a Rie 7 i) Ll pes Ene
-Founded!1869, ‘The Oldest College Paper in America’’.
ee ale my : Ll aS gle gem hm]
ye - E 7 ze LE ~ = : :

—

a oe} . 5
_ _Editors-in-Chief. —
Bae ay E. F. MERCHANT.
x * met a a Res igh te ori n : : B-0254.
-as z¢ tee Nesee tt ky at aN Associates. bri
~\ ‘J, Babbitt Parlee, B, A. _ Walter Murphy. Roland Hurst.
Vas er ‘Leona d Kitz. . John F. Finlay, B. A. . Peggy Merkel.
ee ai-5 i race Patfield Lloyd Dalton Barbara Murray
J ee, ip Rhea rh. _ James Curry, Me A.
epee tet a rit Sports Editor.
‘CHARD MURPHY. . ae aii JOHN DICKEY, B. A.
ee sO ecaae ee | B-5545.
- Asst. News Editor -—=S«s Business Manager. Proof Editor
{ARJORIE McLEAN. R.L, ARMSTRONG, B. A. MALCOLM MacLEOD.
aes Ree) as, B-5700.

‘THE YEAR BOOK.

_- . --The decision of the Student's Council to continue the Year
~ Book is, to us, extremely wise. Such an institution 1s most 1mportant in campus affairs and ranks with the other well-known
college societies and organizations as an integral part of every
student's life. To those tho are about to graduate it is doubly
important, for it enables them to take away, a record of their uni -versity career, an emblem of everything that is Dalhousie that
al they will keep through future. years. ds
, It seems strange to us that it should be so exceedingly difficult
to find an able man to fill a certain post on the staff. We under-- stand fully that it is an arduous position, indeed, but with a student body the size of ours there should be more than one to jump
at the opportunity. There is, however, a factor that explains all,

a perfectly illogical reason for all this. We refer to that student
apathy that rages high, wide and handsome all over this fair campus. It seems that there are very few who are either capable or

a _ desirous of taking student offices, and when these hardysouls
Seo, OCA they are greeted by the large

+ carry on to the best of their ability, 1 by
and lazy remainder with the refrain that campus activities are run
by cliques. The obvious answer to these ignorant deriders is that
there would be no

iw

if there were none of these so-called cliques,
extra curricular activities at Dalhousie. ;

| he fact remains, however, that the Year Book will be seen
rain. We congratulate the Council on finding a man with

qualifications to fill the position. All graduates have

ed the news with pleasure, for this annual publication is, to
erished souvenir of the lighter side of a college education,
they have spent at Dalhousie.

4 mee :
rane, ||

at Eye

 

mle A ere

a nm % +
t SIGS CSN tae Le ay et i teed
ca i * f ay gers

Once a year all Dalhousie students are required to visit the
ft: "Public He lth Clinic for a thorough medical examination where
Pee Pa yecial attention is given to examining our chests for symptoms of
--_ “‘tuberuclosis, and intesting our eyes so that any defects may be discovered and cured as soon as possible. This Clinic is housed in a
td ae modern building which gives you an impressiln of sanitation the
uy is moment you enter it, and it is open to the poor of the City for free
medical and surgical treatment.
Geen one A short distance away is the Forrest Building, shabby and
antiquated, where over 400 students daily attend lectures and do
-_ laboratory and library work. Here these students have to breathe
eto foul air, work under poor lighting conditions, and shiver in cold
--——s weather because of inadequate heating. Such conditions breed
physical ailments which, in the modern building across the street,
medical men are employed to discover and cure.
_——~—s Dalhousie has money to spend on a clinic for the benefit of
the people of Water Street, but no funds are available to provide
| ‘decent ventilation, lighting and heating in the building where

future doctors, lawyers and dentists of Canada and the United

States receive the education necessary to fit them for their professions.

ge
tag &
P ae et

ee all

What Every Boy Should Know

farther away and you are far less likely
to be embarrassed by the glare of some
auto, or, still worse, the glare of some
inquisitive partner in crime. So your
choice really depends on whether you
prefer privacy or coziness; personally,
and most people feel the samie way after
a time, I prefer the latter. I haven’t
said much about D, but that has none
of the advantages of the other three.

 

 

In view of recent developments,
which we sincerely hope and trust will
_ lead to an increased male attendance
at Shirrefl Hall, we feel it will not be
amiss to write some words of advice to
the newcomers. The lesson for today
will be a detailed description of the
ss greatest attractions at the Hall—no
- boys, I don’t mean Frannie M—I mean
i ae alcoves.
. _ Some of you may disagree with me
on the importance I attach to alcoves.
If so, your education has indeed been
_-———sadly neglected. I am sure those of
__-- you who are better informed on the
ee subject will agree with me when | state
that the weekly Saturday night date,
pew ie walk along the Arm, nay, even the
annual dance, would all ease a certain

4

| indefineable (or is it definable?) some
If you should be so unfortunate as to
arrive and find alcove A “fully”
occupied, a ‘’kean"” wind blowing
around alcove B, alcove C brimming
“weight” over with en‘‘jo’’ment, and
two sweet young things marking time
in alcove D, you have two alternatives,
you may hold her hand, look into her

eyes, and part with her at the door,

os fag, if Shirreff: Hall. were differently (I strongly advise against this), or

. Bee TE you may simply sit on the steps and

constres await your turn. The latter process is

quite a pleasant procedure, and we find

several of our legal friends avail themselves of it quite frequently.

a2 on that, we'll proceed with the lesson.
ae _ There are, first of all, four alcoves; there
| ._—__— ig one on each end, which we shall call
agers! A and D, and one on each side of the

door, which we shall call B and C.

a Each ac has its own pecu uliar advantages
as just about ialf the size of the others,

I am sure you must all have a working knowledge of the subject by now.
If, however, there is any point about
which you are still in the dark, and
concerning which you. desire further
information and enlightenment, a letter to the Gazette office will secure the
desired results.

z , mh Pe ae, te ee ‘ 2 : :
and _ disadvantages. B and C, for instance the advantage of being
= jee ea Se oko ght he.
and. I. do so-o0 appreciate coziness at
such a time, don’t you? But then A is

= s i a oP i a
a = by
c ie a
bad : ee | igt >
: i
i ‘ F 4 +

  
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
  

 

“Oh, no, really, you dance divinely.
Only would you kind of not dance collegiate, though? Dancing collegiate is
all right for people who don't go to college, but what I mean is I think it’s
much more dignified to dance sort of

dignified, isn’t it?’’

“This is only the second time you've
danced? My goodness, I’d never know
it. But could you sort of let go hunching my dress up in the back? I feel
a draught on the back of my knees.
I'm terribly susceptible to colds, You

‘probably wouldn’t believe there are

some men who make a clump of sweatty wrinkles on the back of your dress.
Some men just don't care how many
dresses they ruin. I had seven evening
dresses the beginning of the year and
this is the.only one that isn't... . Urp!
That’s the third time you bumped
into them. They gave you a kind of
extremely dirty look.

“Ch, my foot! No, it wasn’t your
fault. Not exactly. You see the
trouble is, you stepped on my foot.
You see, the way they are dancing
nowadays, they don’t dance so friskily. What I mean is, you do dance
beautifully, when you're not frisky.
Listen, my arm is tired. I know you
wouldn’t mind holding it quieter,
would you? Even when I was a little
girl I could never pump a pump when
we went out to a farm, or something.
I have the funniest arms. They get
tired so quickly. See? Nobody else
is pumping.

“Oh no. I really did want to dance
with you. I said to Jim, “I want to
dance with that...... .l said I wanted to dance with you. I don’t mind
bumping into people. Except if we

‘knock our heads together, on account
of I get headaches,

“What? No, I wasn’t doing anything behind your back. « [1 don't see
‘how you can say sucha thing, the divine
‘way you dance, and everything. ~Why
‘should I want someone to coime rescue
me? That's silly, Ch, here comes
Jim. Isn’t that the funniest. thingMaybe he did think I was making motions.

“No, let’s not try to get away from
him. I don’t think that’s fair, do you?
The floor is smoother right around here
anyhow. You dance divinely when
the floor is smooth. Only I'd rather
you wouldn’t do that little hop step.
I’ve got to be very careful. The doctor told me never to hop because it’s
very bad for my heart-burn.

‘Hello, Jim....Well of all things
He passed me up! He's cutting in on
that bleached blonde. The rat! I'll
bel him... 2.1. What I mean is, you
dance divinely.”’

——tThe College Times.”

 

Pine Hill Tale

The Pine Hill at Home of 1938
promises to be one of the best yet.
The date has been finally set for the
18th of this month. All the girls on
the campus are advised to stay handy
a telephone until 8 o'clock on that
night. After that you may as well give
up hope. In describing the event we
say it is stupendous, tremendous, gigantic, collosal. Words seem _insufficient.

Personalities in the Public Eye:
Lothario Crummey and Mighty
Hammer Rogers have taken to piano
lessons. They can both play the primo

of the Variations.

George McElmon has really gone in
for physical development, Watch out
girls, the cave man iscoming. Weldon
Grant please note.

John Grant has made a name for himself stumping for Charlie as the next
President. The blockhead.

Don Whitman has reached the hall
of fame by bifling Bill Crummey on the
head and splitting his underwear.
These westerners!

Cliff Stewart calls for special attention because of his unremitting eflorts
on behalf of the Pine Hill play in the
competition. Not finding one to suit
him, he wrote his own, directed it himself and picked his own cast.

Parker Matheson, is chief cook and
bottle washer behind the At Home.

The second floor of the annex is
hereby given warning that a vigilantes
committee has been formed and will be
around to stop the racket. We wonder
if Bill Rodger or Tilley Asbell can be
back of all the noise.

Obiter

The local press has started a campaign against the import of foreign
pictures and picture magazines into
this fair country. It is rather a shame,
because it has taken publishers a long
time to realize that the public cannot
read. Those that could, used to have
an unfortunate habit of moving their
lips when reading, which habit, as
Punch points out, has disappeared almost completely. The argument too,
that the pictures were not “art,’’ seems
rather weak. Of course much of it is
not art, but the public can tell that.
Maybe they can’t read, but they can
easily tell art when they see it, if they

= LS eee, Ee tl ee ee at “ a ea
ete pea, We fet a " Ja WF 5" Pe we Yo 7 3 a es Wie ‘ be pet Ray
" eee oe Fa a uf ere ‘s ae + r sa ; ay =, ¢ 7. 4
MMR as ahr ey . ee
kal eee: ar ee Rn Rat fe “pe eT rl i 4 t
rE ; r ato w hs oy * is
eae Se sie ase _ ;
aoe’, i ql ee 7“ . ~ °
era 4) o_o is ' 7
Tie : _ DALHOUSIE GAZETTE
vee ieee c f :
areas How You Dan
{ .
mene ow You Dance
a : € h :

ever do. They should try the Lord
Nelson Hotel occasionally. Maybe
that is-art. Who knows? But why

ban these unartistic products when true
confessions of flaming passions are put
on sale every week? We must be
careful with this censoring business.
Give a censor an inch and it is well
known how far he will go. I think he
should be made to walkit. That might
cure him,

University Politics.

It is popularly believed that college
graduates are the leaders in the community. but I fear that the Lunenburg
fishermen must have chuckled to themselves when they read last week's
Gazette and saw how the campus, inspired by their efforts, has tried strikes
and protests. It amazes me to think
that the overworked meds can really
run Dalhousie, but the Studley battle
cry is well known. Then we have diseased fraternities. At least the student life is said to be diseased by them.
And of course Mt. Allison must contribute. All in all, it is a wonder we
have lived so long. To those on the
campus who belong to the Oppenheim
school of politics it is of course plain
that the men from other universities
are plotting toruin us, but to the less
sophisticated, there may be an element
of doubt. Still it is difficult to see
what difference it makes after the outsider has been here for four years.
That is as long (or is it?) as the average student stays at Studley. Of
course we want more than an average
student as president of the student
council. In fact we want the best man
at Dal. for the job, not merely the best
man at Studley.

Western Jokes.

With the publicity given to the Rowell
Commission the saying that in the
Maritimes they take their politics seriously has come into the limelight. Not
that the local press ever gave the public
much of a chance to forget it. The
implication behind this is that the
western provinces regard their politics
lightly. I am glad to hear it, too,
It bespeaks much for their intelligence
that they think Mitch is a joke, and
still more that they think Social Credit
is funny. Many Maritimers have, as
a matter of fact, taken time off from
being serious to smile at the innocence
of the West. However, the headlines
of their own newspapers give the lie
to the implication. More power to
them.

 

Dental Explorer

Sir William Osler said “There is not
one single thing in preventive medicine
that equals in importance mouth hygiene and the preservation of teeth.”’

In the United States it has been estimated that 100 million people do not
receive adequate dental treatment and
the condition in Canada is just as bad.
It seems that the lay public’s obvious
ignorance of the value and necessity
for preventive measure in dentistry is
one of the biggest faults to be found
with the dental profession of today.

What is the solution? Why not advertise—one of the greatest forces the
world has known to put something over.
I do not mean personal advertising by
individual dentists, but a powerful
organized campaign by the whole profession.

The argument has been that advertising is both unethical and undignified.
If indeed advertising is the means of
improving the dental health of the public, and in reducing the number of

, dental cripples, then certainly it is

worthy of all for which dentistry stands.

How many of you Dalhousians have
been putting off the trip to the dentistDon't delay. See your dentist twice a
semester.

 

 

“Where did Bill and Mary get to ?”
“Probably they lingered somewhere with a Sweet Cap!”

SWEET CAPORAL CIGARETTES

“The purest form in which tobacco can be smoked.”

 

When You Need
DRUGS MEDICINES

or any other Drug Store Merchandise

SERVICE

PRESCRIPTIONS

 

and

better VALUE

KINLEY’S DRUG STORES

You get

at

BEFORE BUYING

LUGGAGE or LEATHER GOODS
OF ANY KIND SEE

AELLYS LTD.

118 GRANVILLE ST. B-6962

THE BEAUTY SPOT
1973 QUINPOOL ROAD

Scientific Hair Treatment and Artistic Styling

Miss Macneil B-9651

FLOWERS....
The VALENTINE She Will Remember.

from

Che Plower Shop

Phone B-7062 37 BLOWERS ST.

 

 

 

DANCE FAVORS

To obtain the smart—the
different — favor requires
planning by Birks, as well
as by Committees.

DRUGS
TOILET ARTICLES
CONFECTIONERY

 

FOUNTAIN

FADER’S

May we discuss favors

with you—early?

Henry Birks & Sons

Pharmacy y= Miah =
29 COBURG RD. mere tone

“The KINGSTON”’

The latest in streamline, a new spring hat with
special style features, made of all fur felt, with choice
of new shades.

Priced now available at

$3.95

COLWELL BROTHERS

The English Departmental Store for Men
453-457 BARRINGTON STREET

 
—

Sp Ra te eT “alt i
Lee ek hs ee, chy tac jaa
; we Baie - ; ny Oe i
5 na. tg tals
ne ¥)4 "
% oe) ; - 4 igh NE ee Ws
4 - i ‘ey ree
= ..

 
     

|never do anything anyway, so they
were much at home just playing.
| But the committee Ten had to compare
notes to see who they could black list
,|from playing sports. ~
  

has been enough fuss on the campus of
late without causing any more. We
have got fair play so lets show a sense of
values and let well alone what by rights

Dear Editors,

In the last couple of issues I've noticed a little flurry about the squash
courts. Now, | may be putting for
        
   
 
          

  
   

the findings of the various
*s of the Royal Commissicn
“now holding it’s sessions at
ieee isha for the ap
 
  
   
   
   
 
   
   
  
 
 
 
   
  
 
  

esis work. This
ea clearer to your mind
should drop into the Provincial
and ‘see the Rowell Commission

However, I shall try to state
v and without prejudice just

   

  
  
   
  
   
  
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
   
 

cil, eommittee sixteen; “dhe D,
C., committee ten; the Clee Club
ittec Five; the Gym. Conimittee,
mittee Eleven; the Committee of
various Profs. (blank committee,
aly, of course for the want of a suitnumber) ; and finally the commit
 
  
 

  

  

    

s latter. has_ been endowed by the
Authorities to put any
i on the Campus on the mat, its
jole purpose being to enquire and find
i who wrote that letter, afew weeks
9; to the Gazette, concerning the
- Delta Gamma incident at the Hall.
7 ] “might say, that this committee has
i ee well and has attained some
of success. It has learned the
iden tity of the writer (this is being
I. kept secret for the present), but does
not consider its work finished as it
wishes to track down the six persons
10 signed the article. I may also
that there is a fellow who knows
the signers. were. aa he dis
  

  

  

  

  

  

nmi vtees had | a whole week
{ yut their r ee
however, what, -happe

   

    

   
 
  
 
 
 
 

t v a he ‘Goienikiee of deven' Ss
: _ They gathered in the commit§ of Five's room, which made them
| in a@ rather nasty disposition,
though not unusual. The Blank com
 
  
   
  
  
  

 sixteen’s own room and so the comrnittee Five had to use the Committee
<i pe ~deven’ s room, then the committee of
sixteen turned around and used the
ee ie of eleven’s room, and that
_is how it all happened. The commitMe tees: Ten and Eleven retired to the
‘Smoking room in the basement to play
i apes: The committee Eleven

  
   
   
    
  
   
  
  
  

  

 

 

  

    
 
  

 
  
   
     
  

a Council which will lead Dalhotsie to
a ) newer, and more glorious triumphs, or
at least, balance the budget. We have
Wi been told that it is extremely poor policy
Bs be to choose X, because he is a Fraternity
/ man, or if because he’s a second Gable.
: Being but one of the humble Frosh,
a and, as such, of infinitesimal importance, we venture to ask a question
_which we are sure has been troubling
~, the minds (thank you) of many of our
_ fellow-classmen and women. Just how
tor are elections run at Dalhousie, officially
2 Pk course? We are not asking for an
| peapoeé, although from the terrible adnitions with which we have been
“smothered, such a procedure might
well be in order.
_ We know there is a Students Council
ich tries to run. everything, as is its
ity, we are told, but which appartly has made a slight mess of matters.
hhave repeatedly heard the Glee
b Executive denounced as indolent,
stent, and might also say irerent, irrelevent, and immaterial.
Being of the weaker sex we cannot
on the D, A. A. C. and we

   
   
 

‘4 iN

 

    
   
    
    
 
  
   
  
  
   
  
   
    
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
   
   
   

=

of One, which has very high powers, |

You |; merits of the Year Book, to the Uni
 

 

yn Delta Gamma, the |

Because I was secretary of all the
committees, you will understand my
position in running from room to toom,
Before the evening was over I ended
up playing checkers with some members of committee Ten. I think the
most fun was in the Blank committee
room, not because of the name of that
| commicte, but because of the characters in it.

[ got the following details from their
secretary so 1 am unable to asseverate
their correctness. The election of a
suitable chairman for their group almost proved fatal. Why, I do not
know, but every one wanted to be
chairman. It boiled down to a selection between Doughlas and Johnstone
I think Johnstone was leading by a small
majority, when suddenly Douglas
was announced chairman. This of
course riled the Johnstone supporters,
One young stupid looking fellow jumped to his feet and said; ‘‘I do not like
big men, they remind me of mountains
and are too inexpensive, too unsubtle.”

“T agree,’’ voiced another, ‘and

they assume an attitude of self-im
portance quite unjustified.”

(After the metting was over, one
member said to me that the chairman
reminded him of a bit of an ironic fable
by Aesop, which went something like
this, if I remember correctly. ‘‘A
mountain was in labour, sending forth
dreadful groans, and there was the
greatest expectation throughout the
region. But it brought forth only a
mouse.”’)

After the members had quieted down
and discontinued their abuse of the
members of the other committees, the
chairman gravely got to his feet, cleared
his throat and begun in a loud voice;
“Gentlemen, the great crisis at the
University has passed, we are going to
have a Year Book after all. The decision of the Council has been reversed.”

Then some one piped up,

answered the chairman,
‘someone has waxed eloquently on the

|| versity, as an advertising project. This

e| showed the Great Council their errors

[}and so they changed opinion.”

_ Thus with their first big problem
settled they adjourned for a smoke.
‘Much to their surprise the building
was empty. Then it suddenly came
to one intelligent looking prof. (you
could easily distinguish him from the
rest of the profs.) that it being Friday
night, that perhaps the Liberal Ball
had eaten into their ranks. This was
the case, so all of the Blank committee
left hurriedly for the Ball.

Just when they will meet again, I
cannot say. However, I shall be glad
to inform you of all that takes place.
Respectfully submitted. The Secretary-Genera].

Hiss and Hurrah From a Co-ed

cuse the cliche). Just these few remarks please. Much credit is due the
Delta Gamma Executive, for reasons
too obvious and well-known to discuss
here. Might we, though with all due
respect to the President who is one
‘swell gal,’’ suggest that officially, the
Presiding ofiicer has no opinion whatever, and takes part in discussion only
as an arbitrator. -Her sincerity and
competence are unquestioned and appreciated, and we hope this criticism
will be received in the same spirit in
which it Was oflered, but a little less
domination from higher up would be a
good thing.

Having gone this far, may we again
respectfully inquire, ‘‘What and why is
the D.G. A.C.?”” It seems to us that
this should be one of the most active
organizations on the Cantpus, while apparently it does nothing. Granted that
it does sponsor the Basketball Team,
there are many girls in this university
who receive no benefit whatever.
There should be some active association
to promote organized physical training
for all girls. Don’t think we are suggesting something along the lines of
Freshman Gym which, is really much
nicer than it sounds, and which, if
sufficient interest were taken in it by

adlines being an eflective such a body could be made even more
Rie any in order (ex-" enjoyable.

ercise without undue efiort.

  
   

at all,
and most strenuous game that is played.

           
    
   
      
     
   
        
    
         
       
      
        
          
         
        
 

“who is
to get the credit for this changed atti- 7
: d/} tude, , the Great Council themselves?”
hovet “No,”

      
           
    
          
        

for

ward a very unpopular point of view

but why do you want ta make them

open to the students? Asit looks to me

a few students have decided that they

want to poke their noses into other

people’s affairs and create more unnecessary unpleasantness. Not that
I don’t think the Gym is for the students. Not atall. The more there is
to do in the Gym for the students the
better it is for Dalhousie as it formsa
common meeting ground for those students. But thisappears merely to bea
case of having your cake and wanting
to- eat it at the same time. There is
only one court upstairs and only two
can play at a time so a very limited
number of the student body would be
able to participate during the day.
And as far as that goes how many students can play squash? I overheard
someone say .that he wanted a_ nice
quiet game to play so that he could exWell, if
that’s the case squash is not in his line
since it is perhaps the fastest

Another thing is that the squash

court is almost always being used by
the professors.
out of it as they possibly can, and it is

They get as much use

very seldom vacant. Certainly they
use their squash court in proportion
more than we use our badminton courts.

Anyway as I look at it the professors
They
room as it might be
called which is more than we have, but

have very little on the campus.
have a ‘union’

surely they deserve it. They enjoy

associating with each other just as
If

much as we do between ourselves.
they want to have a game of squash
when they have some spare time why
shouldn't they have the right to itYou must admit they don’t monopolize
our big gym, when they might easily

do so, so why should we barge in where
we are obviously not wanted.

There

OT. Y. Mo

Whit beste a¥aet Genta one ofer

*

for the contention that man is a social
animal than to watch the internes who
return to Halifax after three months
of- exile.

Doctors Barnhill, Stoddard,
Rosenfeld, Beeber and Horowitz come

back with their tongues hanging out

gossip and news, They've been
burning up the wires renewing old acquaintances in the endeavour to get
back into the swing of things.

We can't help thinking that Beeber
is a glutton for punishment. Sydney
to Dartmouth. Can think
better example of going from bad to
worse.

It Happened Last Week End
At the Phi Chi Party.

one of a

It seenis that Pat Patton, Bill Egan
and Allen Doane are going high hat on
the rest of us. Why else should they
have conducted a private party tn the
penthouse?

In another part of the house we were
amazed to find the affectionate roommates George Parsons and John Quinlan blissfully holding hands.

Its surprising that Clary Gosse was
absent. Rumour has it that he prefers Delta Gamma.

Ralph Plummer still hasn't explained
where he was until 3 A. M.

Those worthy ‘Phi Kappas McCurdy
and Van Horn merit congratulations
for shoving up in class the Saturday
morning after the formal. A reliable
informant tells us that they changed the
clothes and went right to class,

The success of Saturdays supper
dance was topped off by the presence
of Dr. Taylor in company of those
socially prominent internes J. G.
Simms, Ramsey and Roy.

Going up South Street toward Shirreff Hall one of-our agents heard a
rumble of voices which upon investigation turned out to be a stag smoker
in honor of the birthday of “Smokey”
Ulberg.

Editor Bob Aikens informs us that
within a fortnight our ‘Dalhousie
Medical Journal ’’ will be ready for
distribution. Bob and his staff are
delighted with the response to the call
for articles. They say that the Journal
will be better than ever. We have no
doubt but that the Med. School will
support the publication ‘‘To the Last
Man.”

 

 

——$_$_$<$<____—______—___ ree

does not really concern us. This may
be a small point but its worth considering, since there are always two sides
to every question and as in this case, |
one is sometimes overlooked. Besides
this question has cropped up before
during several intervals, time and
we still haven’t got the squash court,
so why worry?

of

 

A Freshette

LETTER TO EDITOR |

 

  

Dear Sirs:

DELICIOUS

 
 
 
  

 

    
 

Every year there is an attempt
made to stimulate interest in the Glee | FLAVORS
Club. Students are urged to take| LEMON
part in the presentations or to come
and support them. The Student Coun- ORANGE
cil budgets a good amount of our money STRA
| WBER
for Glee Club expenses, and on the at
whole everything is done to make this (ass! 4 VANILLA
organization one of the strongest links BORDEAUX
in student life. This end, however, is

not attained, and to anyone who attended the last Glee Club Show the
reason is obvious.

The Glee Club should be primariy
for Dalhousie Students, yet at the showsand dances these students are conspicuously in the minority. Why? The
answer is easily supplied. The Glee
Club dances are crowded with people
who have no connection of any kind
with Dalhousie. This abuse
evident this year than last, the students
feel the dances are no longer for them—
anybody is admitted.

Unless a policy of greater exclusiveness is followed in future, the day is not
far distant when the Club will
cease to have any interest for students.
Nothing is to be lost by refusing admittance to people »ost unre preseiitative of Dalhousie and much could be
gained in the say of student unity if a
certain element were barred from ‘student functions.

C. 3710

THE BEST CHOCOLATE MADE

 
 
  

is more

Glee

Dalhousianna.

 
   
  
  
  
   
 

CASINO

Starting Saturday

 

_ College Notes DRUGS

ite Chlorine spough to sanitize February 12
P y 12th.
five swimming pools. (Be careful, CHOCOLATES
they're poisonous.) THE BEST OF THE
2. Oxygen, enough to fill 1,400

WESTS!

MAE
WEST

in
“EVERY DAY’S
A HOLIDAY’’

cubic feet.

3. Thirty teasponfuls of salt, énough
to season 25 chickens.

4. Yen gallons of water.
all wet.)

FOUNTAIN

(They're

 

5. Five pounds of lime,
whitewash a
6.
7. Glycerine, enough for the bursting of a heavy navy shell. — (Be careful
fellows, handle with caution!)

enough to
chicken-coop.

MacLeod, Balcom

Limited

Thirty-one pounds of carbon.

  

8. Enough glutin te make five
pounds of glue. (Makes them adhesive. !
9. Margnesium, enough for ten
flash-light photos.
10. Fat, enough for ten bars of B k 9
soap. (Keep it clean.) ac ome here SS a
11. Enough iron to make a sixpenny nail.
12. Sulphur, enough to rid a dog of | h
fleas. e€ e€ e
13. And, believe it or not, only onequarter of a pound of sugar. (That's
why a lot of them sour on you.)

“The Manitobian.”’

Chat with them once a week for
An amoeba named Joe, and his brother

Went out drinking toasts to each other,

In the midst of their quafling

They split their sides laughing

And found that each was a mother.
“The Manitoban.’

hierniana seins Take

their happiness and your own.

The reduced night rates are in
effect after 7.00 o’clock each eve
ning and these
LINES WRITTEN ON CONTEM- 8 low rates are also

PLATION OF A PURPLE SHIRT. effective all day Sunday.
Vivid, colorful, gay and joyful,
Fascinating, purple boyful,

Amid dull moth it brightens lives,
Alas, ’t will never get him wives!

Sickly, bilious, too terrific,
Its lone effect is soperific,
When its combined with verdant green
I must hold forth and vent my spleen

Maritime Telegraph & Telephone

Company, Limited
Oh fashion, capricious creature thou!
With great good fortune I'd thee endow
If thou wouldst just come forth and say
That purple shirts are now passé.

 
   
  
  
   

  
 

BASKETBALL
| ~~ Mount A at Dal
_. Tues. Feb. 15.
Dal at Acadia
Thurs. Feb. 17
Dal vs. Dal Grads
Cubs vs. Kings
CO-ED BASKETBALL
Sat. Feb. 12
Dal at Acadia
Dal vs. Y. W. C. A.

-.. Battling all the way in a vain attempt to pull out a victory over the
speedy Truro Bearcats, the Dal Hockey team once more went down to defeat in a hard fought sturggle at Truro
on Monday night. Behind in the scoring most of the time, the Tigers were
forced to put on their famous power
play during the greater part of the
game. After Taylor, who has always
been a thorn in the side of the College
boys, sank the opening marker early
in the first period, the Bengals roared
in on the Truro goal time after time
only to see their efforts come to grief
when in scoring position.
re The game was played on water cov| i ered ice but despie this drawback, both
i. teanis showed many nice combination
plays and plenty of speed. The ganga. ing attack of the Tigers bolted the
| Bearcats but on the other hand the
Truro boys play was more polished.
After six and a half minutes of the
opening period, Taylor shot the Bearcats into the lead after circling the Dal
net. Jack Buckley evened the count
after fifteen minutes completely fooling the Truro rearguard. Cummings
put Truro one up shortly after when he
‘scored on Ryan’s pass.
se ees | Early i in the second frame, Beswanga, : er went through on a solo rush to give
B _ Truro a 8-1 lead. Two minutes from

re play a, to click and Conn and ‘DeWolfe scored within forty-five seconds
of each other.

In the last canto Buckley accident
ally hit the referee while falling and was
given a five minute rest in the cooler.
! _ While he was off Burgess and Lawrence
a tallied to put Truro two up. At the
fifteen minute mark MacGregor scored
to reduce Truro’s lead to one goal,but
ie. the Dal boys just couldn’t get the
- cy puck into the net for the all-important
score which would have sent the game
: ie into overtime and the final score was 5-4
re. in favour of Truro.
) Dal Line-up:—Goal, Koretsky; deT. fence, Macdonald, MacGregor; ,for| wards, Mont, DeWolfe, Conn, Buckley
| Collins, Corston.

———
| =
: Cubs Meet Army

In a poorly played but exciting Intermediate tilt at the Dal gym last
| Saturday, the Cubs battled it out witha
|

 

 

 

a Garrison quintet in a game in which no
Winner was decided. Both teams

Pe _ claimed a win but due to several errors
| in the scoring, no decision was made
z* and it was agreed to replay the match
| . at a future date. The Tigers displayed
a much poorer brand of basketball than
ls usual, but the Garrison squad showed
evidences of improvement in every department of the game since their first
set-to with the Tigers at the Y.

,

} The Tigers took the lead from the
es, opening top-off but the R. C. E, team
| were not long in extinguishing the
‘
i

margin with several lovely shots.

| +The Garrison had the best of play in
this ‘half and were several points
ia up at the interval, The Campus team

were able to throw in enough leather

in the final canto to almost tie the score.

is In the dying moments of the game the

ae” - Cubs took contro! of the play and made
| little effort to score, being under the
impression that they had a good lead.

. ‘Tt was thought by all that Dal had

. won the game but on checking scores a
_-— disagreement arose. It was agreed
to replay the game.

| The Dal line-up:—A Hart 8, J. Hutsae ton, Lipton, MacKenzie 7, Lyall 2,
E. Stewart 8, Cameron, Colwell 5,
nee. Baycroft.

hes Mes.
a
ran a
+
s.<
. |
,
as OE ae
7 aoe )
iat ane
a Le a
‘hae

>

__ the end of the period the Tigers power

 

 

          
 
 
  
  
   
  

Pair of Hard Games Windup
- Hockey Season for Dal Sauiad

Blasting their way through a weak
Dalhousie defence, New Glasgow Seven
Up's outscored the Tigers 3-2 in each
of the three periods to defeat the Dalhousie team 9-6.

Although it was Dalhousie’s home
game, the city boys elected to travel to
New Glasgow and play there rather
than risk playing in Halifax when they
have secured very poor support from
the Dal students and hockey fans in
general. The Tigers were much impressed by the fine reception given them
on their first two trips to New Glasgow
and in appreciation of the very fine way
in which they were treated while in
the steel town, they decided to take
their final home game of the year there.

The Seven Up’s were impressive in
every department of the game, and,
after Dalhousie had blown a two goal
lead in the opening period, they kept
the game pretty well in control. Foster Dickson was in fine form for the
New Glasgow team and scored four
of their goals. While the Collegians
were all turning in good performances,
it was Jack Buckley ‘the Little Master”
who stole the show, and caught the
eye of the crowd with a sparkling exhibition of speed and stickhandling.
Buckley scored two goals and also assisted in another two, and just to show
that the scoring jinx, which has hung
over the Tigers all season had not left
them, he hit the goal post at least a
dozen times.

The win practically assured the New
Glasgow boys of first place in the
standing while it left the Dal team in
the precarious position of being eliminated if the Halifax Healigonians get
even a show in their remaining two
games.

In the first period MacGregor shot
Dal into the lead on a pass from Conn
less than two minutes after the game
begun. Collins took Buckley's pass
to increase the lead to two. New
Glasgow then scored six goals before
Buckley came through with two more
markers on passes from DeWolfe and
Conn. Inthe last period the Dal goals
were registered by Mont on a pass
from Collins and DeWolfe on Buckley's
assist.

Dal line-up:—Goal, Horetsky. Defence, Macdonald, MacGregor,; Forwards, Mont, DeWolfe, Conn, Buckley,
Collins, Corston.

 

Supports Korning
(Continued from Page 1)

students, who cannot be held responsible if anything happens or is stolen.
(With his permission the building is
left under my charge when badminton
matches are played, and students will
bear witness that I extinguish the
lights, etc., double-lock the front door,
etc., with my own hands.)

Last night, after the concert, the
janitor asked these students to go home
as he was about to close the building.
They refused. Mr. Korning then asked them to leave. They still refused
to go. So the door was locked, as
usual, Mr. Korning having stated that
the door would belockedand they could
not get out, to which they replied that
they would get out somehow or other.

This was deliberate insubordination;
temporary suspension from the privileges of the gymnasium would, in my opinion, have been the appropriate penalty. As it was, a letter of warning was
sent to one of the party, partly because
only four of the Senate Gymnasium
Committee were left, it was then a
quarter to two and we did not want to
summon another meeting for more
drastic action.

C. H. Mercer.

 

DALHOUSIE (¢ GAZETTE

 

February, 11th, 1938

ES PLAYOFF BIRTH AS LEAGUE ENDS

 

 

Mt. A. vs. Dal at Gym Saturday

Seniors Meet .

d Mt. A. Quintette

Two first class net matches are scheduled for Saturday night in the Gym. |
The crack Mount Allison squad is
journeying down from Sackville to
tangle once again with the Tigers in
what promises to be an epic battle between the ancient rivals, and the Co-ed
Basketeers are opening their season
with a match against the strong Halifax Y. W. C. A. team.

The visit of the Seckville collegians
to the Dalhousie campus is always
looked forward to with pleasure and
the match is every year one of the best
and most spectacular of the season.
The Tigers seem to be in fine shape
for the contest, they were impressive
last week in downing the Wanderers
squad and with the rough spots polished up by a week's extra practice and
last night’s senior league tussle they
should turn in one of their best efforts.
Advance reports of the New Brunswick
squad are meager but they do say that
the last year’s Dominion Intermediate
Champs have lost none of the power
they displiyed last season.

Co-eds vs. Y. W. C. A.

In the first game of the evening our

Co-eds, who have been practicing so

faithfully the last month and more
stack up against the Y. W. in their
initial match of the season. The Dal

girls are expected to put up a stiff
battle with the strong city tean;, most
of last years squad are on hand again
this year.

The first game will get under way at
7.30 P. M. and the second is set fer
one hour later so don’t forget to turn
out Saturday night.

Co-eds Active

Girls activities in the field of sport
have started seriously since the Christmas vacation.

First, ice hockey. The girls have
been out to practice as often as weather
permits. Under the circumstances, not
having a proper rink to practice in
the Carleton Courts served the purpose very well indeed. How about
another Dalhousie night with the
band, etc? We had a good start. Why
not keep up the good work?

The basketball team has started the
season very successfully. The Halifax
Academy and ‘‘Maple Leafs’’ have been
played in friendly matches with the
co-eds coming out on top each time.
Monday Feb. 7 a game was played
with the Y. W. C. A. the result was a
tie, 36-36. The game was a fast one.
The team consists of the following players—

Guards—Phyllis Hendry, Rita Harrison, Marjorie Wood, Peggy Gorham.

Centres—Florence Armstrong, Joan
Anderson.

 

Forwards—‘'Carly”’ Sullivan, Esther Dauphinee, Joan Blackwood, Margaret Hall.

Due to a strained muscle, Peggy

Gorham will not be*playing in the opening games of the league and Barbara
Schwartz is playing guard in her place.

The Intercollegiate League
Saturday, Feb. 12 at Acadia.
housie playing Acadia.

An Exhibition game will be staged
Saturday, Feb. 12 at 7.80 with the
Y. W.C. A. It will be played previous
to the boys game with Mount A,

opens
Dal
Chairman Explains

(Continued from Page 1)

incident. Several letters on the subject have been received, three of which
are published in these pages, two from
students and one from Professor C. H.
Mercer, Chairman of the Senate Gymnasium Committee, who very kindly
consented to explain the stand of the
Committee regarding the matter,

Meds Top Artsmen

The curtain was rung up this week
'on the current season's edition of the
| Interfaculty Hockey League. On

Monday at 6 p. m. the Medicine and
Arts and Science Stalwarts buckled on

 
 
    
    
 
    

 

 

 

Gold Standard

(Continued from Page 1)

jealously guarded the admirable close
association with,

 

and co-operation from
cur medical faculty in all student mat
 

the blades and tangled in a good fast |

game which had _ everything
sparkling hockey to a free for all. It
all ended with the Meds on top by a
5 to 2 score.
Forum again rang with the sounds of
battle as the Engineers dished out

body-checked hard enough and fast

enough to eke out a 2-1 decision over |

the speedsters from Law.

—<$<$<— o—-——_.

The Students’ Side

(Continued from P.ge 1)

Theakston states that the Gymnasium
is to close at 1l p. m. Is Korning to
make his own rules and regulations?

Are the students going to tolerate this |

uncalled-for interference?

It has taken years for the Glee Club
to gain its position on the campus, and
this year, when it is struggling to maintain its standing it is ha mpered at every
turn by a domineering gym instructor.
Are we going to tolerate this situation
or are we going to stand up for our
rights and demand that we, the students of Dalhousie University, be given
back the privileges which have been
so rudely snatched from us. Why have
a gymnasium at all if it is not for the
use of the students? We do not make
preposterous demands—we only want
our rights.

Anti-Fascist.

The above is part of a letter received
by the Gazette this week for publication. We have taken the liberty to
delete certain passages which in our
opinion would add nothing to the
strength of the grievance presented
and would only confuse the issue. We
fully realize that even as it stands the
letter presents one side of a disagreement, the other side of which has not
been put before you. A representative
of the Gazette will interview the Physical Instructor and try to get the full
facts of dictatorial policy alleged by
the writer of the above letter.—Editor,

THOMAS WALLACE

SONS and DAUGHTERS

 

 

SIGHT SPECIALISTS

Y. M. C. A. BUILDING
Halifax, N. S.

OAK HALL BUILDING
Sydney, N. S.

“If You Want to See Well See
Wallace”

SONJA
HENIE
IN

“HAPPY
LANDING’’
NOW
CAPITOL

 

from |

On Wednesday night the |

ters.

We note too with humility
adverse Dalhousie has been receiving of late. If
Halifax

weekly

some
the advertising which
our budding columnists to the
Dailies

wage by

make their
the
affairs at our University it seems to me

| most unethical

cannot

reporting true state of

and cowardly to jeop
 

 

ardize our fair name by sensationalizing
minor student grievances and minority
opinions from the Campus. This past
year has supplied the newspapers and
the public with the
| Dalhousie discontent because it has no
beer parlors, its
| Co-eds are refused the company of their
male friends and of a student body up

impression of a

disgruntled because

in arms against the decisions of an

 

|‘‘aloof’”’ faculty. While such news
items should be recorded without exaggeration in our colleye paper, there

does not appear to be any reason for its
receiving province wide publicity as a
/news item penned by a distorted mind.
There has been
late regarding a student boycott of such
dailies which persist in reporting untruths and tommy rot about Dalhousie.
We contend that that is unfair retaliation, yet this proposal itself is significant of our reaction to the judgment
of those editors who do persist in publishing highly coloured and often misleading accounts of College activities.

some suggestion of

I thank you,

J. Roy Gold.

Editor s note—There has been no

mention in the Gazetie of beer parlors
being either wanted or not wanted at

Dalhousie this year. Age must be

creeping upon Mr. Gold. The famous

Beer Parlor story happened in the Fall
of 1935.

ae Se —

 

      

HOCKEY

| RESULTS

Truro 5 Dal 4
New Glasgow 9 Dal 6
Meds 5 A. &S. 2
Eng. 2 Law 1
BASKETBALL
Med. 29 A. & S. 22
Law 27 Med. 16
SOFTBALL
Law 26 ~ Dent. 11
Med. 18 A. & S.6

Gabe Dictested

The smoothly working King’s team
overcame a disorganized outfit of Cub
at the Dal gym last night
to the tune of 43-21 in a regular Intermediate fixture.
man defence, the Tigers were unable to
keep the
check and the

hoopsters
Trying out a Man to
2 5

speedy King’s forwards in

blue and white squad

threw in leather from all angles. The
King’s team maintained a strong de
fense and kept the Cubs in the lower
end of the scoring throughout the game.

The two teams battled on even terms

for the first few minutes but soon King’s

opened the scoring. The play was
fairly even in this half but Dal was
left six points down at the intermis
sion. In the latter part of the contest
the Bengals tried hard to make up the
lead but the King's quintet with clever
ballcontrol and fast passing kept dropshot. Dal’s eftorts

ping in shot after

for scoring were disturbed bv. the

quick breaking King's men who kept

them from playing good offensive
basketball by constant long passing
and speedy plays.

The Cubs looked out of place in the

man to man defence system and we
hope that a return to the five man defence will help them to win some of

the remaining games.

Dal
MacKenzie 3,
Stewart 7,
Cameron.

Lyalt-4,
Sth)
Mercer

line-up:—Colwell 4,
Hutton 1, Hart
Lipton 2, Baycroft,

 

Insist on getting

Donovan’s Beverages
including

Dublin Dry Ginger Ale

Donovan’s Orange Juice

15—different flavours—15

W.H. DONOVAN

45 Granville St. B-6821

 

 

DALHOUSIANS

REMEMBER
THE

REUNION
AT HALIFAX, N. S.
IN AUGUST, 1938

COMMEMORATING THE BIRTH OF

YOUR UNIVERSITY

IN 1818

AND THE BEGINNING OF TEACHING

IN 1838

J.S. ROPER,
Reunion Chairman,

Halifax, N. S.

 

 
