  

 

 

 

Vs.

Wanderers
at

Studley Sat.

 

 

 

‘eae LXVIIL.

Dalhousie

‘* THE COLLEGE

    
 
 
    
  
 

 

HALIFAX, N. S., OCTOBER “Sissel ae ge SE 1937

 

 

 

 

Med Ball

at

Nova Scotian

Thurs. 9 P. M.

No. 4

 

GLEE CLUB PRESIDENT DEFIANT OF COUNCIL

‘Council Refuses The Budget

 

University Authorities Say
Commerce Will Continue

Letters have been received at The*®

Gazette office and many questions
have been asked us concerning the
pressing matter of the Commerce Department. As a result of all this inquiry and partly to relieve us of any
further annoyance we interviewed the
University Authorities on this subject
and we were entirely satisfied by their
answer.

As everyone knows the Commerce
Department was thrown into confusion
by the sudden resignation of Professor
MacDonald, the head of this Faculty.
It occurred late in the summer and no
appointment to fill the position has as
yet been made.

Contrary to what many people have
thought, however, the University has
not forgotten Commerce. The chief
reason to account for the delay is their
desire to have, in the future, a school
which will fulfill the wishes of the legacy
left to Dalhousie for this purpose,
namely, one which will completely
equip all students for a business life.
The sudden withdrawal of Professor

“MacDonald put the University in an

embarrassing position, but rather than
appoint a successor unworthy of the
task, the authorities have decided to
wait until a suitable man can be chosen
and the Department completely reorganized. To this end consultations
will be had with the Deans of the Commerce Schools of Harvard and McGill and their advice will be utilised
before any action is taken. Any difficulties should be smoothed out within
a month, and by that time some decision will in all probability have been
reached. We have the fullest confidence that within a reasonable time
the Commerce Department will function again, and we pass this information on to the Student Body in the
sincere hope that they will think likewise. Dalhousie has not the slightest
intention of abolishing this faculty,
and we trust that all students will be
satisfied by this information.

 

Glee Club Show

This year’s Freshman show is expected to be a howling success. Tentative plans include a three-act play,
minstrel show, and novelty numbers.
The girls were most enthusiastic about
turning out, but the directors are proffering the proverbial cheese to the
men or mice in the class of '41. If we
are any judge, there should be plenty
of males in this class who would feel
perfectly at home in “One Mad Night,”
the play to be presented. It’s a little
late to tel! us that you're shy, boys.
We know better!

Members of the cast include Rose
Goodman, Jean Phillips, Joan Young,
Ralph Lewis, Ralph Young, and
others. If your nerves are bad, or
you feel yourself on the verge of something or other, better stay home
Remember, we warned you!

 

Voices Greeting

 

 

| PRES. CARLETON STANLEY

Pres. Stanley voiced a warm greeting
to the students of Dalhousie in his
annual address which took place in
the Gymnasium yesterday at noon.
He wished them a happy and successful
career at the University.

 

Favours Return

of Radio Hour

With many asking whether there is
going to be a Dalhousie Radio Hour
this year, and with the general interest
in boosting Dal with the Reunion in
the offing, it is high time somebody
brought up the subject. Last year
from January to March a very successful hour of “Dalhousie on the Air"’ was
conducted over CHNS. Starting as
as idea in the heads of Doug Crease and
Ian MacKeigan, the editors of last
year’s Gazette, and being given full
backing by the Council and alumni,
the radio programmes, conducted by
an able committee under the chairmanship of ‘‘Golden-voice’” John Fisher,
covered a wide range of topics.

Among the varied series were musical
programmes, interviews and _ discussions On sports, world problems, fashions and what have you. Dished up
in an appetizing form for the public
of the air, these programmes carried
the name and fame of Dalhousie to
far distant places. Although all the
programmes were not perfect, many
reached a high standard and served a
great purpose in helping ‘‘publicize”’
the university.

Why are we not having them this
year? It cannot be that talent is
lacking. All that is needed is for somebody to get things going. Here is a
great opportunity for students to help
the University and to gain valuable
experience. It is not to be wasted!

 

  

   

 

ANNUAL MED BALL,

Jerry Naugler’s Orchestra
Novelties and Favours

ee nen

Debaters Chosen

 

Supreme Moot

In Close Contest Court of Dalhousie

At the try-outs for the N. F.C. U.S
debate held on Tuesday in the Arts
building, Jack Finlay and Bob Wallick
were chosen from eleven
who provided the best set of speeches
of this kind heard at Dalhousie in recent years. The successful speakers
will uphold the affirmative of the resolution ‘‘that the sit-down strike is a
just weapon in the hands of organized
labour,” against the visiting team composed of Mr. Sidney J. Davis of Bishop’s
University and Mr. J. A. Dunn of Macdonald College. The debate will be
held in the gymnasium on November
twelfth.

Mr. Finlay, the leader of the team,

a student in his first year at the Law
School. He has had a great deal of
experience in debate, both at St. Mary's
College and more recently at Dal, and
from his showing at the tryouts, gives
promise of greater future successes.
Mr. Wallick is a student in the Faculty
of Dentistry. He came to Dalhousie
from New York University where he
was a member of the first intercol
legiate debating team. His impassioned plea at the tryouts on behalf of
the common man leads us to believe
that he will make a most eloquent and
forceful final speaker for the aftirmative.

The judges of the speeches were
Professors Cowan, Curtis and Wilson.
When their decision was announced,
the judges asked that all contestants
be congratulated on their fine showings,
and urged to continue their efforts in
debate.

In addition to those chosen for the
team, Messrs. Dickey, Housser, Kitz,
Lane, MacKean, Lynch and Smith,
all delivered fine orations sufficiently
good to win them positions on many
intercollegiate teams. The executive
of Sodales congratulates them.

  
 

aad
3 Days Starting Oct. 23 CASINO

contestants |

 

Shades of Ashby v.
again called into being, Friday last at
the Forrest Building as the familiar
Moot Court scene framed itself for its
annual jousting. Fred Fitzpatrick and
Rowan Coleman appealed and responded while Dignity represented by JustThorpe and Beard in
flowing gown and flowing tongue judicated the counsel’s claims.

Coleman, not beautiful to look upon
showed there is a great deal more in
him than at first sight one would natsuppose there was. Fitzpatrick
seemed one strangely and mysteriously

ices Cameron,

urally

'gifted and who by assiduous study and

travel has in great part overcome his
Newfoundland origin.

Beauty too, had its place in this
auspicious commencement as it loaned
its grace in the person of Miss Jean
Giovanetti. As junior counsel of the
appellant, Mr. N. G. Bagg assisted
Mr.
of English diction so embarrassed the
court that Justice Thorpe groomed his
hair and then scratched soup stains
from his vest.

Mr. Justice Thorpe began dissenting
when Fitzpatrick first articulated and
when all was done still dissented.
Once Toar interrupted gasped, framed
a question mark, pawed the air, lost
his question and sinking back deflated

into his chair, finally concurred with
Cameron, C. J., who sat through the
barrage with unassumming dignity.

Tuesday, the scene was the same;
the personages had changed but there
was little improvement. Reg Ash was
appellant differentiated himself
by being louder and longer than his
Clarence Keddy the respondent happily disclosed no disposito exhuberance the court's

and
predecessors.

tion and

record for argumentive endurance was
seriously

not threatened.

JOAN DAVIS
TONY MARTIN
Gioria STUART

FRED STONE « NAT PENDLETON
ED THORGERSEN> DICK BALDWIN
JOAN MARSH + DIXIE DUNBAR
JED PROUTY > MAURICE CASS
MARIORIE WEAVER +). C. NUGENT.

 

Folhurst were

 

Coleman and his flattering gems’

 

 

As Presented By Glee Club

Arrange Mestiag|

For Dal Students

What with, War—on two continents,

unprecedented armament race,
racial prejudice passing over into open
persecution, anti democratic political
theories commanding the allegiance of
youth, it’s important that students of
Dalhousie University should manifest
interest problems of international importance.

Fully realizing the close proximity
that the students of today and the
leaders of tomorrow have with this
problem, certain persons on the campus have arranged to give Dalhousians
an opportunity to gain an insight into
the graveness of the _ international
situation.

There will be a general meeting of
the student body of Dalhousie in the
interests of the National Conference
of Canadian University Students on
Tuesday, October 26 in the Chemistry
theatre at 12 noon. At this- meeting
Prof. Geo. E. Wilson of the department of history of this university will
deliver and address on ‘Problems of
Canadians in the World Order.”
Margaret Kinney, travelling in the
interests of the National conference
and a student of McGill University
will make a brief address. Be
sure to attend!

an

an in

also

 

Notice To Girls

The girls who have been trying so
hard to secure donations for the Community Chest might employ with
greater success the system just recently
installed by the McCarthy Cottage
girls at the University of Syracuse,
New York. Escorts of McCarthy
girls must drop a coin into a silver
bowl for every goodnight kiss. Shirreff Hall, as an added incentive, might
institute special week end rates of
thirty kisses for a quarter, maybe?

The Med Ball

The social event of the season has
been announced—the Med Ball. In
keeping with the reputation it has always enjoyed for real merriment, carefree atmosphere and yet an air of dignity, the doctors party has more to attract than ever before.

Dalhousians always look to the professional school to provide the most
unforgettable parties of the year and
with that thought in mind the Medical
Society are sparing neither time nor
expense to make the annual strike a
new high level of entertainment.

Naugler’s lilting music coupled with
the added effects of novelties and
favors, will provide an evening delightfully spent for our most
party goers.

 

fastidious

NOVA SCOTIAN HOTEL

THURSDAY, OCT. 28th, 9 p.m.
- $3.00 Per Couple

“The Council has told the executive
that they have a lack of confidence in
it and that it is no good at all.’"’ These
words were thrown at the Students’
Council Tuesday night by President
Hazen Mitchell of the Glee Club during the two-hour fracas in which the
Glee Club executive was trying to present the annual budget.

Campus observers saw a possibility
of Dalhousie being without a Glee
Club this year as defiance was flung
at the Council by the fiery Mr. Mitchell
who definitely refused to take the budget back and re-consider it. ‘I have
done my best,” he yelled, “and I am
sorry, Gentlemen, that you do not see
fit to accept it (the budget) as it is
but I can do no better.’”” This was accentuated by a banging of his first on
the desk and then—‘Perhaps I had
better resign.’’ Loud cries of ‘No,
no,” greeted this last, though a later
offer of resignation drew no audible
comment,

The battle of words started a few
minutes after Business Manager lack
Arnell.attempted to.explain.a proposed
expenditure for “lumber,’’ lasted over
two hours and ended with Councillor
Fred Barton’s motion that the Glee
Club executive be asked to re-present
the budget in more detail. This
President Mitchell! flatly refused to do
before striding from the room followed
by his cohorts.

Prior to the dignified but ineffectual
retreat of the brain trust of the Glee
Club the offer of Councillors Roly
Hurst and Bud MacKenzie to meet the
executive and endeavour to draw up
the budget in more detail was impliedly
accepted by a dead silence.

At least the thespians’
of their budget woke up what would
otherwise have been a routine meeting.
But it seems that Glee Club budgets
always start fireworks, for last
according to Council President
the Club leader walked out
meeting and slammed the door.

There was a touch of anger—a touch
of justice in fact there was a “touch”
for just about everything and all in all
the Council was touched
$4500.

When Mr. Day queried Miss Pentz
as to an increase in the amount budgeted for meals at Delta Gamma meeti
Miss Pentz’s reply was

,
’

presentation

year,
Day,

on the

for almost

‘The girls are
getting bigger this year.’’ Then they
came to the item listed as fees for
$8.00 Mr. Day cross-examined again.
Miss Pentz's reply was: ‘‘The chances
are there won’t be a City League but
you wouldn't want us not to go in if
there was one.”

There was a touch of romance furnished through the courtesy of Miss
Irene Pentz who so beguiled President
“““Tag’’ Day that the President ‘‘tagged” a $22.50 item for sweat pants in
the D. G. A. A. budget. Councillor Hurst entered the melee. ‘I can’t
imagine girls in sweat pants’’ said the
Frosh representative—it must be a
horrible sight—when are they going
to wear them?”

        

 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
    
  
   
  
   
  
  
  
   
  
  
  
   
     

Berar 4 __E, F. MERCHANT.
5 ; B-0254.

Roland Hurst.

Leonard Wit Peggy Merkel.
ees are ae Sports Editor.
DMURPHY. > Me: JOHN DICKEY, B. A.

BeMeey wy  axte 7 B-5545,
ey i ce * | Business Manager.

cei ARMSTRONG, Be
ater 6: 2) 1 BRBTO0.

‘DECREASED BUDGETS.

| With the’ silsekt of a new scholastic year, and a new Council,
tudents begin to wonder what happens to their Student CounFees. As has been the custom in the past the Council, goaded
ya poate: to spend money, budgets for practically every cent
ry have. a year, however, events have taken a turn for the

Bitlis we are S iiseed with a more serious group this year or
-haps more Scottish blood flows when the governing bedy is in
lemn conclave. For it is to be noted that all budgets have taken
a cut, which we hope means that a little money is being set aside.
T 2 very few years entirely new grandstands will have to be built
playing field. When the time comes for this to be done,
t us hope the necessary money will be inthe Council's coffers.
teed wy 08 Councils follow the example of this one there will be

SATURDAY’: GAME.

= wwe
a

ari ers,’ 7 ' so-called by | ‘bg ort writers, lived up
ige the fact that th ines Saturday’s game.
eflection on their name for they put up
) lose what ee
ue’ ‘Title.

   
   
  
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
    
  
 
  
     
  
 
 
  
   
   
   
  
   
  
  
    
  
  
   
   
  
   
     
   
   
  
 
   
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
  
  

  
 

SC ee pear | | u |
n the si of the student body is iohen into
mn. ‘Ooly a superhuman team can be expected to win
ar agent support as. that seen on Saturday:

bi ind in attendance. Great things were exean but they seem to be like the large fire-cracker
ed out toa weak * pop.’ We were told that they could not
| aioe but i in answer to this allow us to say that there

ae

Bi t. ~The ae a shear: leader should also be resurrected. Why
do the D. A. A. C. not make a determined effort to choose a squad
of, leaders, fit them out with suitable uniforms and arranged that
they be schooled in all the antics and postures that accompany
ti iat Sy eekaae: This is the only way to get the student body, proaa) vided they appear at the game, to cheer in unison. If it cannot be
in done this year then at least they should make plans for the next
aavmet ball season. We demand that some action be taken.

: ec aa i f TRUE GENTLEMEN.
is The ‘term, “a college professor,’’ was always rather a fearsome
one in the days before we had experienced University life. In those
days we imagined the famed absent-minded professor as a be
oa bookworm, terrible in his disgust of the stupid one,
hard-hearted, and eagerly seeking an opportunity to bring to a
Rh ms usually at Christmas, the college careers of the down-trod
1 students who sat under his guidance and were subject to his
| ‘ill.

i

Ly PT Turse eee 7 a ee et
a : ’ roan :
Jt

ots ~ Invariably was he absent-minded, putting his wife out at
2s : can and retiring with the cat. The shattering of the absentSr -; mii nded idyl came soon after our attendance at Freshman classes.
That average looking man up there in the front of the lecture room
ex was: anything but absent-minded. Just try and get away without
a weekly theme, or even a late one! _A professor, we found, was

y not absent-minded when dealing with a class.

  

eed, We also found that they are really not so hard-hearted as they
% te en! They are deeply interested in things intellectual and could
not be expected to ignore their duty and pass the backward stu- dent—even though he did study harder than the majority of his
classmates. The modern professor does not elevate himself from
the world. of student activity and often we find that we can honour
= fy stronghol Ids of learning for past, and sometimes present
1 evements in the realm of sport and student life in general.
Io short college professors. are, in the main, true gentlemen
poet for assisting those who appeal to them,
€ to the College Professor, feven if we are ac
is forebearar eile! great provocation offered by
cism, for Ate willingness to assist any worthy student
id for “the os Ent achievement he often uncon
4
A.
hia

=
i he i
dD. a uw 4 ot

s spring to mind.

 

The anomaly of ‘‘Freshie-Sophs

For many years we have accepted
without question the custom of giving
the same treatment to ‘‘freshie-sophs”’
during their first year as to freshmen
of that year. We have watched unstirred while hulking ‘‘freshie-sophs”’
were humiliated by—this the unkindest
cut of all—their fellow-classmen, those
with whom they will some day graduate. We have never asked ourselves
whether cor not the frequent lack of
class-solidarity after the first (year
might be due in’ part to the shift of
the freshie-soph in his second. year
to the junior class, gravely weakening
the sophomores, and mixing enemies
of yesteryear as juniors. Let us then
for a moment examine the origin
and present value of the custom, and
briefly test available alternatives.

I must admit that I can only guess
as to the origin of the custom of mixing
the goats and the sheep, the frosh and
the freshie-soph. No trace of it being
found before the War, it seems probable
that the custom came to Dalhousie
at the same time as the organized
physical initiation which we recently
abolished. In most universities on
the continent any newcomer to the
campus, however advanced his standing, who had not been initiated at
any other institution, was given the
baptism of fire. At Dalhousie this
system was inaugurated to the extent
of including ‘‘freshie-sophs” but not
“freshie-juniors”. The genera! principle was—‘‘Well here is a chap who
was not beaten to a pulp as was [—
let’s give him the works!” An examination of the origins of the custom
thus gives small support to any plea
for its retention.

What are the good features of the
stom which impliedly I have been
Two main ones at once

cu
, | abusing
  

'| the freshman class be “made as strong

ea possible in numbers and in spirit,

t least until ‘it ‘is. firmly on its feet.
nd it is important that the ‘‘freshie
‘Ty sophs”, no less than the freshmen,
| be welcomed to. our midst, and introduced as body to the various activities

|}of the campus. The supporter of
the custom would urge further that
from the practical point of view it is
doubtful whether any distinction could
be made between freshman and ‘‘freshie
-soph”. How could we distinguish
between a ‘“‘freshie-soph”’ and a student
entering with senior matriculation who
intends to take the four years advanced course
The defects of the present system
are—unnecessary humiliation of the
“freshie-soph’”’, unfairness to him by
forcing him in his junior year to join
a class to which he is almost a total
stranger, and, looking at its affect
on the college as a whole, a grave
weakening of the class system. (I
am assuming that since we have the
class system we should make it effective, or else abandon it altogether if
it serves no good purpose).

But in future years can we not
perhaps work out some suitable compromise—retaining most of the advantages, and discarding most of the
disadvantages, of the system of lumping
together freshie and ‘“freshie-soph’’First of all let us cast aside the objec-,
tion that distinction is impracticable—
to determine in What class a student is
we need only ask in what year, in the
ordinary course of affairs, he would
graduate. By exempting the “‘freshiesoph” of the degradations and servitude of frosh life, and by welcoming
him as a full member of the sophomore
class, the disadvantages of the present
system would be climinated. By allowing him to partake in the parties and
frolics of freshman week the main
advantage of the present system would
be preserved. (I discard as of small
importance the argument that the
present system results in a stronger
freshman class. Surely it is more
important that the freshmen learn to
stand upon their own feet, look among
their own ranks for leaders, rather
than be lulled into a false feeling of
strength which is quickly lost in the
sophomore year).

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE ae en

it is important that

Po « itty
ol ican oneal ne epee seninatttterenaagen

October 22nd, 1937

 

|F antasy - - F an cy
and Fact

Last week the Lieutenant-Governor
of Alberta withheld his signature from a
Bill ‘enacted by the legislature of that
province. A legal right resides in the
official of the Crown to stand firm on
any bill and the ignoring of the legislation for a period of one year automatically kills its chances of validification.’ The Lieutenant-Governor as the
representative of the Governor-General has that power.

There resides in the King of England
the same right. The last King-Emperor who tried to use that right was
Charles I. The conventions of government are a stronger force than the
written letter. Public knowledge of
these customs and fear of reigning
bodys to attack these accepted ideas
of government have made them a dead
issue in Canada since the Byng Blunder
in the early twenties. The action of
the Alberta representative of His
Majesty is therefore. quite shocking
and disturbing.

Our opinions of the form of government employed in making the laws is
of no consequence. The laws actually
proclaimed were a re-hashed form of
those banking laws recently disallowed
by the Federal House. When that
issue broke some two weeks ago the
writer amused himself in a skit on the
subject. The situation to-day is a
different matter, The voice of the
people finds expression in the democratic countries by their rightly chosen
representatives. The panaceas and
palaces drawn from the air by a political party do not place it in a different
catagory than the staid cabinet decrees of Mr, Chamberlin, London.

The “symbolic” withdrawal of a few
thousand Italian soldiers is the latest
move of the European chess players.
What importance or effect a removal of
a scant two per cent will make in the
ridding of Spain of foreign volunteersso-called, is hard to comprehend on the
surface. Therearetwo possible interpretations. The first is the possibility
of saving the facesof a people who have

“ls this another ‘touch-and-out’ event—?”
“Yes—you've touched me for my last Sweet Cap and I’m out!”

SWEET CAPORAL CIGARETTES

“The purest form in which tobacco can be smoked.” —{ancet

 

Underwood Typewriters

Portable and Standard Models are sold and serviced
everywhere by Company-owned Branckes.

UNDERWOOD, ELLIOTT, FISHER LIMITED
165 HOLLIS ST.

 

   
  
     
     
 

  

B-7555 B-9727

Che Wade Bros. Taxi

5 and 7 Passenger Cars
UNIFORMED CHAUFFEURS

TO AND FROM DANCES TAKE WADE BROS.

 

When You Need

Eo meke e0mie’ show Ing aster et DRUGS MEDICINES PRESCRIPTIONS
arming apace, is getting back her old or any other Drug Store Merchandise
position of Mediterranean Master.
The first seems the likelier view. You. get better SERVICE and VALUE
The writer respectfully calls atten- at KINLEY’S DRUG STORES | i

tion to the fact that the weather vane :
of the University of King’s College is
approximately twenty degrees from |
proper orientation. The north pointer |
is roughly that many degrees west of
true north.

Bhi a) ee,

Obiter

I was a bit afraid last week that the
editor would not accept my copy.Not that I would have been at all dis- a
appointed, because I have had manuscript rejection slips from some of the
(best?) weeklies in the country.

CINEMA EQIQUETTE

 

 

 

BIRKS || r

BING
CROSBY
MARTHA
RAYE

IN
“DOUBLE
OR
NOTHING”
CAPITOL
NOW

Official College

Jewellery

Designs are available for
class orders.

A problem worthy of much more consideration is why I have to sit ahead

Henry Birks & Sons

of two anonymous film critics every Limited

time I attend the theatre. Of course Diamond Merchants

I realize that all college students, when . &
Halifax

they attend_any of the local picture
palaces, act like little gentlemen, but
this may fall into the hands of some
unfortunate who hasn’t had the benefits of a college training. Such people
are the legitimate objects of derision
by university graduates, but how much
better, if in a tactful way the college
man would tell his ignorant friends not
to talk in the theatre when the actors
are speaking or singing. How much
nicer it would be not to have to listento a panegyric on Clark Gable every
time we were foolish enough to go to
his pictures. Perhaps my complaint
would cure itself if I didn’t go to so
many shows. At least it would be
lessened in aggregate. Some improvement could be made if people would
only sit in the middle row when they
comie early so that late arrivals wouldn't
have to climb all over them and generally block the view of the poor souls
behind them. If remembered, this
may relieve the situation.
(Continued on Page 8)

 

ZIPPER CASES -ALL SIZES MADE TO YOUR ORDER
At Reasonable Prices

KELLY’S LTD.

118 GRANVILLE ST.

Smart Overcoats ...

Choose your overcoat now and have the advantage
of seeing the newest patterns and styles while the
stock is still fresh and new—This year our coats

are smarter than ever before and prices as reasonably as before.

Shane’s Men’s Shop

30 Spring Garden Rd.

 

 

+ The solution which I have suggested
may not be practicable—but, whether
or not that be so, this article will]
have served its purpose if it causes
next year’s sophomores to give the
problem some consideration, rather
than blindly accepting the old way
merely because “we've always done
it that way”,

107% Discount on most lines to Dalhousie students

- > ' af)
eM A Nh A a aumeeens i aAdT Sel 5 * ,

 

 

25

 

 

 
  
   
  
   
    
   
  
    
      
  
  
  
  

Queen’s vs. ‘Dal

Editor’s Note:—Anyone who fails
to think Dalhousie isn’t tops in universities had better see Betty Pearson,
'39, now sojourning at Queen’s University, Kingston as a Dal exchange
student.

(A letter to the editor from Miss Pearson follows:)

we Ba ae is eiebodiea in
two lines! We are so prone in
‘ ticism to select the bad and over
gi “credit eet credit is due,
pe this in mind we extend

a RCHIDS TO

“I want to say at the very beginning
that the writer of this article is strongly
predjudiced in favour of Dalhousie:
When one comes from a family of Dalhousians, one is born and bred in the
-| gold and black tradition. So if I seem
to stoop at times to favouritism will
you forgive me as I have honestly tried
to be just?

f A our enlightened gynecologist
wees to think that actions speak
- Jouder than words.

por. ee eetietions on

    
 

big question is that of tnitition. They
are gradually cutting down the amount
of paraphernalia worn in past years by
Queen's Frosh so that this year all the
freshettes have to wear is a red beret
instead of ‘1) one, plaque with name
and weight on it (2) one white one
black cotton stocking (8) red beret and
(4) no make-up. This was all enforced
the year before. This year all the
freshmen have to do so far is to wear a
huge navy blue tam that flops over one
ear. I don’t think many of the students at Dalhousie realize what strides
were made the year they cut this sort
of thing from their initiation. Here,
they also accomplish a great deal by
entertaining the Freshmen, as do you
right at the very beginning of the year.
At Queen’s they have a Freshman Reception but it does not come off until
two weeks after registration and in
consequence the incoming class starts
out at college knowing very few of their
classmates.

for adding mountain

    

Frazer Harris:

  

peice latest achievement being Mount
Bn a St, Vincent (Alsace LAURAINE).
f _ The Fourth Year Class: for their
ar. on the white coat situation.
i _ They gave no quarter, hence are saving
a ‘quarter each week.

forge Try as we may we still find ourselve

iy ae

ane __ reverting to type by extending:

ae sche -AN EGG PLANT to my dental colTeague who has the audacity to criti
o

|» elec: the the meds in the same column

ae
in which he is guilty of questionable
mS Res

. ethics in copying the initials and sig
Bd ture of our column. Let it never be

3 thought that we are one and the same.
7a

n>. A friend's a friend and a med’s a med

     

     
 

    
    

> i

   

era:

    

    
       
    

      
        
  

  
    

 
   
 
 

  

but when it comes to matters of the
rr leart it’s every man for himself. Isn't

 
  
  
  

  

They have a Glee as well as a Dramatic club at Queen’s. The Dramatic
Guild is given no financial aid by the
Queen's “‘students council,” the Alma
Mater Society,they have to depend upon
the success of their plays for financial
support and because they charge adinittance they have to pay correspondingly large royalities for the plays. |
wonder if the Dal Glee Club could
survive such treatment?

    
   

Pi rectieniient: After two
yee y build up he is forced to take a
bi ae seat ree a first yeas man takes

aes g
: hee ‘aly

    

    
   
 
  

By
i

 
 

y the Echeies:

ty

TION WHICH SHOULD BE

  
        

Gallant young oe of second :
r supplied liqu id. refreshments at a} Phe girls in the residences are allowed

genet one, Ges ts night? -|a great deal more freedom than at
ms rane : ted his usual pas- Shirreff Hall but seem to live on!y for
rs 2 rider—tir from their work. © (For those Hall girls who

| . are interested and understand such
things, Sophs, Juniors and Seniors are
all allowed one “two-thirty” leave a
week and three “twelve-thirties.”
nee are allowed to stay out until
eleven every night without a leave but
on Saturday night everyone has to be
in by one, on Sundays, by eleven-thirty.
Console yourselves, however, for there
are no places like the Nova Scotian
Hotel in Kingston and only two movies
to see, so the temptations are not so
great.

    

    
  

   
   
  
 
 
 
    

We : c tes en. toe Sige cane
: of the ae eae Party.

  
    

ee cis ma Pa What are you studying
~ tonight Van?

Van Horne: Bacteriology— Not
i feat I love Cunningham less but that I
_ ove Ritchie Muir.

          
     
 

 

 
   
   

   

ALS There has been a lot of talk in the
Bch es past few years about Dalhousie lackMe Pine Hill Vignettes ing ‘‘college spirit,’’ whatever that may

ee be. All I can say is—don’t you believe it. You have hit the happy
medium at that dear old ‘college by the
sea,’’ you are neither cold intellectuals
nor ranting rah-rah boys. Keep to it.
Let the freshmen use up their waste
energy, if they want, with their theatre
parties but you, upper classmen do
things for Dalhousie that are going to
last and “love that well which thou
must leave ere long.”

    
 

_._ There are long faces around the resi- dence this week. Dr. J. S. Thompson
ae Bh oeraerly Dean of the Residence and
a now President of the University of
) ‘Saskatchewan was asked to kick off at
| the first game of the football seaso.
It is rumoured that after taking a long
run, Dr. Thompson kicked—and miss| ed: It’s a fact, they say.
| The theologues are in, which means
that life begins anew. Everything is
set, now something must happen.
_ (See this column next week.)
_  Flash—there has been a general exdus (a going out) from the Residence.
_ Some of the younger Meds couldn't
_ stand the long walk. Or is there another reason?
Melvin Brown seems to have set a
precedent. Several of the Freshmen
are trembling in their shoes. For the

       
      
 

  
   
     

        
       
       
       
    

 

  
 

  

   

October Night

O Lamp of Night—Thou Dian's orb
above,

With softest rays you pierce the mid-,
night gloom,

And through your mantle of the fleecy

      
       
     
     
       
     
 

cs benefit of the said Freshmen, the word clouds
-“tubbing,” which they may have heard| You come into this house—into this
mentioned, means (in collegiate slang) room.

 
 

e sudden immersion in a cold bath at
2A,M
- Social news: Henry Ballem enter
tained at a delightful birthday party
in room 62 last week. The most dis_ tinguished guest was R. P. Condon,
~ formerly of the University of Mount
“a n. Thanks are being extended to
ba oe Phinney for his generous con| oe of doughnuts. (Oh—how
~ could we ever forget them!)
“Would it be justifiable homicide for
someon to slay Wallie Sellars grandcher? ‘
As Don Whitman's last name really
4 Psu?

ok out girls, Pat Patton has cut

   

A silver pathway on my floor you trace

With shadows now of softly quivering
leaves,

As through the chill of early autumn’s
night

There floats the moonlight magic of a
breeze.

   

é ~

      
    
      
    

  

     
 

  

Now on the bay the rippling water
gleams,

As lighted darts from goddess’ quiver

fly,

And glancing sharply from the shimmering tide,

With diamond lights bejewel the enchanted sky.

    

  

      
     
       
   
 

—AN.

This fall at Queen’s naturally the.

 

|

  

me

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

To the Co-eds

First we must justify the title of,
this column. It's written ‘To the
Co-eds” because we frankly admit
that the tastes of man baffle us and
have baffled us for many years,—or
to be specific, ever since we commenced
reading Dotty Dix’ column. We hear
that men do not like a clever girl but
yet the type “beautiful but dumb” has
long since been spurned. Then a girl
must not attract attention by her
clothes for it makes her escort feel conspicuous. But if she is inconspicuously dressed she rarely has an escort.
If she uses rouge, lipstick, etc., they
want simplicity, but if she doesn’t
she’s not even noticed. In everything,
it seems, men are contradictory. So,
believing that their literary tastes are
just as perverse, we write this ‘‘To the
Co-eds,” expecting, but really not expecting, that the men will read it.

 

Marriage hasagain become a popular
objective of the college girl, according t
statistics by somebody; according t

statistics by somebody else, cnl:
slightly more than fifty per cent cf
college girls get married. What can

we believe?

 

Why should men’s clothes be so
drab- The most somber of our 17th
century forerunners was festive com
pared to the men of to-day. There is
probably some historical coincidence
en which one could base a theory, if
one knew any history. We hope it is
not psychological. A similar lack of
animation would surely presage ill.

This is a short I Q test to find out
what the Dal freshette has learned
in three weeks of college.

Who is the president of the Students
Council-_‘‘Red”” Payne, Charlie McCarthy, “Tag” Day?

Whatisthe D.G, A.C? A fraternity,
an athletic club, a debating society.

What is “trucking?” <A form of getting something somewhere, a type of
dance, a method used in football.

What 1s a theme? A piece of music,
a serial story, an essay.

What is a “first?” First place in an
athletic team, a high mark inan exam,
“first come, first served.”

One of these is physical diréctor at
Dalhousies Miss Irene. Pentz, Miss
Anna McKeen, Miss Anna McLean.

We invite comment on and contributions for this column. We do not
promise to heed all comment or accept
all contributions, but hope we will
reach an average taste for all co-eds,
perhaps for even the baffling male.

The Colleges Say

REASONS POLITIC

“It's fun to bea Communist,

And wear a bright red tie,

While planning how the bleated rich
Are horribly to die.

“It's fun to be a Capitalist

Squint sideways down your nose,
And teach the under dog his place,
With sneers, dislike and blows.

‘“‘And so I’m always either one,
Depending on my money;

It gives me lots of glorious fun,
As both of them are funny.

‘And so I’m always either one,
‘Depending which is best;
And in this am I| no different,
From any of the rest.”
—‘McGill Daily.,’

“Poppa, what’s a grudge—”

“It’s what you keep the car in.”—
“The Manitoban.,”’

LET US GO AND DO LIKEWISE

 

A Wasserman test for syphilis and a
tuberculin test will be given to all
freshmen at the University of Oklahoma this year. For upperclassmen
the tests will be optional. Students
who show a positive reaction to the
Wasserman test will be required to take
treatment in compliance with the law
which stipulates that any person with
syphilis must be treated until he is

The tests are being made in cooperation with the state board of health’
—"Syracuse Daily Orange.”

With sadness in our hearts,

We buried Sam O'Day:

He lived the life of Riley,

While Riley was away.

— ‘The Manitoban.”

  

{

Obiter

Continued from Page 2)

PROBLEM

O tempora, O mores. (My exhausting study of Latin again.) What
shall I write about this week— I might
mention that mysterious disappearance
of the Commerce Department from the
campus, but that has been before the
public eye for some time and nothing
has been done, so why disturb procrastinators. I might slam the League of
Nations, and make some sarcastic remark about the probabilities of Japan
signing a condemnation of the action of
the League. It would be as effective
as League actions. But I fear the
League has been slammed too much.
Besides I don’t believe in’ sarcasm.
Again I might follow the American
custom and anticipate news like the
commentatcrs did in the famous case

of Baldwin v. Windsor, (19386 H. of C.
lL,’ but as a journalist I cannct express
approval of such rapid methods. It
is best to let the event take place before announcing it in the newsp apers
of the country. This custom has always been observed by the best papers.

FOREIGN DEVILS?

There has been a certain amount of
criticism from the galleries re the appointment of a foreigner to the position
of gym instructor. After all we havea
German on the campus to teach German to people who can take it, and
we have a Frenchman to teach us
French. Wealso havea Dane to teach
us Danish exercises. Who else could
put the same spirit into it? And—
incidentally, not that it really matters—
the particular foreigner under fire
happens to be well equipped for his
office. Perhaps the author of the remarks in the local weekly believes in
Canadian isolation, a well worn-out
theory.

 

More Cheers

With all due reverence for the fellowscribe who expounds under the caption ‘‘Fantasy, Fancy and Fact.’’ we
would suggest that his interpretative
criticism of ‘‘Cheers for Democracy”
can be appropriately implanted only
on the middle prong of his journalistic
tripod—that of Fancy.

First of all, the writer of ‘‘Cheers for
Democracy” made no statement that
the basic cause of the Spanish civil
war could be discovered in the illegal
manipulatioh of ballots by the ‘Republican’’ government. Such frustration of the popular will constituted
merely the immediate factor in the out- |

'break of the conflict. The Nation|ists, unlawfully blocked in their attempt to assert, by constitutional

 

means, their views on the fundamental,
yet varied questions under disputes
were finlly cbliged to take to armis,.

Incidentally, this destruction of beatles |
occurred not merely “in a remote province of Spain’’—as our fellow writer alleges—but in every corner of the land
where the government could reasonably expect an overthrow at the polls.
And such corners were many and various.

Secondly, “Cheers for Democracy”’
contained no assrtion—or at least no
intentional assertion—that the Spanish
Republican government rested.”’ Completely in the hands of the Communists.”
Not at all. We ourselves have heard
from government stations several most
effective elegies of Anarchism—a doctrine quite distinct from the precepts
of Lenin. In the patchwork quilt of
anti-Franco forces, moreover, may be
found every shade from pink to maroon.
There are even a few Republicans. But
Bolshevism is the prevailing and pervading influence. Nor would even the
claim that anarchistic, socialistic, communistic and democratic elements are
present in comparatively equal proportion throughout the government
legions arouse any rational desire for
the triumph of the “Republicans.”
With the removal of Franco, the unfortunate nation would be plunged
even deeper in the throes of strife
among those now united under the attractive banner of democracy.

In reference to this last point may be
noted the desertion of the Basques
in their most extreme peril by their
presumable allies—ostensibly, of course
for reasons of necessity and strategy.
But, as Dr. Bethune observed, the
Basques are devoted to their religion, a
loyalty which was not calculated to

(Continued on Page 4)

a a

 

= aia

 

   
   
  

 

 

Halifax Ladies’ College & Conservatory of Music

University Students may register for
Voice Training—either Singing or Public Speaking
Appreciation —popular course—Beethoven’s music.

Instrumental —Violin, Piano, Organ, one or two lessons a week.
Practice rooms available.

Next year —Home Economics. The new four year course.

Phone B-6524

 

BUCKLEY’S
Five
Drug Stores

Serve with Satisfaction

To the Freshman Class

BLAKELEY invites you
To Follow the Example Set by Upper Classmen
in Patronizing the
DALHOUSIE RESTAURANT

Your Needs

May Your Year at Dalhousie
be Fruitful

in

DRUGS-COSMETICS é

BLAKELEY’S

43 Spring Garden Rd.

 

 

 

 

 

Solid Leather Shoes

Outstanding Value, pair 7.00

Shoes built to rigid specifications, of fine leathers and
in smart styles. Of kid or calfskin in blucher and
Balmoral style oxfords, also heavy grained calfskin
leather brogues. Widths A to E and sizes 6 to
11} in the range. A popular regular EATON Line

Eat many men find outstanding both in style and
value

Eaton's Second Floor.

“T EATON

iT I 
Page Three

 

  

“ x
a a

Y tat

=e to

 
 
    
  
 
   
   
 
     

 

 

 

 

|
is i
Poe
7

“
1 Aa
‘.
‘

ee

= >

yards.

drove the Reds right back in their goal

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 

 

 

SCHEDULE
RUGBY
Sat. Oct. 23

Senior
DAL v WANDERERS
Intermediate
DAL v. WANDERERS
Tues. Oct. 26
Intermediate
DAL v. ACADIA

TRACK

Inter-Faculty Meet
Tuesday, Oct. 26

 

Battling Tigers See Title
Hopes Vanish This Year

A fighting band of Tigers who made
it a real battle all the way went down
to a bitter 11-5 defeat at Redland on
Saturday afternoon. Invading the
stronghold of their traditional rivals
for the first time this year the Bengals
forced the Wanderers to show their
best form to date to ward off the Collegian threat. The climax of the hard
fought interesting game was reached
when Dal, literally fighting to the last
ditch, pushed over their try in the last
minute of play.

The first half was fast even rugby
with Dal showing more hard and effective tackling than they have displayed
all year. Wanderers got away to a
three point lead when Joudrey after a
20 yd. run went over the line far out
in the corner. That completed the
scoring for the half but there was action galore before the interval. The
Tigers scrum again showed its superjority by dominating the forward play
but the back-field were inaffective on
the attack. Dal had the territorial
advantage but time and again could
not gain those very necessary last few
Near the end of the half Armstrong gathered up a fumble and raced
away only to be hauled down within
feet of the line. —

- At the second half opened the Tigers

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   

line and did everything but score.
Bus Phillips boosted a long penalty
kick which just missed knotting the
count. The half was well on before
the Wanderers began to threaten the
Dal line but they came back strongly
to dominate the play long enough to
score two tries. Goey Bauld hauled
down a punt and plunged over the
line after a nice run. Miller converted
from a hard angle to make it 8-0.
The Reds completed their scoring
soon afterwards when MacGregor went
over on the nicest play of the day.

Dal now fought more savagely than
ever in a final effort to score. They
kept the play well in Wanderers territory but were held at bay till the last
minute. In the last and most dramatic act of the afternoon, Jack Kerr
gathered up the ball behind a scrum
on the five yard line and ploughed
through a mass of players to cross the
line with but second to go. There was
just time for Bus Phillips to earn the
extra points with a pretty goal.

 

Track and Field

Meet On Tuesday

The Inter-faculty Track Meet will
be held on the Studley Campus at
2.30 P. M., Tuesday, October 21st.
It will follow a regular intermediate
League battle between the Dalhousie
Cubs and the Acadia Intermediates
schedules for 1 P. M.

Entries must be made to the track
managers of each faculty, as soon as
possible to permit them to organize
theirteams. The track managers must
submit complete entry lists to Mr.
Korning not later than Monday, Oct.
25th.

A meeting of the track managers
will be held at the gym at noon Saturday. ;

List of Events

220 yd. Dash Final.
1 Mile Walk.
Running High Jump.
440 yd. Run.

440 yd. Relay.

2.30 100 yd. dash heats.
2.05 Javelin Throw.
3.00 220 yd. Dash Heat.
3.15 Discus Throw.
3.30 100 yd. Dash Final.
3.40 Running Broad Jump.
3.50 Shot Put.
4.00 880 yd. Run.

10

20

20

40

50

ek aoe

scrappiest
ever to answer Red Payne's siren-like
call walked slowly off the Wanderer's
field, decisively beaten.
better Red machine had thwarted their
last hope of capturing the City Football title.
the same Red machine trotted out on
Raymond Field at Acadia and administered a similar beating to the other
college entry in the City League.

team this year or else!
to be the attitude of coach Charlie
Steers a gentlemen with quite a reputation who comes to take over
Tigers after a long experience in the
game having played with some of the
big American hoop squads.
ers have been out for practice at least
twice already
how serious these pre-season workouts
are.

i Can Be Wrong!

by
ROLAND D. HURST

Last Saturday afternoon one of the
Dalhousie football teams
A bigger and

afternoon

On Wednesday

 

a basketball
That seems

Dalhousie is to have

the

The Tig
and to show you just
Coach Steers issued a non-smoking warning to his charges last Wednesday. And boy does he mean it!

Parke the outstanding incident at
last Saturday’s football game was what
the local papers called Dalhousie’s
lack of college spirit in not staging a
raid on Wanderer’s for the Tiger

‘dummy.

One of the downtown papers in commenting upon it referred to the comment of an old Alumnus of Dalhousie
who deplored the student attitude to
the old feud. Well take it for what
you will but this Dalhousian well remembers his attack on the Tiger
dummy two years ago out on the Studley campus when he had his countenance severely squashed in cinders and
when the Red supporters tore a perfectly good overcoat to shreds. On
that occasion several Dalhousians were
hurt and rather seriously. Is it lack
of college spirit or is it common sense?

 

 

“Have you seen the girl’s in sweat
pants?”

That’s the question you hear on
every set of masculine lips around this
campus. Those of you who haven't
seen the spectacle should drop over to
the field some afternoon and view the
horrible sight. As one serious minded
Frosh put it, “It looks to me as though
there were 5 or 6 small buildings moving down the field.”

D.A.A.C. Meeting

The D. A. A. C. held an important
meeting on Tuesday afternoon, Oct.
19th. Ten representatives were present, including the newly-elected secrtary, Byron Hatfield, who assumed
his position for the first time.

The remaining sport budgets were
presented and passed. It has been
decided that new uniforms will be
purchased for the basketball and hockey

 

teams.

It was also decided to purchase a
better grade Badminton Shuttlecock,
complaints having been received from
several quarters regarding the quality
of the present one.

No reply has as yet been received
from King’s regarding the proposition
of their entering Interfaculty sport at
Dalhousie. It looks as if they will be
unable to compete, for as yet no entry
has been received from them re Interfaculty Football.

Flash

The Council of Students in general
meeting, Tuesday evening, October
19th, unanimously passed the budgets

Interfaculty Sports Tuesday

New Mentor

 

VINCE FERGUSON

much
two

Dalhousie students were very
pleased with the announcement
weeks ago by the D. A. A. C. that
Vince Ferguson would coach Dal's
hockey teams this winter. The biggest
obstacle to hockey success at Dalhousie in the past few yers has been a
lack of proper coaching. This appointment promises better things for
the future.

Fergie is well known to Dalhousie
students being one of the finest all
round athletes developed in Halifax
during recent years. Hockey is his
sport, but he is almost as renowned
for his baseball prowess. He _ has
played senior hockey in Halifax fer a
good many years and was a member
of the Halifax Wolverines when they
won the Canadian Amateur Hockey
Championship. For the last two years
as playing coach of the Halifax Tramway’s team he has been more or less
responsible for several Dalhousie de
feats. Having seen the error of his
ways Vince is now going to make
amends.

Bringing to the job of coaching the
Tigers a wealth of ability and experience
Fergie’s presence will certainly show a

great improvement in the team’s pet
formance. The D. A. A. C. executive
is to be congratulated on securing the
services of such a well qualified coach
and we look for big things from the

Tigers this season.
——

Interfaculty

The Frosh scored at least a
victory when they battled out an 8-8
tie with Arts and Science in an Interfaculty Rugby League fixture’ on
Saturday. The upper-classmen pushed
the yearlings round pretty much but
they fought back hard to earn their
tie. Hart went for Arts and
Science first but the Freshmen grabbed
off the Jead when Munro scored and
Hennigar kicked the goal. In_ the
second half they completed their 8
points when James got a try which
went unconverted. Arts Science
with defeat all but upon them came
back strongly and Ed Stewart finally
galloped over the line. MacGregor added the 2 extra points with a
pretty convert.

Law and Medicine indulged in one
of their traditional ding-dong battles
at noon last Saturday, the Meds finally emerging with the closest of close
decisions. Si Miller broke up _ the
game in the last 5 seconds with a
pretty field goal. Up to that time it
had been a strenuous but scoreless affair and though the Godess of fortune
finally favoured the Meds for a long
time it looked as if it would be the
lawyer's game.

moral

Over

and

lan

of the D. A. A. C. without alteration.
Rather a bouquet for Mr. Thompson
and hiscolleagues! —

Basketball Practices
Wednesday and Thursday evenings

at 7 P. M., and Saturdays at 12 noon.

=

Tigers Clash With

Redmen

That highstepping bunch of Redmen
again going to the
Tiger in his lair, but the Bengal is
thoroughly the invader
may have to run for the hurricane
shelters before the final whistle on
Saturday. The cornered Tigers struck
back fiercely at the victorious Wanderers in their last meeting and since then
have been prancing through stiff workouts in preparation for this next struggle.

All of this simply

is once invade

aroused and

means that the

Dalhousie Tigers are down but not
out. Spurred on by the sting of those

two defeats at the hands of their archrivals from Sackville St., and looking

for revenge. They are aching for the
chance to smear those Wanderers

into the dust and sweep on to a long
awaited victory. The violent end
of the Wanderer’s brain child “Freddie
the Frosh’ last week may be an evil
omen to the red-shirts.

Though the defending Champs saw
hopes for retention of the City League
crown liquidated last week, Dal is still
in the league, and there fight
every game. This is no time for you

in to

 

 

 

October 22nd, 1937

RITIME NET TITLE RETAINED BY DALHOUSIE

 

 

 

RESULTS

RUGBY
Wanderers 11 Dal 5
TENNIS

Dal 11 Mount A, 4

 

 

Drop Only Four Matches,

Scoring Decisive Victory

retained the roman
Inter-Collegiate Tennis crown with a
convincing victory over Mount Allison,

Dalhousie

New Brunswick champions on Monday,
but four of the fifteen matchplaved the Dalhousfe troupe was
never in danger as they
their 11-4 win.

Dropping
es

pounded out

The Results

Men’s Singles: Don Robinson of
| Mt. A., defeated Hugh Little of Dalhousie 2-6, 12-10, 14-12; Stewart of
Dalhousie defeted Lawrence of Mt.
\., 6-1, 1-6, 6-2; Cummings of Mt. A.
defeated Dimock of Dalhousie, 6-3,

6-8, 6-4: Carten of Dalhousie defeated

Hart of Mt. A., 6-4, 6-4: Tweedy of
Mt. A. defeated Mercer of Dalhousie
6-3, 6-4.

Women’s Singles: B. Fraser of Mt.
A., defeated Irene Pentz of Dalhousie,
7-5, 6-8: C. Sullivan of Dalhousie defeated Dela MacFarlane of Mt. A.,
6-3, 6-4; Joan Anderson of Dalhousie

defeated Jean Hill of Mt. A., 6-1, 8-6;
Zylpha Linkletter of Dalhousie defeated Frances Maclellan of Mt. A.,

Tiger supporters to throw up the sponge | 6-3, 6-38; Maureen Allen of Dalhousie

and stay away from the games. A

defeated Margaret Colby of Mt. A.,

team that puts up as good a loosing | 6-1, 6-1.

battle as ours is just as deserving of

support as a team that wins every
game. Dal students stay away from
games in large enough numbers at

best of times so O, Ye Faithful Few,
do not desert us now.

Speedy New Game
To Be Introduced

European Handball being introduced
this year by Sven Korning is a very
fast open game much_ resembling
basketball. I® should appeal to Dalhousie students and is expected to
win quick popularity. The gym floor

 

floor is of just about the regulation
dimensions and is admirably suited
for the game.

The ball is a leather ball similar

to a basketball and just a little smaller
than a volley ball. Each team is
made up of 7 players, a goal tender,
two backs, one center-half, and three
forwards. The object the game
is to advance the ball by passing it
from one to another and throw it
through the goal defended by the other
team. The goals are like hockey
nets but the opening of the net
smaller.

The ball may be caught and thrown
with one or both hands and may be
struck with the open hand but striking
with the clenched fist or kicking are
It be passed
direction but a player may
retain possession of the ball for more
than 2 seconds or while taking 3 steps.

In front of each goal is described
the goal circle, inside of which the
goalie is not prohibited from holding
the ball for more than 2
inside of which the opposing players
may not come. However, if the
goalie goes outside the circle he is
governed by the
the other players.

Though the game is extremely fast
there is no physical contact between
the ee hee os

of

is

not allowed. may in

any not

seconds, and

same limitations as

 

Insist on getting

Donovan’s Beverages
including

Dublin Dry Ginger Ale

Donovan’s Orange Juice
15—different flavours—15

W.H. DONOVAN

45 Granville St. B-6821

 

Mixed Doubles: Mercer and Allen
of Dalhousie defeated Tweedy and
Colby of Mt. A., 6-4, 6-4; Stewart and
Anderson of Dalhousie defeated Robinson and MacFarlane of Mt. A., 6-2,
6-4; Carten and Pentz of Dalhousie defeated Cummings and Fraser of Mt.
A., 6-2, 6-4; Little and Linkletter of
Dalhousie defeated Lawrence and Hill
of Mt. A., 7-5, 6-0; Dimock and Sullivan of Daihousie defeated Hart and
MacLellan of Mt. A., 6-2, 4-6, 6-3.

Men’s Doubles: Stewart and Carten
of Dalhousie defeated Robinson and
Cummings of Mt. A., 6-4, 6-2; Little
and Dimock of Dalhousie defeated
Hart and Lawrence of Mt. A., 6-1, 9-7

Frosh Regulations

All Freshmen are reminded

they are required by a regulation of

the University to take regular physical |

training classes from the Physical |
Instructor during their first year at
Dalhousie.

The requirement is for two hours a |
week during the whole year. Those |
who take regular part in any sport |

may be exempted but the exemption
must be the Physical
Regular attendance at the
classes assigned is required and only
two absences per term are permitted.
Anyone who fails to comply with these

obtained from

Instructor.

requirement either
register

through failure to

for physical training classes

or through nonattendance at assigned

classes during the year will be required

to comply with the regulations next
year,

Any Freshman who has not yet reported to Mr.
sO as soon

Korning will please do
as possible so that classes
can be made up.

 

DRUGS

CHOCOLATES

FOUNTAIN

 

MacLeod, Balcom

Limited

 

that |

|

 

 

 

More Cheers

(Continued from P ige 3)

endear them to their erstwhile comrades. That this unhappy group ever
united itself with so incongrous a companion as Red Spain can be very simply
explained—for despite the gentle reproof of our esteemed fellow-writer, we
still contend that fundamental
courses are essentially simple—by the
strong nationalistic spirit of the Bas™
ques. They with, perhaps,
doubtful justification, that the formation of an absolutely independent
3asque state would be possible in the
event of Government triumph, They
very that any
such move would be blocked by a vicwith his strong opinions on Unlike their
allies the Basques opposed Franco on

most

believed,

reasonably considered
torious Franco,
national unity.
purely nationalistic grounds.

Finally, while we bow our head in
humble acceptance of our critic’s enunciation of truths, viz.,—that,
the Spanish problem is a complex one
and that Germany and Italy are quite
as interested as Russia, we tremblingly
submit that these verities were also
apparent even to us. But as to the
second point: while nations
would undoubtedly expect co-operation
in the international arena from a victorious Franco, there is absolutely no
evidence that I] Duce and der Fuehrer,
unlike the Soviet, would attempt to
exert any influence over the internal
affairs of Spain. As regards the difficulty of forming an impartial opinion
on the conflict, we venture to remind
our revered friend that ‘‘“‘Cheers for
Democracy”’ was nothing if not a protest, however weak and ill-constructed,
against the one-sided and prejudiced
attitude of the popular press.

two

Fascist

 

You Wiil Enjoy

Your Game of

BADMINTON

 

While You Are Using a
Racket from

PHINNEYS

The new Slazenger and Spalding rackets for the season are

very fine. Prices are very

reasonable too.

SLAZENGER
ArInyti ee 4.50
Maa Bh ote he at Be 6.00
Cares. ee. Oo 7.00
Cheltenham........ 8 00
PePAGGR yet bc 12 00
Cheigeiees ee le 15.00

SPALDING
National... 2.95
PPO er te et 4 00
SPECS Sj) La 5.00
Champion.......... 6.00
Carleton.... 7.00
ODN BEB os stir c 00s 9.00
Jack Purcell,....... 11.00

Etc.

 

456-460 Barrinton

 
