 

   
 
 

  
 

Dal. vs.

Wanderers

Tomorrow
at
Studley

VOE, LXVIII.

 

HALIFAX, N. S., OCTOBER 8th, 1937

 

 

 
 
     

  
 

Freshie-Soph
Dance
Nova roa

Thur. Oct.
| 9.00 P. tes

  
  

 

 

 

 

ENTHUSIASM KEYNOTE OF DAL FRESHMEN

 

Highlight Of Glee Club
ees 1s F rosh Sing-Song

On Wednesday evening the al
were the guests of the Glee Club at
the first show of the vear. The
Frosh were out in full force and appeared to be the most enthusiastic of
recent years.

The program opened with several
delightful selections by the Male
Septette. Their numbers consisted of
Dalhousie songs which were received
in the merited manner.

“Five Birds in a Cage’, a one act
Play, was the next item and while
it appeared rather pointless to most
of the audience, it was“a very good
attempt at comedy. The acting of

George Murphy was particularly good

and his “Don’t know, Lady” should.

not be forgotten in the near future
This Play was presented by the Drama

tic Club and it is the first of a very
ambitious program. The Dramatic

Club was very successful last year

jee its presentation of Noel Coward’,

y Fever” was the hest of the vear.

To oe cast of “Five Birds in a Cage”
— and the Dramatic Club as a whole

we extend congratulations and wish
them continued success.

“Fran” Gardiner next rendered
several delightful selections to the
accompaniment of Jerry Naugler and
his Orchestra. This was followed by
Graham MacDougall accompanied by
Mary Marsh. “Fran” and “Bud”
are old favourites at Dal and we feel
sure that last night they won their
way into many new hearts.

From this point the Freshmen ‘stole
the show’ and in the Sing Song they
showed that the College by the Sea
already had a warm spot in their

- hearts. Sing Songs seem to be regaining their former popularity and
we suggest that the Glee Club have
more in the near future.

The Glee Club was followed by a
very enjoyable dance which continued
until midnight. This show, like most
Glee Club shows was nearly ruined
by carelessness on the part of the stage
crew, while realizing the difficulties
with which they have to cope we
think that a little more efficiency on
their part would add greatly to the
success of Glee Club shows.

~ By the way, has anyone seen the
elusive Melvin Brown?

Meeting

A meeting of The Gazette
stafl and those interested in
procuring positions on the
staff will be held in The Gazette office, Murray Homestead,
Tuesday, October 12, at 12
noon.

Holiday

Thanksgiving Day, Monday,
October 11, will be a University
holiday, it has been announc
ed.

 

 

Christian Leader

DR. JOHN R. R. MOTT.

On Thursday, October 14, Dr. John
R, Mott, one of the world’s greatest
christian leaders, will address Dalhousie
students and professors in the Gymnasium at 12 noon. Dr. Mott has
been for half a century outstanding
as a missionary crusader.

When Dwight L. Moody made his
famous appeal for volunteers for
missions at the Northfield Seminary,
John R. Mott was among the first
hundred to respond, and was elected
by his fellows to the first executive
of the Student Volunteer Movement
He accepted a general college secretaryship in the Y. M. C. A., and in this
capacity visited Dalhousie forty-nine
years ago.

Dr. Mott won fame as the founder
of the World Student Christian Federation, the only international organization which did not break up during
the World War, and has visited sixtysix countries in its interests. In Dalhousie he will challenge students to a
realization of world problems, and
he is worthy of a hearing.

 

APPLICATIONS

for Business Manager of Dalhousie

Gazette
and Editor of Dalhousie Bulletin

Applications for the above positions
will be received by the undersigned
up to 6 p. m,, October 10th.

The position of Business Manager
carries a salary of $100.00.

The position of Editor of the Dalhousie Bulletin carries a salary of
$50.00.

Details of these positions may be
ascertained from the undersigned or
from F. Day, President of the Students’
Council.

Signed,

M. M. RANKIN,
F. DAY.—B4297,

Voters To Fill
Vacant Posts

Thursday, October 14, has _ been
set as the day for the Student Council
bye-elections.

Two vacancies exist on the Council
of Students and one on the management committee of the D. A. A. C.

The Nominating Committee of the
Council have named Jack Arnell and
Richard ‘Dick’ Murphy to contest
the election for vice-president of the
Council. Both Arnell and Murphy
are well known on the Studley Campus,
Arnell being a high “mucky-muck’”’
in the Glee Club, while Murphy is
the “tough” news editor of The Gazette.

The Class of '’89 will name
girls to contest the other Council
election which has been caused through
Betty Pearson’s leaving to take a
N. F. C. U.S. scholarship at Queens
University.

Just who the D. A. A. C. will nominate for Secretary-treasurer has as
yet not been announced.

two

Flash—Nancy Lawson was unanimously elected girls’ representative of
Class ’39 on the Students’ Council.

Nominees announced yesterday for
pesiticn of secretary-treasurer of the
D. A. A. C. are Byron Hatfield and
Henry Ballem.

 

Community Chest

Monday, October 11 is Thanksgiving Day in the Province of Nova
Scotia. It will doubtless be enjoyed
in many homes, but in thousands of
others there will be no rejoicing and
no festivities. The people who occupy
these homes belong to that unfortunate
strata of society in which life itself

depends upon the more prosperous and |
that»

charitable public. It is hoped,
Tuesday, October 12 will assume in
some measure a Thanksgiving for
these people, for on that date the
Halifax Community Chest Campaign
officially opens.

Up until a few years ago the members
of the staff of Dalhousie University
made their contributions through the
general industrial divisions in the
City. Now Dalhousie and King’s
are set aside as a special group in
support of the Community Chest.
Each year efforts are made to have
every member of the full and parttime staffs in all departments of the
University make their contributions
through the University team, known
as Dalhousie-King’s. Last year the
Dalhousie-King’s team raised for the
Chest considerably over $2,500.00.
The students themselves contributed
$126.95. This year the student body
will again be approached to make
their donations. Only small amounts
are asked for, nothing above twentyfive cents from each student. Let us
hope that students who live outside
Halifax, but spend nearly eight months
of the year within the City will consider
themselves as good citizens of the

Students Council | Yearlings Now Expected To

Turn Out For All "Activiteal

Holds Meeting

Last Sunday in the Munro Room,

the Council of the Students got off |

to a good start in the first meeting of
the year. All present but the medical
men, Gosse and MacKenzie, and
Sec-Treas Rankin, the representatives
galloped their usual speedy course

' through a maze of work.

It was decided to call for nominations
for vacancies on the Council and to
hold by-elections next Tuesday (since
changed to next Thursday)—for a
'new Vice-President of Council, and
Junior Class representative and Secretary-Treasurer of D. A. A. C. Murray Rankin was re-appointed SecretaryTreasurer of the Student Body. Peter
Nicholson and Doug Lyall were named
Gate Committee for the year. The

 

resignation of Gordon Daley as Business
Manager of The Gazette was accepted,
and applications for a successor were
ordered to be submitted.

The Council approved Roly Hurst’s
previous decision to hold the Council
Dance on October 7 (“Heil Hurst’’)
and a committee of Barton, Corston,
MacKeigan and Lyall was appointed
to take care of arrangements. The
councillors in their wisdom saw fit
to continue the Daily Bulletin, and
ordered applications to. be called for
the job of editor (salary $50.00).
An amount of $5.00 was allotted to
the D. A. A. C. on account towards
its lump budget. The final handout
was for $30, for the Sophomore Com
mittee to cover the Shirreff Hall
dance deficit as in past years.
Near the last, but not least, was a

rousing battle between Hurst et al,
and Barton, MacKeigan, et al, on
the subject of a proposed theatre
night next Monday at the midnight
show. Hurst for, and the others
against the idea. The objection was
made on the grounds that it would
interfere with the Reunion banquet
of next Tuesday. Hurst furiously
countering that no conflict would
result. Hurst lost.

Finally the grand project of a
full holiday—a miniature Munro Day—be held near the end of October was
discussed, and seems to have fair
prospect of success. The idea is to,
have a field day in the morning,
football game with Mount Allison
followed by a Glee Club, together
with radio speeches and a broadcast
of the game. She looks big! You'll
hear more about it later!

seaitinaatentinnet( Seis scien

Newfoundland Club |

A meeting of all Newfoundland
Students will be held at 3 p. m., Sunday,
Oct. 10th. in Room 8 of the Arts
Building. This meeting will be the

first for the year and the Club hopes|

to receive the support which it merits.

Last year the club was very successful, and with the difficulties of organiza
community and give a little with a|tion now removed, a very active year

smile,

[*s anticipated,

of the

Mr.

 

Addresses Alumni

 

RT. HON. R. B. BENNETT

Leader of the Conservative party in
Canada and distinguished graduate of
Dalhousie University, who will address
a banquet of members of the alumni
at the Nova Scotian Hotel,
evening, October 12 at seven o'clock.
He will speak on his recent tour of the
Empire.

This is one of a series of gatherings
alumni ro be held in Halifax
during the winter in an efiort to stimuate enthusiasm among graduates for
the Centennial Re-union next August.
Dalhousie’s
most illustrious graduates has sacrificed
his time to come to Halifax to address
this banquet and it is to be hoped that
the Board of Governors,

Bennett, one of

Faculty, student body, alumni and
alumnae will be well represented.
Indications are that more than 500

will be present and you are urged to
secure your tickets early from the committee,

Tickets may be procured from the
following: Bob Walters, Jim McMann,
Will <
Lynch,
Evatt

Burchell, Ben Rogers, C. G.,
Jim Milner, Fred
Merchant,

Notice

The D. A. A. C.

invites ap
plications for the following
positions—

Hockey—Assistant Manager
Badminton—Manager
Softball—Manager
Boxing—Manager
Swimming—Manager
Ping-pong—Manager

All applications should be

forwarded to Ed. Craig, Sec.

D. A. A. C., before 12 midnight

Saturday, Oct. 9th, 1937.

 

Tuesday

the Senate

Barton,
Archie MacKenzie
and the University Book store.

| student

lis now

 

jall Freshmen,

“

For the past. week Halifax and
Haligonians have been treated to a
rare sight. the first time in
many years the Freshman Class have
made themselves known in the ‘ ‘grand
style’. Reminiscent of the days when
“U Pi Dee” roared from ev ery throat
after a football game, the Frosh have
brought back to Dalhousie that much
abused term ‘college spirit’,

Moving as a body to and from the

For

various movie-houses in town fhe
lads and lassies did everything but
tear down the Province House, (al
though 'tis said Joe Howe's statue

suffered various indignities).
Many were the surprised

who woke up to find a

citizens
“Stop Sign”

or an ashcan resting precariously on
their verandahs. The tramcar conductors were by far the chief sufferers

when their car trolleys were most
unceremoniously removed from the
wires.

No~ Borgia could have thought up
the various diabolical wavs in which
this was accomplished. Perhaps the
inost satisfactory was to sit one gentleman on the tracks, in order to stop the
car, and when that was done to send
a committee
at the back.

One unfortunate thing occurred however, when a fake call was sent in to
the fire department. To tease people,
even in a sadistical way, is one thing,
but to disrupt the workings of the
fire-fighters is something that should
not have happened.

The police seemed entirely oblivious
of this, due to their good nature. A
patrol car was summoned at one point
in the game, but the officers, slightly
amused, let things go by.

to remove the

trolley

It’s been a lot of fun though, and if
certain bluenoses resent it there are
many more who are glad to see Halifax
returned to its
University town.
of collegiate

proper status as a
Whatever one says
childishness, the fact

remains that it is a quality belonging

to college students as a whole and
should not be deplored.

However, to get to brass tacks,
if they can make that much of a
rumpus on the city streets with no
definite reason what will they show
us at Studley on Saturday afternoon.

For the past five years the cry has
been “Dalhousie students do
support their teams.’ With a
such as this, will that cry cease?

not
class

student at Dalhousie
now what type of Class ’41 is.

will be expecting to
something from them, Not miserable
cat-calls, but full-blooded roars. It
up to the class of ‘41 to live
up to their new reputation, and show
the University,
hearing is true.

Every knows
Every

hear

if what they have been
faces
their own

The challenge
and is of
making.

Class '41 must, in order to maintain
their prestige, turn out in a body at
all student functions where the honour
of Dalhousie is at stake, whether it
be on the field of sport or otherwise.

AL ALUMNI BANQUET, NOVA SCOTIAN HOTEL

| 7 p.m. TUESDAY, OCT. 12th,

Subject:

 

“‘His Empire Tours”

RT. HON. R. B. BENNET, Guest Speaker

TICKETS $1.25

eS

j
a
9
4
f
y

 
   

   
 

hacette

  
     
   
     
  
 
   
    
 
    
  
   
   
    
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
   
 
  

GAZETTE STAFF.

   

es Editors.
_ A.B. MACKENZIE. E. F. MERCHANT.
ss B-8824, | B-0254.
ie Associates.

Roland Hurst.

Babbitt T. Parlee, B. A.
a . Peggy Merkel.

Leonard Kitz. John Dickie, B. A.
aoe’ | Business Managers.
IRDON K. DALEY, B. Com.

1

BB 700.

R. L. ARMSTRONG, B. A.
B-5700.
4 News Editor.
‘ | RICHARD MURPHY.
; - B-2427,

RUGBY

The attention of Dalhousie athletes at the present time is
: occupied mainly by rugby. At least a majority of the non-playet Pebe te =. 4s ~ ° | ‘ d S0 the ;
___ ing students follow the game with a keen interest, and so they
should, for football is a sport intimately connected with University
life, and, perhaps, has a greater appeal to youth than any other
game. ~=Certainly on this campus it is. pre-eminent. Among
___.__ sports it stands unique in its ability to inspire courage, teamwork
and a spirit of fierce determination. Caf
: The game of rugby is also of great value to the University
as a unit, if only in a material sense. It is unfortunate but true,
that the non-university world, in North America, at least, judges
Been Ti olleges not only by their educational standards, (and here, we beby ieve, the various schools of Dalhousie cannot be surpassed), but
also in the ability of their athletic teams. Knowing this, some col___leges, not only the larger ones, degrade a sportsman’s splendid
-___ game to the level of a mere business in order to secure advertising.
Thus we have university officials in this country inveigling
; é. hoy) star athletes from preparatory and high schools to enter their
-_—_—s various institutions by such well-known routes as cut rates, paid
i tuitions or manufactured jobs. Dalhousie has never resorted to
: such practices and for this alone we may hold our heads high; but
oe ee at Dalhousie the students also want winning teams. Ru-_ mours are still heard on the campus that we would have winning
i. teams if we had that elusive college spirit. Is it not possible that
it might be something else we need? For example more support
from the University—in a moral sense, not-a practical—and, perhaps, full-time coaches? Every student appreciates the efforts
of well-known coaches of other years and no two men could have
. roved the. champion senior rugby turned out last season by
fessors “Big Jim’’ MacDonald and A. B. Fletcher, and, at least,

  

saat ati

 
   
    
 
  
   
 
     
 
   
     
   
  
      
   
   
  

ype for a repetition this year. For several years previous
. the same old story was repeated about Dalhousie

? st weak as a unit.”’ yt
e interests to the teams. This can be
sole interest is the developing of Dalon, we are told, is against paid coaches but
| 3 ON RUSHING”
th pat it has been the custom of more than one fraternity
2t a new man one day and talk him into joining their organi
   
 

 

y
We ag Gh gi
3 . aS

   
      

ate 2
= 3
. Ss ey. 8 a 4
i. rt
™ 4 ‘
“ete 2 ¥
—

jt
;

on the next. More often than not the innocent victim of all
this has no idea whatsoever as to what pin he would like to receive
and unwittingly signs a pledge which may ruin his entire college
life. To you who would avoid such a happening we offer the advice to wait until your minds are fully made up. If a fraternity
__ is serious about its intentions towards a Freshman it is willing to
wait any length of time, for he will be just as valuable to them
pt in the future as he is now. Above all, he should be certain that

he is congenial with all members of that house before he consents
to become a member. a7 3%
, Choosing a fraternity is enalagous to marriage in modern

his future. If he is unwise, then his college career is practically

ruined. It is therefore much the best policy to delay until there

is no further doubt as to which group can give him the most ad~  Vantages.

4 Several years ago the women students of Dalhousie formed

“a membership. While it is not the intention of The Gazette to
-——s counsel a year’s delay to every newcomer, nevertheless an extended
-———séperiod of thought is extremely advisable. It is not our purpose
to discourage Freshmen from entering a fraternity, for it is our
contention that a new and inexperienced student can receive much
in the way of advice from older and wiser persons. On the other
hand we are assured also that a man can make no greater mistake
_ ‘than that of joining a group of strangers without a certain amount
-___ of honest reflection to guide his actions.

THE POWER OF THE SPOKEN WORD

ed ate It is generally recognized truth that, no matter how great may
be a man’s store of knowledge and no matter how powerful may
be his intellect, that man is helpless if he be incapable of expound_--~__ ing his theories and disclosing his learning to others in a clear and
convincing manner. Realizing this, we all study the English
language, both at school and in the university, in an earnest en_ deavour to perfect a forceful and grammatically correct literary
style. However, it is also an unfortunate truth that many people
_ ~who are ever ready to admit the value of the correctly written
_ word forget the great influence of the spoken word in our everyday
tS se lives. People judge us largely from their conversations with us,
___ and one’s ability to command the attention either of an individual
person or of an audience composed of many people largely deter“mines his success in life. Ease and fluency of speech are necessary
_ for one who hopes to become a good citizen and a valued counsel
~ “= of his fellows. |
_--_~___-_ To enable us to cultivate effective speech we have at Dala _ housie two most worthy societies, Sodales Debating Society
and the Effective Speaking Club. As active members of these
_-—~—s Organizations, students learn to overcome nervousness, think on
_ their feet, acquire a ready and vigourous delivery, and pit themgee selves against others in fair debate. The value of this training
cannot be overemphasized. It is a vital part of our education.
It is hoped that all students will actively support these societies.

= 7 ed *

  
   
    
  
   
   

 

    
      
  
    
   
   
   

Obviously this |

x a Pan-Hellenic agreement to exclude Freshettes from sorority].

Cheers for Democracy

“La Voz del Partido Communista
Espagnola”—Are -you interested
this declaration of the Spanish. Communist Party- Then tune your shortwave set, not to Moscow, not to the
recognized and admitted shrine of
Bolshevism, but to Valencia, the present stronghold and centre of the “Republican” government of Spain.
Switch your dial indicator to the required point and sit back to enjoy the
news items in English. For you will
enjoy the broadcast, if you possess a
sense of humour. With imposing solemnity, the announcer scrambles a
touching panegeric on the blessings
and virtues of democracy with a description of the activities of the Spanish
Communist Party—and usually signs
off with the Internationale. Do you
seek further entertainment? Then
twirl the pointer to RAN, Radio Centre
Moscow. You may be fortunate
enough, as we were, to discover, during
the program in English, a bitter condemnation of ‘‘the enemies of Spanish
liberty and democracy” sandwiched
between two orations denouncing the
foremost modern democracies and exalting “the dictatorship of the proletariat.”’

If respect for the persuasive abilities
of the prophets of Communism—than
whom there are none greater in the
sphere of propaganda—is to be retained,
it can only be assumed that the Marxist leaders feel that such anomalies are
immaterial in view of the chosen attitude of the great majority of newspaper
syndicates in the British Commonwealth and the United States. So persistent, so untiring, so unscrupulous
have been many of our own journals in
their suppression of facts and arguments advantageous to the other faction the Spanish civil war, that gentle
(Continued on Page 3)

F antasy - - Fancy
and Fact

“It is impossible for anyone to be as
wise as*that man lpoks’’ whimsically
remarked an unknown wit as he regarded the portrait of one of the solemn
Chief Justices of England. The wig,

the severe cloak seem indeed to exude

justice from their very folds. The
power of a uniform is remarkable.
One sees a doctor garbed in gleaming
white and one forgets the mediocre
countenance of his face. Here stands
the figure. It is clothed like a Doctor.
Doctors are equipped with the knowledge of life itself. They are next to
infallible. Hence the figure before us
clad and apparaled with the proper accoutrement and habiliment is next to
infallible.

It is not to be decried, however,
on the contrary, for the judge acquires
a higher standard of subtlety than he
ever knew. The physician places himself as society's greatest need and is the
better man for it. The ‘soldier~ envisages himself as Horatius: Hercules
and Atlanta are reincarnated in our
athletes. Beneath the shining badge
on the policeman there beats a heart
overflowing with the public weal. It
is the old, old story, a happy story,
“Call me a hero or think of me as a
hero. I shall be one!”’

Let’s kiss and make up” cried Mitch
Hepburn to MacKenzie King this
week. They did. There is an adage
to the effect that idle fingers find mischief. Likewise idle politicians find
quarrels. However, with the sobering
job of elections at hand a new friendly
union was eflected. From such a
union, the heroine seduced by necessity,
peeped upon by Labour and spied at
by hydro contract trouble; is expected,
however, to give birth to a successful
election victory.

Ex-Attorney-General Roebuck and
Ex-Labour Minister. David Croll are
again running under the Liberal banner. Crollit was who gave the homely
remark “I would rather walk with
Labour than ride with General Motors.”
That quarrel too, seems soothed and
palliated.

Students are to Have a rare privilege
this coming week when the Rt. Hon.
R. B. Bennett and Henri Bouroussie
come to Halifax. Mr.

Bennett is
well known by all. The other leading
Canadian statesman has been for

twenty years a spokesman for the
French Canadian people. He is the
man credited with having defeated
Sir Wilfred Laurier. «Lectures by the
two should be interesting.

in | |

 

 

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

The

up

Frosh on Parade

At the first of the past week the
freshmen certainly ‘‘went to town”’
in a big way in their parades to and
from the movie nights. Making the
night hideous with raucous yelling,
disrupting traffic, and harassing the
local flatfeet, the verdant frosh waken
ed with a start stolid Haligonians
from their complacencies.

At the time that this comment was
written, most students looked with
approval on these antics. Varied but
enthusiastic were the comments—‘‘A

new day at Dalhousie’—‘A great
class of youngsters’’—‘'The liveliest
freshman week since 1930’. While

wehave no wish to dampen this new
enthusiasm and, least of all, have no
intention of censuring the freshmen
but rather the sophomores in whose
charge they are), nevertheless ve feel
possibly that the conclusion that
these parades as conducted this year
are completely a good thing should
not be accepted without thorough
testing,

True enough, back in the good old
days, a parade like one of this year
would be considered very ‘“‘sissified’’.
But—in those days the freshmen were
put in their place by a_ thorough
initiation, The old-time initiation
seems to us to have had three objectives—introduce the newcomers to
college activities, give them a good
time and a real welcome, and, thirdly,
show them by drastic means if necessary that college was a place to discard high school ‘‘freshness’’.

The present programme merely abolishes the third objective without filling
out the programme with eftective
alternatives, We do not advocate
return to the old barbarous initiation.
But we do suggest two things—that
the sophomores establish an effettive
disciplinary committee to show recalcitrant freshmen the errors of their
ways—and (the second point is really
a branch of the first) that it be seriously
considered whether completely unsupervised parades like those of the
present week are to be desired.

Have a parade by all means—give
the freshmen a good time and weld
them into an enthusiastic class of
Dalhousians. But, let us emphasize
this, supervise and control that parade,

so as to eliminate the objectionable |

feature of this year—property damage.
[t is a matter of sober fact that a
number of cars were damaged this
year (radiator caps stolen, doors and
hoods wrenched, and cushions damaged), street lights and park benches
broken, and at least one false alarm
rung in. If any bills for this damage
come in, the freshmen should not
have to pay them, but the sophomores.

Lest we be condemned for too much
destructive criticism, let us conclude
by passing out a few bouquets—congrats to the initiation committee and
the freshman representative for what
was in many ways the best freshman
programme since at least 1932—the
best in substance and in the spirit
in which it was carried out. Things
are progressing, even if the millenium
has not yet arrived.

OY

An M. P. who was a staunch advocate of sex equality said to the woman sitting next to him at a dinnerparty: ‘“‘My dear lady, I go farther
than believing in woman suffrage. |
maintain that man and woman are
equal in every way.” |

“Oh,” said the woman sweetly, ‘‘now
you're boasting!’’

Gymnasium Notice

All visitor privileges are suspended until further notice.

This applies to any use of the
Gymnasium or its equipment
by others than registered students of the University.

October 8th, 1937

 

“What are you fussing about now?”
“Well, | can’t remember where | packed my Sweet Caps!”

SWEET CAPORAL CIGARETTES

“The purest form in which tobacco can be smoked.” —{ancet

 

 

CASINO

Three Days Starting Satur
      
   
  
  
  

 

Official College

   
    
   
 
   

day October 9th

BOBBY BREEN
“MAKE A WISH”

with
BASIL RATHBONE
MARION CLAIRE

Jewellery
@
Designs are available for

class orders.

Edgar Kennedy Comedy
‘‘Mornin’ Judge’”’
‘‘Peeping Penguins’”’
‘*It’s A Good Stunt’’
News Of The Day

Henry Birks & Sons

Limited
Diamond Merchants
. Halifax

   
  

 

When You Need
DRUGS MEDICINES PRESCRIPTIONS

or any other Drug Store Merchandise

better SERVICE VALUE

KINLEY’S DRUG STORES

You get and

at

 

   
   

   

B-7555 B-9727

Che Wade Bros. Taxi

5 and 7 Passenger Cars
UNIFORMED CHAUFFEURS

TO AND FROM DANCES TAKE WADE BROS.

ZIPPER CASES
ALL SIZES MADE TO YOUR ORDER
At Reasonable Prices

KELLY’S LTD.

118 GRANVILLE ST.

 

     

MUSIC HOME ECONOMICS

CLASSES FOR UNIVERSITY STUDENTS
Appreciation of Music—Popular Class—H. Louise Burchell, A. M..
(Rad.), B. Mus. (Oxon)., Head of Department.

Voice Training for Singing or Public Speaking—Percy Snowden,

Edinburgh and London, Head of Department.
Orchestra, Violin—Ifan Williams, A. R. A. M., Head of Department.
Piano—Elsie Taylor, Roval Conservatory, Leipsig, Head of Department.
Practice Rooms Available
Home Economics—Ruth Binnie, M. S. R..T.,
Head of Department.
: Telephone B-6524

Halifax Ladies’ College & Conservatory of Music

    
    
    
     
       
 

London, England,

      
    
 

 
   

 

 

Nova Scotia Technical College
OFFERS
ENGINEERING COURSES

CIVIL, ELECTRICAL, MECHANICAL AND MINING.
To Dalhousie Students with Engineering Diplomas.
Modern Equipment, Instructing Staff with Individual
xperience.

Tuition Fee $75.00 per year—Twent -five Sch i
Siatis tS

Write or call for Calendar or Advice. F. H. SEXTON, Pres.

    
     
     
       
    

 
ae -_— — =
Rate eee eye’
Rua =. SRE ane Md) ss
> a ey
cee ee <a ed C
ss > ‘A <
r S Se
a res. 4 * X '

  
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
   
  
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
   
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
   
 
 
 
   
  
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
   
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  

eae
the inimitable John Fisher. Hower at the outset of this series of
pact cles on the Centennial Reunion
4 to take place next August, the writer
wishes to change not only the title
but also the spirit behind that title.
Mr. Fisher meant his criticisms to
i ibe. constructive, and in the main they
_ were. What we need, however, is
not criticisms, but praises, not disentegration but unity; not damnation
_ but cooperation. Cooperation in every
F “branch of the University, including
the ‘student body in order to magnify
the greatness of an institution already
at, to which we in the past have
n but feigning a love.
oy PT oacdesinea is the man or institution
__ which cannot take constructive criti- cism. Yet there is a point at which
_ criticisms cease to be constructive,
and that point is reached when gossip
7 without foundation is allowed to
e permeate, above all places, within
___ the fair walls of the institution itself.
Such is the case today.
You and I have for our raison d’étre
the good we can do for our fellowmen.
y Our mark will be judged in the light
of our influence on those with whom
, ea we come in contact. Has it ever
a been the mark of manhood and womanar hood to grasp a wrong impression,
ae, due to our own pigheadedness or


— |

Se

i

____ ignorance and then to shout it from
! mY _the housetops in the hope that it will
hg oe, cripple another man or institution.
Surely British Justice does not place
rae its stamp on this type of free speech.
Let us build up rather than tear
down by adopting the following attitude thus aligning ourselves with
_ thousands of others whose integrity,
ability and worth sway the nation.

2 Dalhousie to me is to-day a splendid
a ‘institution. I am proud and honoured
tobe permitted toattend her. Thenceforth I will not allow myself in any
‘i = i i eempaay to say anything derogatory
| vie her name without first learning
eeenree from the proper authori
ee

Pe

a in the: as penaai help
i be @ stronger | Dalhousie ‘in every
* “Let ‘him whois -witho

 

: ep New Regulations

A ee Lockers may be rented by not
more than two persons to each locker,
A at $2.00 per locker, for each University
Session (Sept. Ist-May 15th). Where
ae oe students wish to share a locker,
* th names shall be given when
he Raving the rental charge.

: ii Locker rentals are payable at the
____— University Business Office.
A a ‘The Physical Director
ape lockers on presentation
receipts.

~
=

will allot
of rental

2. The exclusive use of a locker
will be given to one person, only
after all applications for half lockers
have been filled, and on condition
that !t may be cancelled by the Uniby versity at any time’ Rental charges,
__ in such cases, will be adjusted.

8. A student may not sub-let a
portion of the locker space allotted
to him. Infringement of this rule
will be regarded as a breach of University Regulations and will be dealt
. leith accordingly.

_ 4. Holders are cautioned to keep

— the doors of their lockers locked.
_ The University will not be responsible
for loss. Holders will be directly
init for any damage occurring
_ to their lockers, ordinary wear and
tear only excepted.

a
“
ri a
‘

a

6. Holders are reminded that combination numbers must be kept secret.
. _ If they become public property and
et pit becomes necessary to change these
? -numbers, a charge of $.50 will be made.
is Holders who have forgotten their
combination numbers must not at7 tempt to force the doors but should
apply to the Physical Director who
will gladly open them.

6. Tosatisfy themselves that proper

sanitary conditions as to clothing,
» ete. are being maintained, the Univer
3 a sity reserves the right to inspect
t lockers at any time.

a.

ms

“e
eS
\ i

¥

and was Pi

er re In sub-| =

Sis DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

The Sacred Cow of Dal

By Big Chiet H, F. McRae.

Traditions die hard. Ancient Rome
had her She-Wolf, Scotiarid her Fairies
and Dalhousie her Sacred Cow. Modern critics are inclined to relegate those
manifestations to the realm of the Myth
and it is a bold one who will say them
nay. The writer holds no brief for
the story of the She-Wolf and he has
never met a fairie without flesh and
blood but having access to “The
Archives of the Temple’ he can vouch
of the authenticity of the Sacred Cow.

To begin with the Cow wasn’t
intended to be a cow at all but rather
a donkey. How the change was
brought about only can be explained
by the Calvanistic doctrine of predestination.

In the memorable year of 1905 when
the class of ‘‘Noughty seven” held
sway in the halls of old Dalhousie,
it occurred to them to be an extraordinary thing thet the Senate cf the
University failed to take their orders
from them. Something had to be done
about it, and the prophetic method
decided upon was that of ‘‘Packing the
Court” or enlarging the Senate with
members in sympathy with their purposes, The first appointment on the
program was that of Assistant Professor of History and alter due deliberation the Donkey became the popular
choice and arrangements were made
for the installation that has since
become historic.

Having made such a good job of
educating the Freshmen, the Sophs
had enabled them to witness the reformation of the Senate, which accounts
for the sprinkling of Freshmen names
that appear hereafter. The scene of
the plot was 18 Carleton Street, in a
room occupied by the writer anda’
young chap by the name of Maceigan
The Ze1o hour was set for 2 A. M. on
March 28, 1905. Military discipline
was established, squads detailed to
special duties and an oath of secrecy
demanded fromall. At midnight while
the leaders held caucus night runners
brought the dismal news that the

_|donkey rebelled at the plot and that

under no circumstances would he join
the noble Senate or assume the duties

oe: of, Assistant eT of History, AL


 

 

a

  

1.

the following exceptions—

1. Holidays.

2.
os

2:

3.

notice.

4. Students are expected to make use of the Gymnasium equipment for the purpose for: which it was

oo Schedule

GYMNASIUM HOURS.—The Building will be
open for gymnasium purposes every week day from
9 a. m. until 1 Pp. m,, and from 2 p. m. until 6 p. m.,
and in the evenings from 7 p. m. until 10.30 p. m. with

The Upper Gymnasium is reserved for the
Staff on Saturday evenings.

Certain other periods of which due notice
will be posted from time to time.

The reservation of the Gymnasium Building
for special events will, so far as possible, be limited to
Wednesday and Friday evenings.

Any University Society or Organization, desiring the use of the Gymnasium, must make written
application of Mr. George Corston, Secretary of the
Students’ Gymnasium Committee, giving a full week’s
Application forms must be obtained from the
Physical Director, or Mr. Corston.

 

‘substitute must be had at once and in

order that no mistake should thus be
made the “Entrails of a victim’’ was
quickly determined that the choice
of the gods was Josh Hilyt’s cow.

Mathew Burris knew exactly where
Josh Hiltz kept his cow, and with the
assistance of Billie Ross and George
Finlayson the cow was soon hustled
over the Campus and right up to the
Gymnasium door. Stretcher provided
to carry the donkey up three flights
of stairs proved entirely inadequate
for the capacity of a full sized cow,
particularly when the cow had serious
doubts about the advantages of a
liberal education. When moral suasicn
failed, however, resort was had to man
power, and, believe it or not, the cow,
notwithstanding the bedlam created
be her bellows and thumping feet
soon found herself marching up the
basement stairs and right into the
main corridor of the Ancient Classic
Hall.

The objection raised by the cow to
the initial stairs was multiplied many
fold when an attempt was made to
induce her to navigate the second.

After several futile attempts it was)

discovered that that the cow wanted
was to be treated like any other
professor, and when the suggestion
was made that she be confined to
the Profs Waiting room, she readily
agreed, and into the Sanctum Sanctorum she went, where she was installed
and dedicated with appropriate ceremonies.

In order that the task should be
carried out with the greatest secrecy
and safety, husky guards had been
placed at both the inside and outside
doors of Janitors apartment. The
outside guards consisted of J. J
McRitchie, J. Collie, Gillis McAulay
J. Snook, W. Bigelow, and W. H
Sweet. On the inside guard were
Frank McLeod, A. F. Mathews, J. H.
Hamilton, A. E. Munro, John Archibald, Jim McKinnon and W. P. Grant.
Whether that. noble custodian had
heard echoes of the rumpus or not
there were no outward indicaticns.
The beef-eaters who carried the mighty

(Continued on Page 4)

designed, and to take reasonable care in preserving
the appearance and cleanliness of the premises.

5. Neither loitering nor card-playing is permitted
in the Gymnasium. ;

6.

In order that Mr. Korning may be free to attend

to his duties as Physical Director, students are requested to avail themselves of the services of the Student
and Senate Gymnasium Committees in any matter
relating to the use of the Gymnasium, or infringe
ments of the regulations.

7. After any Glee Club presentation, the stage
must be cleared by the Club before 12 noon of the day

following.

SENATE GYMNASIUM
COMMITTEE.

Dr. Clyde Holland
Prof. W. R. Maxwell
Prof. C. H. Mercer
Prof. H. R. Theakston

STUDENT GYMNASIUM
COMMITTEE

George Corston
Margaret Hall
Hazen Mitchell
Babbitt Parlee
Irene Pentz
Gordon Thompson

 

lieve one of the most honest documents
"| yet written on the genesis and conduct
‘lof the Spanish war.” The Globe and
‘| Mail proceeds to draw particular attention to the fact that Franco had

Cheers for Democracy

(Continued from Page 2)

men who in one Canadian city greet
their audience with the Bolshevist
salute of the clenched fist and describe
democracy as a pitiful sham are actually taken seriously by listeners in another part of the Dominion when they
seek aid in their struggle against ‘‘the
foes of liberty and the adherents of
dictatorship.”

Not that such campaigno, such claims
such appeals for support should be suppressed or boycotted. Not at all,
for is not ours a democratic countryAnd are not all our journals animated
with a desire to present actualities to
the reading public, to prove impartiality
by an offering of the adversative claims
of both sides? We hoped so, but
events are disappointing us. While
headlines in Canadian newspapers announce aerial bombardment by
Franco, a paragraph nestling unobtrusively on a back page mention like
activities by Government planes, which

an

of course, never by any chance, attack anything but ‘“‘military objectives.’ Hardly a line in most Can
adian lay journals, at least within our
personal knowledge, has been allowed
for statistics on the thousands, _literally thousands, of Roman Catholic religious murdered in cold blood with the
sanction, if not the active cooperation,
of the “Republican” government. In
only one Canadian paper out of some
twenty from various parts of the
country could be found more than a
passing reference to the Pastoral Letter of the Catholic bishops of Spain, a
document absolutely vital to the formation of any equitable judgment on
the present conflict. As this one
journal, the Toronto Globe and Mail,
remarks, “It (the Pastoral Letter) is
quite the most spectacular, and we be
recourse to arms only after the Spanish
government had deliberately invalidated the votes of whole provinces at
will in order to avert an otherwise
inevitable overthrow at the polls.

But such fairmindedness has been
the exception, not the rule, in the press
of our own continent. How many
U. S. or Canadian papers have republished the statement of Dr. David,
the Anglican Bishop of Liverpool, to
the Liverpool Daily Post after his return from a recent Spanish visit?
“IT think (said Dr. David) that there is
much hope for Spain if he (Franco)
wins, and more hope from his side than
from the side of his opponents.”’ While
at least two prominent Canadian journals reprinted, from the Spanish Goyernment paper La Banderd Rojd, an
alleged laudation of the Government's
acts and policy by the Anglican Bishop
of Gibraltar, neither published the reply of the Bishop, in which he denounced the words attributed to him by La
Banderd Rojd as an utter fabrication,
and continued: “I
that there is no limit to lying, effrontery, Red Spain. I
have been able admire, and
priase with enthusiasm the return of
peace, arder, well-being abundance in Nationalist Spain. La Banderd Rojd and its like (the government
have surpassed their sinister
the

am now convinced

and cynicism in
to note,

and
forces)

and savage tutors
Soviet Russians.”

themselves,

While plastering our journals, therefore, with statements from a source
which combines laudations of democracy with the announcement “The
Voice of the Communist Party,” yet
let us at least grant some space, some
consideration, to the claims of a faction whose principles, never self-contradictory, are amply expressed in the
call of the Nationalist broadcast from
Saldmanca—‘‘Espagna Una! Espagna
Grande! Espagna Libre!’

 

Notice Re Smoking

1. STAGE—No smoking is
permitted on the stage (including
rooms off) at any time.

2. REMAINDER OF FIRST
FLOOR—including lobbies, offices and main floor. Nosmoking is permitted here except during a dance or after any other
social function.

Any student violating the above
regulation will be liable to a fine
of $2.00.

 

Page Three

a

 

WHY NOT ENJOY
ONE EVERY DAY ?

 

 

 

  

 

 

 

 

 

Insist on getting

On Spring Garden Rd.

;
Directly opposite Tech Donovan’s Beverages

including

Dublin Dry Ginger Ale

Donovan’s Orange Juice

You will find

College Stationery

of all kinds at the
15—different flavours—15

W.H. DONOVAN

45 Granville St. B-6821 yr

Lowest Prices in town

LOU CONNOLLY

BADMINTON!

Bring your friend
Late or early.

At noon or night we
Keep open to serve
Every student.

Have you made your
selection of Badminton
supplies for the year?

 

Our stock is complete in
gael and COVERS Runehee eric Meals; J
PRESSES a Everything is tasty at ml
NETS GYM SHOES Your Dalhousie

FS a eis 2 Restaurant.
o

The Halifax Hardware
Limited
397 Barrington St.

BLAKELEY’S

43 Spring Garden Rd.

  
   

 

 

Acquire the Studley Habit

TRADE FROM YOURSELF

 

  

This store was started for the students by the students.

  

 

Dalhousie Crested:
EXERCISE BOOKS ‘“LAB’’ BOOKS
and STATIONERY

Buy YOUR LUNCHES at

ROY ATWOOD

Below the Gymnasium

 

 

  

 

    
 
   
     

 

 

GAUVIN AND GENTZEL

 

Photographers to Dalhousie University

SEE OUR PICTORIAL WORK
FOR GIFTS

  
  
 
  
      

SPECIAL RATES TO |
STUDENTS

24 Hour Finishing Service

   

81 SPRING GARDEN RD. Phone B-6992
  

____ DALHOUSIE G E GAZE Bre hy ao

 

  

SCHEDULE
og RUGBY
_ «| sd DAL VS. WANDERERS
la Sat. at Dal.

he Senior and Intermediate

      
     
 
 

TENNIS

DAL VS. ACADIA
Sat. at Dal.

     
    
    
 

 

Roe City Champs Lose|Can I Be Wrong!
Opening Battle 4

ROLAND HURST

    
   
  
  
    
   
  
  
   
 
 
 
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
   
  
  
   
   
   
  
  
   
   
    
  
 
    
 
   
 
  
     
   
    
  
     
    
   
     
   
   
  
  
    
  
  
  
    
   
 
  
   
 
  
 

In spite of trojan work on the part
of the forwards and plenty of support
from the crowded and_ expectant
stands, Dalhousie’s Tigers lost the
opening game of the City League to
_ Acadia 9-8 on Saturday afternoon.
Thrown back on their heels from
the opening whistle the Gold and
Black never really got under way,
while the Acadia squad swarmed in
to push over three tries without a
_ reply. It was not till late in the day
_ that Bus Phillips boosted a penalty
_ kick between the uprights to score

How's the above title for modesty.
For the benefit of the Fresh we will
point out that last year the writer
made several very unsuccessful attempts at picking the winners, and so,
to remove the cloud, just remember
| Can Be Wrong’,

Last week a determined though
ineffective Dalhousie team were trampled over the Dalhousie lot by Acadia
and emerged on the short side of a 9-3
count. Immedietely the ‘wise guys”
began with their prophecies—‘‘Dal

a Dal’s points. is the weak sister’’—‘‘Dal’s a pushak & : Playing an aggressive fast-following over’’—But they forget, they forget
Be, up game from the kick-off Acadia that last year Dalhousie took a 21-3
| ~—_—sbored in behind Dal’s 25 yard line| pasting from Wanderer’s in the league
. and after a short two minutes Wellner|opener and they came through to

trim both opponents and then march
off with the City title.

Tomorrow Dal and Wanderers meet
for the first time this season. There'll
be Hy-- to pay, for Dalhousie is out
to avenge last Saturday’s defeat.

gathered in a loose ball to plunge
over for the first try.

After the attempt to convert Dal
came out with fight and determination,
but though the scrum fed the back
field regularly and outplayed the a pets
’ Acadia pack the three-quarters and| Will they avenge it? Well we
think so, but just remember, ‘I can

halves seemed to be unable to make
_ the,.necessary gains. Time after time
_ Acadia tacklers came in fast to cut
down the ball carriers before they got
vunder way.
SS All through the half Vic Haines},
| * wae worked hard in the fullback
; < = cee ‘and made several nice plays
y Pe rd off” dangerous thrusts, Dal
y forced the play up the
hi ete o and “the fans took hope, but
ah ‘ tere consistent loss of ground on exchanges

be wrong.’

a

_

 

Bet. Sue What is Dalhousie going to do to
solve the coaching problem? That
is a question that has been ‘‘footballed”’
for as many years as we can remember.
Each year the D. A.A. C. finds itself
confronted with the same difficulty.
Thanks to Prof. Fletcher and Dr.
Johnny Rankine the football squad
is ‘getting along’. But what’s to

   

  

As oats rok. ints finall forced them back :

‘ airy Nate dangek With only a few oa oe pe done wifh tee, is

| left in the half, Baleom plunged knows. What's to be ie seeds

‘Sele through for Acadia’s second un-convert- hockey? We hear Vince a eee
A ed try. Just before halj time Dal’s will handle the pucksters. ~Well that’s
ey attack seemed much more effective fine but what will happen another

year.

| ~ and Haley was forced to kick out of
several dangerous situations.

’ iy a In the second half, led by speedy] | It’s high time the Students Council,
oi : 7 Henry Ross, the Bengals made a D. A. A. C,. and University authorities
~} ——s determined effort to pull the game|met to consider a sane policy for
et, out of the fire. Still getting the ball|coaching. Thereisa way out. Acadia

it—Mount A. has found

tT a from the scrum the three-quarter has found
ae line made several nice runs with Ross | it and it’s well nigh time that Dalhousie
1 x and Laidlaw showing up well. Deadly | should find it.

|. __ tackling however cut their gains down
and ~warded off the danger to the
Py ss Acadia “line. The Axemen following
| up fast and pressing every advantage
sy finally shoved across their final try,
=H Archibald carrying the ball across
A> after the best running play of the day.

Dal now carried the play into Acadia
territory in a great attempt to avoid
a shut-out. Jack Kerr following up
fast on his own punt forced fullback
Ni Haley to fall on the ball well behind
ae his own 20 yard line to prevent a try.
Fe Bus Phillips lifted the resulting penalty
kick prettily over the bar to earn
the much needed three points.

For the last few minutes of the game
play stayed well in mid-field with
Acadia punting out of any danger and
Dal running up against a tight defense
in every play. f

Now don’t misunderstand the preceding paragraph. We are not critizing Sven A. Korning. He’s an excellent physical instructor. He can do
much to create interest in athletics
and we firmly believe he will. But
he’s not a team coach. We'll havc
to gét some system which will take
care of hockey, football and basketball and then we will have a complete
athletic system at Dalhousie.

The news has leaked out. The
D. A. A. C. are planning a bang-up
day for October 19th. If the University authorities will proclaim a
full College holiday it is planned to
hold the Interfaculty Track Meet
in the morning with two football
games in the afternoon and a Glee
Club show in the evening. If the
plan goes through it will be a gala
day for Dalhousie.

Haines, Ross and Laidlaw were
the pick of the Dal backfield while
Storey, Cook and Mushkat stood out
among the forwards.

  

   
  
 
 

 

 

  
 
   

 

  

dc.

| | ‘TOILET ARTICLES

e TAXI SERVICE
eee CONFECTIONERY

Bree A SERVICE

|. ca, |) FOUNTAIN SAFETY

ee, SATISFACTION

 
    

  
 
 

Courteous Drivers -- Calls
Answered Promptly

Cor. Sackville and Granville Sts,

B 6123 B 9614
—Give Us A Call—

-FADER’S

Pharmacy
29 COBURG RD.

    

  
 

    
  
 
 
  
   

  

Tentative Gymnasium Schedule

FALL TERM

MAIN FLOOR—

 
 

Monday evening - = = = CC. Ou Race
Tuesday evening = ‘=. -« D. G. A. C. night
Wednesday evening- - - - Open

Thursday evening - - - - D. A. A. C. night

Friday night - Open—to be used, as far as

possible, for Lectures,
Débates, Dances, Glee
Club Show, Concerts,
etc., etc.

D. A. A. C. afternoon
Faculty Badminton Club

Saturday afternoon Saturday evening

 

NOTE.—If it is found necessary to hold any lecture, debate,

concert, etc. on some evening other than Friday, the
group affected will be advised and moved to Friday for
that particular week.

SMALL GYMNASIUM—

Open to all male students on all evenings except when the
Main Floor is being used for Lectures, Debates, and other
gatherings of similar nature. The small Gymnasium may be
closed to the general student body at such times as special
classes are being conducted there by the Physical Director.

  

“It Wasn’t Told To Us ©

We Only Heard

Glory Glory For Dalhousie

Sacred Cow

(Continued from Page 3)

bovine up the basement stairs consisted
of J. A. MacKeigan, D. A. Cameron,
Ung Flemming, M. G. Burris, John
McMillan, G. D.. Finlayson, J. R.
Millar and H. F. MacRae.

It was reported that the cow had a
very restful night and that she greatly
appreciated the bale of hay that was
tloughtfully provided, but the footsteps from early classes distrubed her
slumbers and her bellows brought
the Janitor to her assistance, who set
her free and induced her to depart
through the front entrance and away
over the Campus to the shed in Josh
Hiltz’s back yard. A donation of
$5.00 had been left in the stable as

Congratulations to the Class of
1941. In one week they have done
more to instil a spirit of friendliness
around the Campus than their Seniors
have ever done.

They're as madas the Marx brothers,
that’s" true and they're just twice as
noisy. But oh! the Freshettes. The
very thought of them and our blood
turns cold, yes stone cold.

Oh yes the Frosh, Gawd bless ’em.
They drove street car conductors
absolutely mad. They gave unsuspecting motorists a headache and in

general Halifax has come to learn :
that 130 of the most enthusiastic |™muneration for her services and it was
college students ever to tread on|S@id that Josh expressed the wish that

the students would continue to make
further use of the noble cow.

On the following morning it became
evident that great improvement had
been wrought in the attitude of the
Senate and that the desired reformation
was complete. One member even
eulogized the cow, remarking that most
students had left their mark on the
college, and from what he had seen
the cow, too, had done likewise.

While thirty-two years and a lot of
water have gone over the mill since
that famous night in 1905, the memor
ies and the excitement of the event are
still very vivid in the minds of the
participants, and although a tinge of
sadness lingers at the sight of names
that have long since ‘“Shuftled oft
mortal coil’, one can readily imagine
a gentle chuckle in that ethereal realm
should the memories created by this
article vibrate that far.

ground have come to Dalhousie.

Don Juan
Easy girls—easy—after all he is the
President's son.

Romance in Rockingham

Last Sunday afternoon a _ partner
in crime of ours saw Sparrow Paine in
action at Rockingham. It was the
one and only, Della. Of course it
would be Della. The Great Lover
will go to the head of the Bay this
week-end.

Tripe From Truro

Another great romancer, one Murray
Gould by name, was also out and int
action last week end. Murray wishes
The Gazette to publish a retraction.
It is not Verna Moore, it’s Ferna
Moore. Ver¥ sorry, Murray.

Candid Cameras and Alcohol Don t

Mix NOTICE
The antics ,of the candid camera Students are reminded that they
fiends are bad enough, Gawd only|] are forbiddén to wear street foot
knows, but add to it what Ab Hanway
added to it last week and you've got
somethin’.

wear on the Gymnasium floor during exercise periods or hours.

 

  
   

Evening Dress....

Do you contemplate the purchase of tails to replace
that Tux? The trend is definitely towards the
more correct and formal full dress suit, with the
English Drape the leader in style. The higher
waisted, pleated trousers, the short vest and high
cut tail coat compliment the young man of today.

Shane’s Men’s Shop

30 Spring Garden Rd.

   
  
   
   
  
 
  

   
  
 
 

 

  
 

Discount of 10% to Dalhousie students on most lines.

  
 
 
  
 
   
     
   
   
   
       
     
    
  

  
    
   
  
 
       
   
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
 
  
   
  
      
    
  

October Sth, ‘Beh, 1967

 

DIA AXEMEN HAND TIGERS SOUND THRASHINC

RESULTS

RUGBY

Senior Dal3 Acadia 9

0

Intermediate Dal0 Navy

 

yoak and Field liver faculty God
Sports Mooted \Teams Start Play

There are certain sports for which | Arts and Science vs Engineers Oct. 14
our University has Varsity teams, | Law vs Medicine Oct. 16
and in which a very small percentage | Freshmen vs Arts and Science Oct. 16
of the student body participates, | Medicine vs Engineers Oct, 23
Proficiency in these sports requires | Law vs Freshmen Oct. 23
long and hard practice which may | Engineers vs Law Oct. 28
or may not reap success for the parti- | Medicine vs Freshmen Oct. 30
cipant. These sports are Tennis, Foot- | Art's and Science vs Law Oct. 30
ball, Basketball and Hockey. Engineers vs Freshmen

On the other hand, there is a sport Medicine vs Arts and Puen Ge
in which the University would like| 1° be played in week of Nov. 7.
to have a varsity team, but for some
unimportant reason has not. This All games will begin at 12: noon.

Where there is a double header scheduled the second game will immediately
the first. Two points will be
given for a win and one point for a tie.

sport comes under the title of TRACK
and FIELD.

In recent years outdecr Track and
Field has fared very poorly at Dalhousie, and the reason can be traced
to contributing factors. One

follow

First two teams to play-off in a sudden
death game.

many a
" In order that the league may be
of these is the school calendar. When : :
completed in time and a_ winner
the outdoor track season begins Dal- pls Seek ei
: : ee . (declared, it is very important that
housie is writing exams; when it 4 i
Dalh eg se ; my the various faculty managers have
ends, aihousie is closed anc ar . As
er) their teams out on time. Any team

students flung far and wide.

failing to appear for a scheduled game
without giving excuse to
the Interfaculty will forfeit
the game.

An_ Interfaculty
Meet will be held

Another factor is climate.
stretches of cold weather make it
inconvenient to hold outdoor track
and field practice, especially during
the months of October, November,
February and March.

The long sufficient

Manager

Track and Field
about October 20.

(Final date to be announced later).
Half of the answer to our problem|It is hoped that all Faculties will
would be INDOOR practice, and|be represented in this meet and help

INDOOR meets. Plans for such meetings are under way, and it is hoped
that the vast Halifax armoury can
be made available.

The other half, and undoubtedly
the more important of the two, is
the turning out of students to participate in the great variety of events
which Track and Field offers.

Running and jumping have been a
part of us ever since we were able to
stand. Participaticn in this sport
is a natural prerequisite to all other

to make the day a success. A list
of events will be published in The
Gazette at a later date.

 

8

TODAY
CAPITOL
“BROADWAY
MELODY

OF

sports. Proficiency in any event re- 1938”
quires short but diligent practice.
WITH
AH students, women as well as
men, who are interested in this type ROBERT

of sport will please report to Mr.
Korning at the gymnasium, or Henry
Gold, manager of Track and Field,
c/o Forrest Building.

TAYLOR
ELEANOR
POWELL

All are invited, and here is a grand
opportunity to break
competition.

OO CC rr ————— =
——

into varsity

 

 

 

 

Farmers’

CHOCOLATE MILK

IS DECIDEDLY BETTER -
It Is Made With Real, Full Cream Milk

*“Taste The Difference’’

Farmers’ Limited

HALIFAX, N. S.

  

 

 

 
