 

 

 

 

Attend E
Sodales
Trials

Next Week

    
  

| at
Redland

' To-morrow

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

; | i z by “|
/-VOL. LXVIII. ) HALIFAX, N. S., OCTOBER 15th, 1987 Boe

 

 

 

Pry
Sg a A

*,
re

; Alumni Banquet Hears Famed) Debate Trials On|Dr. Mott Talks To | Student Support Urged For
| Graduate Speak On Trip Prvarermme Dal Students Title Drive Of Dal Team

=

@.

 

TIGERS PLAY WANDERERS IN CRUCIAL CONTEST

=

ees

Ome

7m

ee 5 ee

2.

 

 

a large turnout for these trials, for
it is only with the enthusiastic support
of everyone that the big debating
program in view can be worked out
successfully. The trials will take the
form of 8 minute speeches. _Candidates may speak on either side of the
subject, “Resolved that the sit-down
strike is a just weapon in the hands of
organized labour,’’ the resolution of
which in the big debate Dal’s team
will uphold the Affirmative position.

On next Tuesday, October 19, try-| On Thursday, afternoon, Dr. |————— fe

“How long can we delay some outs will be held for the first big John R. Mott addressed the students Pack. Mo ; a The Dees smarting from two a
ordered plan of Empire development Campus Leader debate of the year, the debate against and faculty in the Dalhousie Gym- g aurne trouncings within a week, clawed 1
while the waste places remain unin- the visiting team from Bishop’s Uni- nasium, The speaker was introduced their way through several stiff work- iH
habited and while other nations find versity and Macdonald College which| by President Stanley, who said that outs on the Studley Campus this |
it almost impossible to breath because will tour the Maritimes under the} Dr. Mott has been so well known for week. Handicapped by injuries that f
of lack of space.” That was the auspices of the National Federation|so many years to young people all may prove to be very weakening, j
question the Rt. Hon. R. B. Bennett of Canadian University Students. over the world it was hardly necessary Dal coaches have striven to find ‘suit- ‘
left in the minds of 350 members of SGdalen exentitive de: hoping to ce to atroduce aes . pile replacements. | Watching the
the Dalhousie alumni association (and Dr. Mott began his talk by Squad as they went through their .

paces this week it looks as if the
Wanderers’ Redmen will meet a team
that will rise to superhuman heights
in order to win. A loss for Dalhousie
means finis to their aspirations of
another City League Title. Fifteen ~~
men will trot out on the field at Redland on Saturday with but one idea,
‘Win over Wanderers’. Fans who
saw the epic battles of last year when
the City League title was decided,
will again have the opportunity of
seeing a clawing tiger backed up

recalling his last visit to Dalhousie,
in 1888, when he was given a very
warm welcome by the students. He
praised Dalhousie for its present
beautiful location, and for the traditions it has preserved. He said he
had found Dalhousie men doing constructive work all over the world.

In his talk, Dr. Mott said that this
generation is the first that could make
an international generation. The stu| pendous changes in comparatively
ee years have made new leaders

a few students) in his address, ‘‘My
Trip about the World’, last Tuesday
evening.

“Wherever you have hundreds of
millions of people clamouring for land
on which to plant their feet and oneseventy-fifth of the world’s people
controlling one-seventh of the world’s
land, there you have danger. The
signs are everywhere and you young
men and young women, you graduates
of Dalhousie can give a lead to public
thought, to the expression of that

 

 

As you already know, most of our

 

: thought which is in the minds of all intercollegiate debaters were lost to|necessary all over the world, and this against the wall. Will they come
ef wart > ie ee us at last year’s graduation. We| generation must fill in the gaps. New through again? It looks like it now.

; ae ce need new men. This year may see| leaders are needed to lift some of the REV. DR. CLARENCE MACKINNON At the time of writing it seems that
Wein! Tribute to Dalhousie G. FRED DAY the beginning of many brilliant debat- | burden from the shoulders of those now Fullback Haines, who suffered injuries
ence Re. ors ing careers. So everyone who has/holding major positions. In answer (By Rev. D. Macleod, M. A.) to his ribs, will be out of tomorrow’s
VJ As guest of honour of the Alumni Elected President of the Council of |an idea, everyone who wants to get | to the question, ‘‘What should charac- ee ee game. Don Storey is also on the

of Dalhousie University, he paid a
warm tribute to the men who comprised its faculty and its predecessors
under whom he had _ studied law.
He acknowledged a deep debt of
gratitude to the institution, terming
it the most profound influence on his
life, excepting that of his mother,

S. R. Balcom, President of the
Alumni Association, occupied the chair,
and among those at the head table
with the distinguished visitor were
Premier Macdonald: the premier being
a graduate and former faculty member;
President Stanley Walker, of the
University of King’s College; J. McG.
Stewart, Chairman of the Board of
Governors of Dalhousie University;
Mr. Justice Archibald, Mayor Mitchell,
Miss Irene Pentz, representing the
women students, and Fred Day, Presideng of the Students’ Council.

A pleasing incident was the presentation to Hon. Mr. Bennett of the gold
“D”, highest award in the power of
the students to confer, one which he
said he long would cherish and remember.

Later Hon. Mr. Bennett paid a
warm tribute to the memory of the
late Hector McInnes, who at the time
of his death was chairman of the
Board of Governors and had but a
short time before signed a document

Students last March, Fred ‘‘Tag’’ Day |some experience in public speaking,|terize this leadership?”, Dr. Mott his injured list but we understand that
4th year Medical student, has com-| everyone who wants to see Dualhouaiera l'saie that first the leader must underpetently assumed his duties as leader | record of great achievements continued, | stand the background and traditions
of that body. Mr. Day is familiar |is urged to come to Room 8, Arts}
with Dalhousie student government | Building, next Tuesday noon, to give|and allow for the changes in psycho- of “Pine Hill Divinity: Hall
having served as Medical representa- | us the benefit of their experience and|logy. He must be a_ thinker, for :
tive on the Council last year. talents, and to ensure victory for their | people in general do not think enough. | Governors of this University. During | to receive the full support of every
alma mater. : He must be statesmanlike in~ that the past few months aSvonal at our | Student. While only the players can
. . Next Thursday at noon in the Arts|he needs the power of foresight. He distinguished University leaders have |S©°F®: €veryone realizes that an enSuccessful Dance building there will be held the first of |must be unselfish, for Christ said, | been called to higher service. To-day | thusiastic group of supporters can
a series of intra-mural debates designed |‘‘He who would be first among men}, deem ourselves much poorer as a do much to keep up the spirit of the =~
to give training and experience to all|must be servant of all." He must | witness the mortal remains of another |t®@™- Everyone can support a winwho desire to speak. The plan of |have courage, for he will have more| beloved and beneficient individual |™"g team, but its when a team is at |
entertained the Frosh at the Freshie- debate is simple. The leaders of the] to face than ever before. committed to earth’s verdant mould. the bottom that the support of its
Soph Dance, Wednesday evening. teams each speak 7 minutes with a Finally, he must be confident.) Though a sense of finality attends followers is most needed. So let’s
Ably chaperoned by Dr. and Mrs. 2 minute rebuttal at the close of the| Christ, acknowledged by everyone as! such natural events, yet in every case | S€& &Very student at Redland Saturday,
debate; and the leaders each have 5/|the greatest leader of all, possessed all| we have reason to commemorate, and let us, by our actions, show the
minutes. No decision is given, and | these qualities. not in a spirit of pessimism, but in | *4™ that the student body is behind
there is an opportunity for impromptu In conclusion, Dr. Mott said that|tones of joy and thankfulness. them,
speeches by the audience from the|whatever else you may miss, do not.

week Dalhousie has been ;
summoned to bow regretfully before ne will be en CBE ae

the passing of Rey. Clarence Mackin- |. s ee eee will Keep Dat ia
of the people with whom he is dealing, non, M. A., B. D.,-L. L. D., Principal | line for the championship, but a loss
will put the Wanderers in top place.

and for At sme lik
some years a member of the Board of Ata time like this the team deserves

 

 

 

The social whirl at Dalhousie started
with a bang when the Sophomores

 

Bell and by Prof. and Mrs. Bennett
the party was a huge success from
beginning to end. Jerry Naugler and

his Rhythm Aces were supreme in the = ; ;
field of music, and while the food was| oor of the house. The debate next |miss coming in contact with Christ,

s
= , eg : : in Hopewell, Pictou County, sixty- EF] R |
not up to the usual standard, never-| /hursday will see four promising ae hatever your impression may be ‘ican Mikael ection esu ts

‘ nine years ago. He received his early
baters taking part. it will transform your life. S .

 

The late Dr. Mackinnon was born

theless it was the outstanding FreshieSoph of recent years. —, —— : studied in Edinburgh. On returning

The dancing was featured by an to Canada he held pastorates in Stew
innovation to Iccal shin-digs, namely ilacke, Halifax, Sydney and Winnipeg.
“Trucking”. Introduced by a few | In 1909 he accepted the Principalship
hardy souls at the Students’ Council of Pine Hill College, which position
Dance it was seized upon by all the he has filled admirably up to the time
revellers and proved to be the high- of his demise. At the call of the
spot of the evening. (All those who nation in 1914, he responded wholewere not present and are interested

in this form of aesthetic dancing see

education in this land, and later

 

Richard Murphy was elected VicePresident of the Council of Students
with a majority of 31 over Jack Arnel
as approximately one-third of Dalhousie’s students marched to ‘Tfthe

 

   

  

Freshman Interviews

   

polls yesterday in a_ by-election.
Nancy Lawson will fill the Class ’39
vacancy on the Council left by the
absence of Betty Pearson. Miss Lawson polled 41 votes to 22 cast for

After a fortnight of expending their | that the delicate shade of our placards
surplus energy whooping around the!} would have better suited some of our

‘” *o . . sre * ae : . bs Ss ms" ree - - sever; eZ ‘
streets of Halifax, instead of attending | critics? heartedly, and served for several years

 

with the Canadian Forces overseas.

 

dealing with the centenary celebrations | Professors Scott and Arnell at the fees eae si eae al thers: intetviewed tad 25. ere Florence Armstrong. With ‘a’ total
to take place next year. Nolabor had | Sigma Chi house). te a fa Toga ae ee a Carleton Stanley, Jr., Halifax—l] His passing, at an early hour last |of 106 votes Byron Hatfield defeated
Ratks*téur BiierohE? “ao ‘ifconVventence There were speeches as well. Repre- | © find out w at they thought of Dal.| dont think. Just a blank. z Saturday morning, created a vacancy Henry Ballem by a majority of 28
taotgreat. for him:to beat-if it were on sentative Roly and Cheer-leader Mac- One group of freshettes, too shy to Reg Stubbs, Dartmouth—First of in the educational and religious life of |in the election for Secretary-Treasurer

behalf of Dalhousie, Mr. Bennett said| Kean» said a few appropriate words|have their names published, produced all Canadian football should be played. | Canada, the seriousness of which will | of the D. A. A. C.
\ of Me. McInnés. which were replied to by George | the following: The English game is not fast enough] be realized more fully as the’ years The total poll cast was 204 with
Noted in his address by Hon. Mr.|Hagen, the new President of the but would be better with a regular}advance. The Divinity Hall on the] five spoiled ballots. This is one of
Bennett, as significant to Canadians Freshman Class. The- Brosh Find— coach. Professors appear to do a lot North West Arm, with which his|the lowest polls cast at Dalhousie in
was the position of citizens in sister There were many outstanding inci ¥ Sone caey Coren ore pata a Peroonality woe pec allarky iden-|the past several years. Only 20%
nations of the Commonwealth with|dents in a highly eventful evenirib, That’ Dal'is even: better:than expect: | ne men. Iam proud to go to such a|tified and to which his powers were|of the Arts and Science faculty exer
respect to their constitution, distinguished college. unstintedly devoted, will stand as a|cised their franchise and of these but

For one thing we could not understand | ed. A rousing cheer for the Sophomore : 5 ;

Hon, Angus L. Macdonald, premier | why Murray paid $2.50 to yo and then| Committee. It was a week we'll] Marion Patterson, St. John’s, Nfld. essa his active life. No|/15 were co-eds, The professional
of Nova Scotia and a former member | left at 10 o'clock, telling the rest of | remember for many a moon (so will I don’t know what to say. It’s great pea in our memory, has given himself | schools polled 125 of the total ballot:
ay tienda av iathcaee Pad | Bic party be would he'back for them | e-varal ditizenar on lah). T's swell so fully and unselfishly to an educa-|This number is divided as follows:
School introduced the Conservative|at 2.20. We heard he spent the Doreen Dennis, Ottawa—It’s the | Ona! institution, It is scarcely pos-|23 in Law; 68 in Medicine; 34 in

. . . . . ms S e jr * Le + ai leader to his Dalhousian friends while | evening at the Squadron! sible to mention Pine Hill apart from | Dentistry.

, : eo a
: i
> a i ‘ i
1 .
.

Something puzzles us, though. Hay
ing revived a bit of the old Joe College best college I have ever attended

mn J. MacG. Stewart, chairman of the| Neither could your nosey reporter scteitAcud Wie nobel” beetle. The people are very friendly, especially i It was his mission and his life. Aa aca eae
‘ Board of Governors tendered thanks|see why Bud refused a drive home the Shisets “at bupetetlinus | ‘aehior the upperclassmen. I object to that| *&t, greater evidences of his varied Interfaculty Game
to Mr. Bennett on behalf of the Dal} from Studley Ave. Oh, yes, we hear ne Fx Dal a ol h _|last statement being printed. (Editor's abilities and creative powers are maniia famil : snickers, Is Dal a place where any lteter s Ste kjel aes fést in the lives of the men of sincerity
family. everything! Note.— Sorry we print everything).

; display of honest, whole-hearted en- i te: who have studied under his guidance. The Arts and Science tore the lid
To our great enjoyment we saw that thusiasm is scorned by blas¢ sophis-| Jac ae a seorias ee Across this great Dominion, ministers|Off the Interfaculty Rugby League
the party had been presented with a|ticates? While we admit a littlesmore| bad. I like it better than igh of Presbyterian and United Churches | yesterday by lacing the Engineers

 

: i. The Ss. €. M. will hold a y ¥ ATS = 7 . . ~ il 9 4 fes r > - °
: . betty cms Peicded Gatsher 18, 1 aiiprenee reg: and Charlotte. restraint might have been in order, Se Sw ee ee bear the impress of his effective tutelage |12 to 6. After a shaky start which
bet 8 < de f ore and better dancing by amateur| we think you upper classmen need BG) SAYS 2) PEF CUCU. BPP TA aver tien with deepest gratitude |allowed the Boilermakers to score
ek sh ae ee ee SE: Ae Moms, o couples, we say! some prodding. Is it that you are|all right, Jack, so did we). tothe Fz ! Qae ¢ hi evil six points, the Arts men tore through
elt Helen Munro, 13 Waegwoltic ay vo Pe ae RN Ae ae a FT 4 H Vv ae SAS eer Gal Tne 1OF- Fae Pv eeee |S = Re aS :
a tei ? 7 Anyway it was a lovely party and | afraid to show us you're alive? Grant- Harry Housser, Vancouver—Beau- | they have had to study at his feet. for four unconverted tries. Neither
y we hope the other societies and classes|ed that the hue of our hats was ap-|tiful town... . Beautiful college. ...and team was at full strength but they
7 will profit by this example. propriate, may we humbly suggest |Oh the young girls. (Continued on Page 4) turned in a rousing game,

   
 
    
 

    
 

ey haw

Founded 1869. “The Oldest College Paper in America”’.

    
  

af Ne

 

 
 
  
  
  
 
   
   
    

a a

se? GAZETTE STAFF.

_— Editors-in-Chiey.

E. F. MERCHANT:
B-0254,

Associates.

io

bbitt Parlee, B.A. =
John F. Finlay, B. A.

a

z

; 1 Roland Hurst.
Peggy Merkel.

Leonard Kitz.

1

i
r

    
  
   
 
  
   
  
  
  
   
  
    
  
    
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 

. ( ae Sh

=

Cr , Editor. Sports Editor.
2D MURPHY. JOHN DICKEY, B. A.
/B-2427. B-5545.

Business Manager.

R. L. ARMSTRONG, B. A.
B-5700.

SUPPORT OUR ADVERTISERS

The existence of almost every newspaper, whether large or
small, depends to a great degree upon the amount of advertising
_which appears in its columns. Here at Dalhousie, The Gazette

is conducted upon a slightly different basis than most journals of
kind inasmuch that a lump sum is allocated to it by the Council
Students at the beginning of the year out of the Council fee paid
the students, themselves. Yet the amount of paid advertising
The Gazette is a vital necessity to its well-being for it allows us
publish a paper which offers a much greater service to the stuthan would otherwise be possible.

The custom of the student body of Dalhousie is eagerly

   

ht after by City merchants and other concerns and for this
son they seek to advertise their goods in the students’ publicaon. For this they naturally pay and like all of us, they expect
nething in return for their money. Some of our advertisers
re complained that to pay for space in The Gazette is akin to

_ making a contribution to student activities rather than a business
proposition, “‘for’’, they say, “we get nothing in return.’
Si Oe ee a ee
students, pay for The Gazette. The more economioretically the more money you make, for you beney in other forms of student activity. Hence it is
hat our advertisers should get someid so we ask you to

  

ERTISERS. When you intend to make a

ie adve eee ~The Gazette. At least
»portunity of serving you. We assure you
able firms are given space in these pages.

iy hee te . 1
Wee AP en - c

   
      
    
 
 
  
  
     
    

  

 

- COLLEGE SPIRIT

e spirit at last Saturday’s football game was deplorable.
were led to expect a new era in enthusiasm with the arrival
his year’s Freshman class, but evidently they too have fallen
to the despondent attitude that was so prevalent a few years
_ After the manner in which they have acted during the last

een ty o weeks we assured ourselves that they would be out in a solid
oA My ody to devote their spirit to the good of the team. Instead they
__were scattered through the stands, singly and in small groups,
ese 2 with no attempt at organization. One member of the Freshman
-_ elass told us that they had received no instructions as to what they
should do. This was the fault of the Sophomore Initiation Committee, and we lay the blame in this quarter for the period of acti
i

ties under their control had not yet ended, and it was their re
ponsibility to see that the Freshmen were there, fully prepared
4s a unit, to support the players.

    
     
 
 
   

   

  
  
  
  
    

‘PCs aan

be: Speaking of cheering brings to mind our self-appointed cheer
é es . . .

, In this capacity, and as Chairman of the Sophomore

  
  
  

eT Agi ip

Initiation Committee, he had full charge of the team’s support.
_ Our criticism here is that there wasnot enough cheering. We
L: admire him for his hardihood in even attempting to lead a cheer

____ but we also think it should be done in a fitting manner. Why not

    

_ two or three more men, dressed distinctively, to carry on the good
= work? This lies directly in the field of endeavour belonging to

ah he D. A. A. C., and we feel they should take some action towards
improving the situation. Dalhousie has only one real cheer, the
ever popular U-Pi-Dee, but this was heard very rarely in over an
~ hour of play. We regret to say its position was usurped by an

on a ‘

imported yell.

   
  
  
 
   

. Lait
. i ed ”
y 4a oak
¥ ae}

*

We now come to the band from whom great things were expected after their sterling performance last season. Vague ru_ mours were heard that they were busy learning new selections,
.. but instead of the stirring tunes we had expected only mournful
notes were hurled out into the chill autumn air. They know, or
ean learn, popular marches so why are they not played in preference to these other selections? We were also struck by the evident lack of practise for which there is no excuse. In our opinion
the situation calls for a complete reorganization of the Band Committee by the Student’s Council. The band can do a great deal in
conjunction with an enthusiastic group of supporters, therefore an
_ improvement in this organization is absolutely necessary.
ea
__ We have set forth certain reforms which we sincerely hope
be carried. The spirit at Dalhousie is better now than in
ent years and we expect to see it raised to an even higher degree
ough the co-operation of the Freshman class. When these
ious suggestions are carried through, as we feel sure they will be,
Jalhousians, past and present, will present a cheering sec
é
# =

rthy of the name.

 
  
   
   
  
   
    
    
  
 

BZ

"

  

Fantasy - - Fancy
and Fact

“Espagna Una! Espagna Grande!
Espagna Libre!’’ concludes a_ fellow
writer in last week's Ga’ette in a dissertation of the journalistic wrongs
done to Rightist Spain. The worthy
charge decides the government is
completely in the hands of the Communists, and gently states the cause,
remarkable in its perspicuity and
simplicity, of the present conflict.

 

 

Forget the catchword and formulae,
O Recorder, let us keep the healthy
skepticism so necessary in regarding
international matters. Despite the
lucidity shown in “Cheers for Democracy’’ a more complete, even if complex,
picture may be a truer setting for that
unhappy country. It is problematical!
if the present conflict was caused
simply by ballot tinkering in a remote
province of Spain.

War, O Transcriber, is usually a
complex matter. Is it not possible
that Italy wants a perch to better
view her mare nostrum? Can it be
that Germany would like an unfriendly
force at the rear of France? Is Russia
not concerned with a nation joining
forces with her enemy? This ts old
observation but necessary it seems.
To jump lightly on one side, to espounce
it blindly is to step forward on ground
that angels are reluctant to tread.

 

Let us note publicity given locally
on the war. There was a speech at
Dal by Dr. Bethune. It was an
interesting speech. The one obvious
facult was the ignoring of Russia
completely. Later the doctor was
to go on the air. The local station,
sitting in solemn judgment decided
a certain question should not be
asked the speaker that he might reply
to it over the air. Part of the local
press next day printed the question
and answer in rehashed form.

It follows:—

Ques.—Are there any misconceptions, or if you like falsehoods, to be
found in Canada? |

Ans.—The second (referring to a
previous question) falsehood I have
encountered is that Spanish Loyalists
are Atheists. Three weeks ago the
government passed a decree permitting
observation of all religious ceremony
in Loyalist Spain. I have myself
attended services in the Lutheran
Church in Madrid several times last
winter. The Basque Roman Catholics
are the most devoutly religious people
in Spain, yet they are all fighting on
the Government side against -the
Rebels.

No great cause celeire is herein
meant, Fellow Scribe. Propaganda is
a mighty force in a match where public
opinion can be mustered. War is
war, however, and how many atrocities
equal one depravity is as hard to
figure as how many sheep equal one
cow. Whatever side wins they willl
have to pay the piper. The piper
as Russia will doubtlessly seek payment. The piper in the form of
Italy and Germany will await upon
a Spain that will hold its hat in its
hand when addressing those nations.

The one anomoly of the situation
seems to be why Germany is not
damned along with Russia in its
attack against a completely free religious choice. The right of religious
instruction in Germany in the public
schools has been denied to point
out but one advancement against
religion in that country. A strange
situation indeed it would be for a
victorious Rebel Spain to come under

the dominance of such a nation.
eee eR aes Seta
9 ©
Students’ Council
Dance
The Student's Council entertained
all Dalhousians at one of the most
enjoyable dances ever held in the

Gym. Excellent music, provided by
J. D. Sadler and his Orchestra, and
fine food kindly donated by various
city firms, helped speed the occasion
on its way to success. Al Foster
gave’ the ladies an hilarious idea as
to what the Fall Fashions will be like,
and then chipped in with a song to
aid the general merriment. A feature
of the party was the brand of ‘‘Trucking’? put on by certain members of
the gang, notably ‘“‘Nectique’’ Scott
and ‘Mint’? Boyd. This new craze
is undoubtedly here to stay for it
has been seized upon with great joy
by certain party-goers. Long may it
reign. ;

LE

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

October 15th, 1937

 

etter to the
Editor

Dear Mr. Editor:—

Under the caption ‘‘Dalhousie University sets bad example employing
foreigners”, The Halifax Citizen, the
labour paper of this city, this week
lashes out with vicious fury upon the
powers that be at Dalhousie University.

The article concerns itself with the
appointment of Sven A. Korning,
physical instructor of this University,
and asks why a Canadian was not given
the post.

The following are three paragraphs
taken from the article:

L

 

“What excuse, or reason, has Dalhousie to offer in this matter of appointing an Instructor of Physical Training
from Denmark? Can the authorities
declare with truth that in all Canada
there is no man qualified to hold that
position? Have the authorities tried
to discover such a man?”

“The fact remains that Dalhousie
in this appointment has. deliberately
smacked Ca\nadians in the face, by
saving in effect: “There isn’t a Canadian the whole Dominion equal
to the job of teaching a few hundred
college lads physical training exercises
—so we're going to Denmark to find a
man!”’

in

‘Dal students are being educated to
occupy positions in law, medicine
engineering and commerce. They will
naturally, and rightly, look for jobs
in their particular sphere when college
days are over. But supposing that
Canadian industries follow the example
of Dalhousie and fill what positions
they have by men imported from other
countries?”

What do you think of the appointment?

It merits your serious consideration.

Strangely enough college students
do not always stop to think. The
general idea is that if the University

says this man Korning is the right’

man then he is the right man and
there’s no question to be asked.

But The Citizen raises a_ point.
It certainly provokes thought.

Let’s hope Canadian industry does
not take it out on us.

DALHOUSIAN

 

We Want Commerce
Contributed Editorial

What’s to become of the department
otf Commerce? That is a question
which has been bothering every serious
minded student of this
during the past few weeks.

University

Is the department to be discontinued
for good?

Is the university to discontinue
granting a degree in commerce?

For what reason or reasons was the
department discontinued for the present
year?

What was the decision of the Board
of Governors in the matter?

These are the questions, we, the
students of this university would like
to have answered. Students of this
university are interested in Dalhousie’s
welfare and feel that they should be
informed as to what is going one,

For the past few weeks we have
been kept behind a cloud. The matter
has been quietly put away in the closet
and students have réceived no information whatsoever as to what
happen.

is to

Students of the department on
returning to éollege this fall went into
the office of the registrar. Applied
for registration in classes of the department of commerce. “They're not
being taught this year,” was the
answer. When the student asked what
was to happen to the department of
commerce the answer usually was,
“We don’t know—we're not sure.”

Well the obvious answer to all this
is that somebody must know. It’s
time we did now.

What does President Stanley think?
What does the Board of Governors
think?
SS

Dental Advice.

My boy, beware of the baby stare,
Because if it’s a bluff,

She knows too much—and if it’s not
She doesn’t know enough.

 

 

“What are you fussing about now?”
“Well, | can’t remember where | packed my Sweet Caps!”

SWEET CAPORAL CIGARETTES

“The purest form in which tobacco can be smoked.” —{ancet

 

CASINO

Three Days Starting Saturday October 16th

BIRKS

Fountain pens and pen
 

cils just received are de
MARLENE
d 2
pen anle and inexpen DIETRICH
sive—ideal for student eel
use. ROBERT
DONAT

“KNIGHT
WITHOUT
ARMOR”

Henry Birks & Sons
Limited
Diamond Merchants

Halifax

 

 

 

See ee ee
Halifax Ladies’ College & Conservatory of Music

University Students may register for
Voice Training—either Singing or Public Speaking
Appreciation -—popular course—Beethoven’s music.

Instrumental —Violin, Piano, Organ, one or two lessons a week.
Practice rooms available.

The new four year course.

—Home Economics.

Phone B-6524

Next year

     
 

When You Need

 

 

DRUGS MEDICINES PRESCRIPTIONS
or any other Drug Store Merchandise
You get better SERVICE and VALUE
at KINLEY’S DRUG STORES
-- ZIPPER CASES -
ALL SIZES MADE TO YOUR ORDER
At Reasonable Prices

AELLY’S LTD.

118 GRANVILLE ST.

9/10 of an Iceberg is Invisible

NINE-TENTHS of the tailoring skill that sets Colwell’s
clothes apart is also invisible......the canvas, and
Hymo and the hand moulding that assures you that
your Colwell’s garment will retain its shape until
the last day worn, are not visible to the eye—yet they
are an integral part of the garment.

Your wisest investment in lasting satisfaction —

Colwell’s clothes, moderately priced from $2 1,50

COLWELL BROTHERS

LIMITED
“The English Shop”
453-457 BARRINGTON STREET

 

 
  

Dr es

 

   
   
  
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
    
  
 
 
 
 
    
 
  
 
 
 
  
   

Loi

pra on Seems To Us

 

After allowing it to lie dormant

———
Little Cooperation

for two years T. Y. M. again lifts

his pen. Though some might think

that the long retirement has dulled
the edge of his editorial knife, he will
endeavour to show that the edge of
that knife is whetted.

Please!

By Roland Hurst
Fraternities might be powerful orga
This implies an awakening but nizations on this Campus, but they're

what good
when the student body seems to have

gone to sleep? The first meeting

of the Medical Society was enough
to cause grave misgivings. We recall
days when an election of the sort
which took place would never have
occurred. One candidate for each
oflice! Though the choice was excellent, why the lethargy? - The restraint
and shyness would have put a grammar
school meeting to shame. And who
would call the attendance of sixty-five
in an organization having more than
two hundred members, adequate?
Wake up!

Our agents too are stirring. Beware!

One of them may be your roommate.

Agent B. Proteus X-19 is bad, but

took out for Agent Staphylococcus

Aureus. He gets under your skin.

_ As the result of their investigation:

We Wonder

Which fourth year man almost had
a pile of grief on the Q. T?

How many times Johnny Morrison
coughed the night he strained his back?

Whose theme song is ‘““My Wild Irish
Ross’? Eh, Henry?

Now that the Jubilee has closed,
around which new rendezvous the love
lives of the Senior Medical Students
will revolve?

Which two of our prominent Meds

(at least one with blonde hair) lost:

four orders of delicious fish and chips
the other evening while calling at a
Bitesstie on that exclusively residential
Starr Street. Did their husbands
“Harris” you, boys?

Which second year man who gained

> thirty pounds over the summer and

DW sleeping per tont a Pillow to
Lon

: lady in

ng on the day. of the first
game and ten dance. And

“When 1 Basil Coady" s slightly scrat
om Bsibed-Gacer will once again permit the
PS good doctor to do a man sized job
at the V, G. and when Sid Bennett’s
promise may be relied upon.
‘another shower at the end of the

There’s

rainbow,

 

That Lipitz is taking his medicine
so seriously that he tried to enact a
portion of Dr. Carney’s lecture with
an imitation of a babe in arms.

That Hugh Alexander Chisholm
“Hoodie” must have felt quite chagrined when it turned out that his new
feminine ‘find’? who, Hoodie says, is
“Marty lak a rose’ had been attending
Phi Rho parties for years.

That G. G. Simms, the Doctor,
would hardly have realized the scenic
beauties of the Cabot Trail were it
not for his good friend Roy Gold.

Graham is still wondering who his

companion was. He'll have to find
a new hotel for next year’s trip.

That Doc Roy
weary after
through New England and Eastern
Canada. The eternal . triangle
new angle to the genial Doc.

looked somewhat

We Congratulate

The newly elected officers of our
May their administration be as successful as that of

Medical Society.

their predecessors.

The newly married members of our
The number of marriages
in recent weeks is reaching epidemic
During the past week
we have been informed of five new

alumni.
proportions.

nuptials. We extend best wishes to
Doctors Winfield (Halifax), DuBilier
(Jersey City, N. J.), Muir (Punjab,
India), Whitman (Dartmouth and

Westville) and Coward (Halifax, now’s

his chance to apply his pediatrics).

The day when the proverbial ‘wolf
shall dwell with the lamb’ has apparently come to pass in our Med. School.
We note that after a hectic rushing
period the boys of two Frats are still
on speaking terms, and are even

quite. a Stew by die .

his barnstorming trip

is no

is such an awakening! not.

The reason why they're not was
demonstrated last Tuesday night when
a certain fraternity on this Campus
chose to hold a ‘‘Rushing Party” the
same night the Dalhousie Alumni
Association conducted a banquet for
the students and the alumni at the
Nova Scotian Hotel, at which the
Rt. Hon. R. B. Bennett was the chief
speaker.

The purpose of fraternities should
tend toward the co-operative.— Our first
duty is first to the University and then
to ourselves. Did the members of
of the fraternity remember that duty
when they heard of the conflict between
their dance and the Alumni banquet?

Last year this same fraternity chose
to hold its annual Fraternity Formal
on the same evening the Junior Class
had billed. the Junior Prom.

Was that sportsmanship?

Now antagonistic as this article
may at first seem it is not written
with that intent. We are not out to
kill this fraternity’s chances in the
annual Rushing Bee. Personally we
have a high regard for the members
of this fraternity individually. As a
body however the group shows a
disregard for Dalhousie, her students,
faculty and alumni.

The point we wish to sa deeats
is this, ‘““You’ve been bad boys—we
forgive you—but please don’t let us
have a recurrence of this type of
thing.”

Don’t give the anti-fraternity men
on this campus a chance to point their
fingers at we fraternity men and say,
“Look they're ruining the college.”
Instead, let us unite and co-operate

‘to form a bigger and better Dalhousie.

In Unity there is strength—in
conflict and adversity there is nothing.
Let's have unity. Thanks.

 

Pir ine abil Vigsiettes

of first importance this week from
Pine Hill comes the comforting news
for the Sophomores, that Melvin
Brown has been “dealt with’. We
might go so far as to say that his,
spirit is somewhat dampened. Well.
if not his spirit, at least his pyjamas.

Apart from this manifestation of
unknown powers on behalf of the
Sophies, there is very little to tell
the outside world concerning student
activities. The annual Football game
has been cancelled this year. Everyone is looking forward to the Freshman
entertainment. Things are necessarily
quiet, as the Theologues have not
put in their appearance.

The Casino Theatre was host to
about a score of Hillers at the Mid-nite
Show. The Management didn’t seem
to appreciate them. And was there a
hectic ride home on the ‘ole number
seven?

Reg Ash seems to have deserted
the Residence. He wasn’t in much
of the time he was registered, either.
He’ll be missed, or rather his impersonations of Royalty will be missed
Bon voyage, Reg.

It looks like a record crowd this
year, Over one hundred in the offing.
A large proportion of these are nontheologues (bless “em) which will
put a little more ‘“‘umph’’ in the place.

What does Jimmie Milner see in
Jessie Matthews? Echo answers What.

What does Pat Patton do nights now?

How many women does Bill Crummey need in one night anyway?

Wallie S. (not Simpson) wants to
know is it really love?

seen at shows together. The new era
is welcomed by all, long may it reign!

SHADES OF SHEP FIELDS at
the Phi Chi smoker with Wally Sellar
and his hay fever quartet (snifiling

rhythm) singing the new doctors song
“M. D. Saddles in the Old Corral”,

In parting we should like to ask our
gag loving Dr. Smith why he has never
told us in speaking of Streptococcus
that he is a fugitive from a chain gang.
T. Y. M. (your guess is as good as the
next fellow’s).

Obiter

By this time all the Frosh have
discovered that the wisdom of the Uni
versity is centered in the Sophomore|/It is as funny as

class. This is, I believe, open to question. It may be fairly argued, Freshmen, that the faculty have quite a
considerable quantity of that desirable quality, and you may discover
that some of the upperclassmen (ah,
blessed word) have it too. But do
not be discouraged, because the latter
haven't much of it. Some of them had
more when they entered.

Iconoclast

The Freshman are the most important people in this or any other University. The reason is this, that if
there were none, by 1941 there would
be no University. (I disregard the
class who think that Universities would
be better off without students anyway.)
For this very obvious reason then the
Freshman should be treated with great
respect. Above all, they should not
be looked down upon, but they should
be treated with as great care as one
would handle some fragile object.
(The little dears.) This year’s Frosh
are to be congratulated for their fine
showing of spirit, an almost negligible
characteristic of Dalhousie. [| am told
that they have made themselves quite
a nuisance in the city, which alone is a
very creditable thing. But add to
that the way they have stood up against
the barrage from the foolishly wise, and
then it will be seen that each and every
one of them should have a medal.
(Leather, three for five at any good
harness shop.)

On Breaking the Ice

Because they show this fine spirit,
the Frosh should. show their wisdom
once more and follow the advice of the
leaders of the student organizations
who addressed them with such sparkling oratory a week or two ago. The
hardest part of getting into the so-called
Varsity activities is getting into them.
That is breaking the ice. Take inspiration from the fine example set by
the Fotball team last Saturday (and
the Saturday before that.) -Learn

|something about the college you at
tend, if only so that you can blow
about it when you are released in
1941 with the stigma B. A. on you.
If you do not as I do but as I tell you,
you will discover that Dalhousie has
many distinctive fetures that other
colleges cannot claim. Look into the
Library and see what is there that will
interest you. See the Gymnasium,
one of the largest tn Eastern Canada,
and bear in mind the old fellow who
hit upon the greatest thing a modern
college has to offer, ‘mens sana in corpore sano.’ (That doesn’t mean I
know Latin, only that I have access
to a good dictionary.) Look beyond
this to other fields. Perhaps you are a
second Clark Gable like the stars you
saw on the stage the other night. Or
is Caruso your god? Whatever it is,
there is some use to which it can be
put at Dal, so do it now. You only
get out of this world what you put
into it. While that sounds hackneyed,
and doesn’t always apply, as in the
case of a broken slot machine, it is
good advice. It is obvious and consequently most people don’t see it,
but its there. Take it.

D.A.A.C. Meeting

The D. A. A. C. held a long and
torrid meeting on Sunday, Oct. 10th.
Out of the fury Manager Bill Scott
emerged with appropriations for the
Basketball teams which will appear
this year in new uniforms. In spite
of rumours that the Council will be
forced to cut its budget this year,
the D. A. A. Cs is determined that
Sport at Dalhousie will not suffer.

The next business to come _ before
the Committee was the application
from King’s College to enter the
Interfaculty Track Meet. After all
sides of the question had been aired
it was decided to extend an invitation
to Kings to enter either all or none of
the Interfaculty Sports.

The Dalhousie Band was next
discussed and it was decided to press
the Council for greater activity on
the part of the Band Committee. The
Management Committee feels that
Dal can produce a good band and
will take the necessary steps to see
that its development is in no wavy
impeded.

On motion the meeting adjourned
at 1.45 p. m.

 

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 
 

LL eee

     

Try Your Molar

Cheer up friends. Here is_ the
dental columin you've been waiting for.
its critics—THE
MEDS. Judge for vourselvesand weep.

Dafly Tale.

They're telling about I. A. S.,
ultra-fashionable lunatic. This screwball insists that if he has to wear a
straight-jacket, it must be doublebreasted. (Call me esquire).

an

Telephone Conversation.

“Say honey,” Timmy cooed, ‘will

you have dinner with me tonight?”
“Of course I will,” she replied.

“O. K.” he said speedily, ‘Tell your

fF

mother I'll be over at 7.
Pay Your Denta! Society Dues.
Things are so bad with Maxy G.

that when asked for dues he replied,
“Listen, I recently asked an orchestra

to play ‘Poor Johnny One Note’ for me,
and they refused—unless I got two
co-makers.”’
Fable.

The Fuller Brush Man (formerly

Physician) knocked at the door. A
woman appeared. ‘‘Lady” asked the
Fuller Brush Man, “isn’t it time you
got rid of your old carpet beater.’,
“Of course,” replied the woman’
“Are you a divorce lawyer.”

Sounds Heard Near and Around

Town.

In the Library—Her favourite colour
is green—with envy.

In the dental lab.—He’s a good bet
for the movies. They're betting he'll
flop.

In Forrest Hall—He’s so phoney
that when he checks out of a hotel he
bounces.

In the Yacht Club—It’s a good thing
Columbus didn’t come over on the
Endeavour or the Indians would still
own this joint.

On the Campus—Their Romance
started like a feature and ended like a
short.

In the Nova Scotian—Aren't you
afraid I'll miss your toupee?

In the Green Lantern—When she
was 18 she started to have her fling,
and she’s been flung around ever since.

At the Glee Club Show—Her coiffure
looks as though it were inspired by
Harpo Marx.

In Shirreff Hall—Poor  girl—she
spends half her time making herself
beautiful, and the other half contradicting it.

Ingenious.

Beggar—“Have you got
money for a cup of coffee.”’

Professor—"“Oh, I'll manage somethank you.”

enough

how,
Quite So, Quite So.

So you had a date with a Med

student?
No, I tore my dress on a nail,

And now introducing the Dental
School—
Thumb-nail Sketches—(Seniors—

Theme song—Mr. Gardner, Mr, Gardner, Mrs, Gardner).
Skippy Aaronson—The destroyer.
O. W. Crummy—Pine Hill Lothario.
Zet Danziger—We need cooperation.
Tubby Egan—Politician.
Gee Fruchter—Sleepy.
Trumpet Gold—Dr. Dawson's image.
Wee Willie Harnish—Gotta stampSlugger Lipton—The mighty atom.
Dubsy Levin—5c. to use my varnish.
Leve Millar—I’ll tell ya.

Timmy Meadow—Always hungry.

Tommy Rogers—The mighty hammer.

W. R. Scott—Storekeeper ‘The
Gyp.”’

Bangy Shatz—I got a girl friend
home.

Poopthy Simonowitz—A voice.

Vinny Scarpone—I’ll send my army.

Picadilly Sloan—-I wouldn’t steer
you wrong.

Next week, meet the Juniors.

circus—circus—circus

With these pleasant thoughts I
leave you, and until next week I
remain

Your heckler and mine,

F, ¥) Ms

 

 

Page Three

 

   

    

so
be

Ever Get Hungry?

It

when one gets hun
is a good sign

gry, and a good sign
also when you select
THE GREEN LANTERN

ment.

for refresh
The Green Lantern

Student’s Patronage Appreciated

SHAVES - HAIRCUTS
SHOE SHINES

—Good Service—

LORD NELSON HOTEL
BARBER SHOP

A. PUBLICOVER, Prop.

 

Neilson’s

THE BEST CHOCOLATE

C.377

 

 

 

DRUGS

CHOCOLATES

FOUNTAIN

 

MacLeod, Balcom

Limited

 

 

 

 

THOMAS WALLAGE

SONS and DAUGHTERS
SIGHT SPECIALISTS

Y. M. C. A. BUILDING
Halifax, N. S.

OAK HALL BUILDING
Sydney, N. S.

“Tf You Want to See Well See
Wallace”

 

 

THREE SERVICES

To cover the laundry
needs of college students

FIRST SERVICE

A special list price for
the student who wishes
to send less than a dozen
articles.

SECOND SERVICE

For those who have
a dozen or more pieces
to be laundered.

The Price — 60c. per
dozen.

THIRD SERVICE

The lowest fully finished price in the city
for the student with a
large bundle.

8c a pound

Min. 12 lbs.—95c.

The Halifax
Steam Laundry

Phone L-2309.

 

DRY CLEANING

PRESSING
REPAIRING

DYEING

 

SPECIAL LOW RATES
for Students

 

Suits - Coats - Dresses

Dry Cleaned 5
Nidan Service) 6 C

Suits Sponged and

45c

Telephone L-2323

Pressed

or see our representative
at your Frat House or
College Residence

 

COUSINS Ltd.

Master Cleaners and Dyers

 
  
   

_ SCHEDULE
RUGBY

SS | DAL VS. WANDERERS»
_ SATURDAY, OCT. 16.

=F

E ee pee MUETY

- 2%,

 

Oct. 23
&< 23

Bc Dal Macaueteers
_ Trounce Axemen

*
a?

: te In the first round of the Maritime
Intercollegiate Tennis Championship,

) Dalhousie racqueteers overwhelmed an
. , Acadia team by the score 11-2 with 6
oe matches left unplayed. Acadia were

‘

    
   
 
  
      


___-without the services of two star players,
. Roy Lockhart and Burpee Balcom,
i who, due to participation in football.
ae 5 ‘were unable to accompany the teams
ee ee The Dalhousie champions—winner
Bei
aay to the Maritime Intercollegiate Title
_ since its inauguration—were in little
danger of defeat at any time. The

   

7
Na
LP a
jt
<>) oe
>

the New Brunswick Title is uncertain

on Saturday, October 16th.

- ship round:

we Men's Singles—Hugh Little, Dal,

| def. Ray Morton 7-5, 9-7; Babe Stewart, Dal def. George DeWitt 6-4, 6-3;

Bob Dimock, Dal def. L. Williams, 6- 8,
6-2, 6-4; Ben Wilson, Acadia def. K.

_ Garten 4-6, 6-4, 6-1; Art Mercer, Dal
, def. G. Wheeler, 6-0, 6-2.

. wae Men's doubles—Babe Stewart and
a ‘Karl Garten, Dal def. Ray Morton
: a ‘aad L, Williams, 6-4, 6-4; Hughie
> A Wieeles and Bob Dimock, Dal def.

~ ened me

git

dia def. C. Sullivan 7-5, (

te eer:

  

» = 6-2, 12-10; Maureen Allen, Dal def.
June Phinney 6-1; 61.

Mixed -doubles—Arthur

eran Joan Phinney 6-1, 6-3

 

Feminine Sport

Girls’ athletics in Dalhousie show
. prospects of being the best in years.
To support this is the result of the
ally held in the Chemistry Theatre
on Thursday, Oct. 7th, which proved
to be the largest turnout toa D. G. A.C.
meeting in years. Miss Anne MacLean,
the newly appointed games coach,
gave an enthusiastic talk, and was
greeted with a warm reception. Nearly
everyone knows Miss MacLean, and
‘those who don’t, will think what a.
grand sport she is, just like the rest
of us when they get to know her better,
_ Mr. Korning also spoke a few words
regarding his part in girls’ sport
_ which will be chiefly to direct Danish
Gymnastics and European handball,
the latter having never before been

, played by girls in the province.

an,

< Beginners’ classes in basketball and
badminton will be given a great deal
of attention this year; in previous years
not sufficient attention has been given

- to beginner's classes. We do hope

the girls will take advantage of these
classes, and use them to the utmost
advantage.

Tennis is almost finished for this
‘year, although a game with Mt. A.
is to be played yet. The girls on the
ip! team certainly did their share in
making the score 9-2.

ova,

Ground Hockey starts immediately.
_ Alison Conrad expects a large turnout.
Games with Edgehill and Halifax
las) . retained College are being arranged.
oe Basketball will start earlier this year,
oo tie first practice will take place within
pied ‘the next week orso. Manager Florence
. ‘ ‘rong is expecting the largest
ALTA eis turnout i in years. The freshettes, being
such an enthusiastic lot, will help to

s tog

make these turnouts much larger.

  
 
 
 
  
   

“ oe Classes. in tumbling and swimming
{5 | also prove of interest.
i oe. ee eiae made by D. G, A.C.

ard more enthusiastic sport will
v sli efforts have not been in vain.

  
 
   

 

    
 
  
   

AY

   

date of the Maritime Championship
Match between Dal and the winner of

as the N. B. Champions have as yet
not been declared. The match in all
_ probability will be played in Halifax

    
 
 
 

~ Results of the Provincial Champion
George, a and Ben Wilson 6-4, =

A Wont Sinate pHi Pentz, a
iene Crease 62 6-0; Dot ll llesley |
6-2: Joan
Dal def. E DeWitt 6-3, 6:1;
< Pe - Zylpha Linkletter, Dal def. Babs Harris

    
 
   
  
 

Mercer
and Maureen Allen, Dal def. G. Wheel
 

by
ROLAND HURST

Last Saturday 15 persistent and
rather pugnacious Redmen (attn. Red
Grant) came out to the Studley field
and taught Dalhousie’s fightin’ Tiger
that the game isn’t over until the
final whistle.

The 15 Redmen caught h--- in the
first half. Dalhousie had it over
them like a tent. The scrum heeled
the ball like a machine. K. Smith
with his little short kicks and speedy
follow ups had them floundering.
Vie Haines after a very shaky start
settled down and smashed the Red
attack to smithereens.

But then when the whistle blew
for the second half, somebody blundered. Everything went haywire. Dalhousie just couldn’t do anything
right. The Wanderers realizing the
possibility pushed Dal into a retreat
that resembled China’s recent backtrot.

The final score was 13-3 as you
may remember. But football at Dalhousie isn’t. over yet. The Dal team
isn’t licked yet and it won’t be until
that final whistle. So carry on Captain Cook. We'll win the City title
yet—or else.

While their illustrious classmates

jwere taking a lesson in the funda
mentals of football fromthe Wanderers,
the Dalhousie racqueteers were busy
taking Acadia’s batsmen over the
nets. They did so by a score of 11
matches to 2.

Winning the Maritime Intercollegiate
tennis crown is a regular procedure
at Dal. We expect it, but to Hughie
Little, ace freshmen, Bob Dimock,

Karl Garten, Babe Stewart, Irene
Pentz and the rest we offer our hearty
congratulations.

It was a job well done.

 

By the time this appears on
the Campus, interfaculty football will
be underway. We hope. For the
benefit of the Freshmen we say, interfaculty is THE sport at Dalhousie.
Just wait until you see the Doctors
and the Lawyers smearing one another
in the mud to-morrow at 12, and you'll
see why.

“When do we start playing ground
hockey?”’ That was the question we
heard a well known law student ask
the other day. Ground hockey
like the mumps, play a game and
then you want to play some more.
Last year boys and girls played together. The game became a regular
institution. Everybody had fun. Let's
have some more ground hockey, girls.

is

Congrats to-the D. A. A. C. for
acquiring the services of Vince Ferguson
as coach for the hockey team, Now
all we need is some hockey players.

Pardon, that last statement was a
bit on the broadside. Right now
Dalhousie has something like this.

Goal—Korky Koretsky.

Defence —., ‘

Forwards—Hugh Little, Ken Beer,
Jim Graham, Pooh DeWolfe, George
Corston.

Alas, Tiger Veniot is not back.
That'll be tough on the Acadia co-eds.

 

Just what the situation in basketball is is yet a mystery. Report has

‘it that Dal has a coach and if we’re

not mistaken (joke) he’s a good one.

Congratulations to the Tiger Cubs.
(We almost forgot this). The Cubs
put on an absitively wonderful exhibition last week and by the way, Coach
Rankine, what's the matter with.

‘MacAvity, he looked awful good to us,

Ce

a eer

 

 

DALHOUSIE GAZ EVIE...

Short End

Dalhousie Tigers dropped
decision to their old intra-city
the Wanderers at Studley last Saturday
afternoon. After a strong start which
showed a flash of last year's power
and gave promise of better things to

a. 18-8

rivals

come, the Bengals faltered in the
second half.

The Reds ground out a decisive
but hard earned victory.

The first half was all Dalhousie
and many dangerous thrusts at the

Wanderers line kept the fans on their
feet. Led by a hard fighting scrum
which outheeled and out pushed the
Red pack throughout, the boys went
al! out from the kick-off and forced
the play into Wanderer’s territory.
The Tiger backfield playing a much
improved brand of football
consistent gains and only a tight Red
defence prevented several tries.
Ross made two or three nice runs
but the try when it did come went
to the credit of the forwards. They
started a dribble well down the field
and rushed the ball over the line
where Don Storey fell on it to complete a very effective bit of work.
The kick for goal from a sharp angle
was inissed. For the rest of the half
the teams battled on more even terms
and the Reds almost broke into the
scoring column several times.

Dal began to weaken on defense
from the beginning of the second half
and the Wanderers, taking advantage
of every break, ran through for two
tries by Wall and Joudry both con
verted by Andy Duffus. Fighting
back hard to regain lest advantage

Dal’s attacks carried the ball to the
five yard stripe several times. K.
Smith stood out for Dal in this half
and made many nice gains with clever
punts but Dal’s scoring was over
for the afternoon. Late in the half
Andy Duffus lifted a long penalty
kick over the bar to complete the
scoring.

Intermediate

The Dalhousie Cubs turned back
the Wanderers second team to the
tune of 8-6 in a regular Intermediate
league game at Studley Saturday
afternoon. Working easily
smoothly the. Cub machine earned a
clean cut victory over the hard fighting
Reds. Bud MacDougall scored Dal’s
try and Gordon Hennigar kicked the
goal. He later scored the winning
points with a pretty penalty kick.
This win puts the Cubs in a tie for the
league leadership with the Acadia
Intermediates.

on
and

Some of you,lads and lassies should
try coming to the senior games a bit
early and get a look at our Cubs.
These boys play some fine rugby and
deserve ten times the support they
usually get. You'll repaid for
your trouble.

be

 

S

“GOOD
EARTH”
TODAY
AT

THE
CAPITOL

  

ICan Be Wrong! Senior Squad On |

made |

Henry |

 

 

fq

TENNIS TROUPE AGAIN WINS CROWN

 
    
   
      
 
           
    
  
 

 

BILL COOK

sive forwards and a fine captain.

——~ 0

 

Freshmen Officers

The enthusiastic class of ’'41

the coming year. The President
George Hagen of Halifax, H.
representative at the
Marjorie MacIntosh of
vice-president; Carley Sullivan
Stephen, N. B., the secretary;

Bedford

Headed by
bubbling over with the old “rah rah’”’
spirit,
itself for Dalhousie.

 

The S. C. M. announces a
study group on ‘The Life of
Jesus’’, first meeting to be
held at 10 Studley Avenue,
Sunday, October 17, at 8.30p. m

 

 

met
Tuesday and elected their officers for
is
GC As
Coronation.
is
of St.
and
Don MacKeigan of Halifax is treasurer.
a capable executive and

this class is expected to outdo

October ober: Loth, 198% 1937

 

RESULTS

RUGBY

Senior

13 Dal

Wanderers

Intermediate

8 Wanderers

TENNIS
11 Acadia 2

 

| Hoopsters Show |Passing Mourned
Great Promise

(Continued from Page 1)

He was indeed a man of deserved

Yes it’s true, basketball! is here again,

: distinction. He possessed a thoughtthough the rugby season is barenly fake satmaaet and) eathekt: iiacacter
half over. Manager Bill Scott is H ern Slee aE, ;

- : sa e had a keen insight and a devout
calling the first practice for Thursday oe art wife «an. ue full Gon

p. m, sharp in the
Everybody out—freshmen included.
Already many basket sinkers have
been out sharpening up their shooting
eyes and getting the feel of the ball,
Of last year’s senior team, Doug Crease,
Duff Stewart, Innes MacLeod, Bob
Goudey Hubbard will be among
the missing, while veterans Storey,
Cook, Ideson, Shainhouse, Baird and
Ed. Stewart are expected to be back
in harness again this year.

C. F. Steers,
Thursday evening.
He comes to Dalhousie with a record
all own as a basketball player

in the U. S. A., so that the Tigers |—— 7 =

are assured of an efficient coach. SPIRE SEO MEY EES TE CAT

evening at 7 Gym.

tribution to the world, and he spared
not himself in the office to which he
was appointed and fitted. His ora‘torical powers made him a preacher
and lecturer of rare distinction. His
majestic intellect rendered him a
tower of strength in debate and conHis winsome personality
admired and
remain

and
troversy.

caused him to be truly
deeply beloved. His life will
among our finer memories as a striking
example of a wholly acceptable offering
in the service of Godand man. ‘‘Peace
be to his dust, and to his memory everlasting honour.”’

The new coach, wi!

be in command on

his

 

 

 

 

Captain of this year’s Tigers, Bill se
4came to Dal with plenty of rugby lhe a ASes AS determined to start The latest Popular Music.
experience gained at Mount A. in his basketball off early and with a bang. The latest Victor Records.
native New Brunswick. Third year Either as interfaculty or house league All Popular Magazines.
Law student and playing his third will begin within a week or so, and All Musical Instruments.
year for Dal he is one of those aggres- Coach Steers expects to find plenty Radios in best makes.

of good material for his Senior and

: Lending Library of latest
Intermediate teams,

Fiction.
Framed views in Nova Scotia

by McAskill and Graham.

McDonald MusicCo.

40 SPRING GARDEN ROAD.

The Natty Beauty Salon

Featuring

BONAT METHOD OF

PERMANENT WAVING
25 Yearsa

STUDENTS’ BARBER

Patronized by Doctors and ©
Professors

Personality Coiffure

3 minute walk

from SHIRREFF HALL
LADIES HAIR BOBBING

EVENING APPOINTMENTS RAZOR HONING

324 MORRIS ST.
Phone B-6568

JACK MITCHELL, Prop.
41 SPRING GARDEN RD.

 

 

 

Required Reading

 

on Overcoats

College men are through with the old-time overcoat that weighed them down and tired them out.
Tip Top sensed this overcoat revolt and did something about it. To wit: the Three Button DoubleBreasted Semi-Form-Fitting Ulster, we show here.
It’s a neat example of the modern, gracefully
stream-lined overcoat with style in every stitch
—light in weight yet with no sacrifice of warmth.
So off with the old and on with the new! Come in
and feast your eyes on a marvellous array of Old
Country overcoatings. Let us hand-cut and tailor
this new kind of overcoat to your measurements,

$ » 4°

TOP TAILORS

LIMITED

TTU137

TIP

HAND-CUT AND TAILORED TO
YOUR PERSONAL MEASUREMENTS

422 BARRINGTON ST.

 

 

 
