 
 
 
 

  
 
  

   
  
 
   
  
  
 
 

oe = lines in the play were missed by an

Re
read :

=f

 
  
   
    
  
 
   
 
 
  
    
  
    
 
   
  
 
   
   
      

2 ' VOL. EXVIL

on the stage. Ha! Ha! Ha!

her last week, we take back. She apmre, peared to be the only person in the cast
__ who realized that they were playing to
- an audience and that it was not a dress
rehearsal.

a

 

  
    

=<ette

BY THE SEA”’

Basketball
Dal vs Grads

Thur. Feb. 24
Gym. 9 P. M.

 

HALIFAX, N. S., FEBRUARY, 19th, 1938

 

No. 17

 

 

 

Critic Sees Improvement In

Latest Glee Club Production

Cee eee

By the Gazette Drama Critic
Playing to a particularly raucous

audience last Friday, the Glee Club
again presented an evening of very mild

amusement. Again the occasion was
the Connolly Shield Competition which
fortunately or unfortunately seems to
be the raison d étré., of that little
talented organization this year.

It is an old and weak theatrical trick
to take a play and deliberately put
into it “local atmosphere It implies

that the cast feel neither sure of them
selves nor of the play they are using.
Perhaps that was the reason. A more
critical audience would immediately
sense that there was an Ethiopian

in the kindling. The idea worked out

beautifully, for a Dalhousie Glee Club

- show has never had a critical audience.

At every mention of the Professor of
Physic’s name a bellow hit the ceiling.
It was excruciatingly funny, Imagine
seeing Bennett or Johnstone imitiated

_ The result was that the few decent

 
 

too busy concentrating on the
Chat e Robert's boutiniere.
ating Foundling” acquited herself nobly. All the harsh things we said about

Vie

As the girl who brings her
troubles to the Registrars—Charlie
Roberts and Jack Woodbury—to be
straightened away, she is good when the
line are good and not so good when the
lines are not so good. The efforts of
Charlie Roberts and Jack Woodbury
were wasted, because of the fact that
no matter how badly they acted, (and
they were quite good), they were mainly effective because they were doing
imitations. The surprise performance
came from Bob Begg. Hindered by his
voice, his performance was effective
because of his naturalness. Stage consciousness is quite a weapon and Bob
seems to possess it.

To be quite frank, the education effort amazed us. It wasa three act play
by the name of “The Roof.” Mr.
John Galsworthy was responsible. To
suit the requirements of this competition it was cut to four scenes. That
in itself is condemnation enough. A
good three act play cannot be made
into a good one act. That isan axiom
as true as the fact that a one act play
cannot be stretched into three.

If one had been acquainted with the
effort it would have made sense. But
sitting listening and trying to follow
the action we felt that there was more
in it than met the eye. Following the
“Grand Hotel’ theme of showing
glimpses of people and their troubles
and their joys, it quite naturally ends
by throwing them together, the occasion
being danger to all. To a certain extent it may be called “episodic,” in
that the scenes are almost entities in
themselves, and that is where the producer defeats himself. Originally the
play was for that “status,” When it

- was condensed, the string that bound

(Continued on Page 4)

  

On behalf of the stu| dent body, the Gazette extends its deepest sympathy
to Robert L. Armstrong in
his recent bereavement.

     
    
     
   
     

  

Tim Buck Ousted

Montreal, Que., Feb 16, C. U. P.—
Yesterday evening the McGill students
council were forced to exclude the Com
munist speaker Tim Buck from the
McGill Union. Mr. Buck was to have
spoken as one of a number of speakers
in a political symposium which is
being held under the auspices of the
McGill Social Problems Club.

The reason given for banning Tim
Buck, to have spoken next Monday,
was that it would be in direct violation of the law, and that McGill students were above all law abiding. According to a law of the Provincial Legislature it is illegal for any person to
propogate Communisni in the Province
of Quebec. Any person so doing is
liable to three months to one year in
jail as is the owner or proprietor of
any hall permitting his building to be

used for such purpose and any building

used for communistic purposes or any
newspaper printing communistic ma
terial is liable to be closed for one year.

. Jt was felt that the students council:

was guardian of the property of the
students namely the McGill Union and
in this responsible position were in no
position to jeopardize the student
property.

Today the McGill Daily is carrying
a full account of the proceedings and
stating that it will print the speech
Mr. Buck would have delivered in the
McGill Union as soon as it is available.
The Daily feels that the stand of the
Council is entirely justified in view of
the fact that it would have been entirely illegal to have opened the doors
of the McGill Union to Mr. Buck.
but at the same time the Daily feels
that the Provincial Government is preventing the university from carrying
on the functions of a university—that
is, it is forbidding people interested
in hearing both sides of a question from
hearing the case against Fascism which
was so ably presented last week by the
Fascist leader Adrien Arcand.

ee 
Lawyers-Meds Tie

Last Monday night saw an enthusiastic crowd of students packed in the
limited space of the Munro Room to
hear the Doctors attempt to substantiate their claim to superiority over
Lawyers as statesmen. Irving Rubins
led the attack for the medicos, and was
immediately answered by Laurie
O’Brien, the leader of the legal squad.

Roy Gold then took up the torch for
the Doctors, and in a flood of oratory,
excelled only by that of his colleague,
proceeded to confuse the issue still
further. Harry Housser, well-known
Law student, was the second speaker
for the Lawyers. He said as nasty
things about the medical profession
as the previous speaker had said about
the legal profession.

Mr. O’Brien then summed up his
points in a five minute rebuttal, reading most of it from some periodical.
Mr. Rubins then did the same for his
side. Jim Milner acted as an impartial
chairman. The final voting, in which
the whole audience took part split
the decision, there being nine votes for
the affirmative and nine for the negative. On the whole a good time was
had by all.

   

Report by the Physical Director
and the Chairman of the Senate
Gymnasium Committee to the
Dalhousie Students Council, February 13, 1938.

The Dalhousie Gymnasium, with its
various activities—athletic, dramatic,
debating, social, etc—is under the
supervision of the Physical Director,
Mr. Sven Korning, who is assisted by
two Advisory Committees, appointed
by the Senate and the Students’
Council, and known as the “Senate
Gymnasium Committee,” and the “Students’ Gymnasium Committee.”

Senate Gymnasium Committee.
The Senate Gymnasium Committee
comprises Professors Bell, Coffin, Maxwell, Mercer, Theakston, Walmsley,
Dr. Clyde Holland, and the Physical
Director, Mr, Sven Korning, with
Prof. C. H. Mercer as Chairman. It
meets about once a month, although
this session its meetings have been
more frequent than usually, averaging
one every two or three weeks.

Student Gymnasium Committee.
The Student Gymnasium Committee
met a few times at the beginning of
the session, but is apparently now a defunct body and can be left out of the
picture entirely. It was found impossible to choose an hour suitable to
all its members and it ceased to meet.
Hence, when, as in the present misunderstanding, the Senate Gymnasium
Committee wishes to obtain the advice
of the Students, the only recourse is
directly to the Students’ Council, for
which privilege Mr. Korning and |
wish to express our gratitude, as we
know you have assembled here this
afternoon for other business.

“Property Room,’’ Glee Club.
Perhaps our most perplexing problem
has been to understand the uses to
which the room off the stage, known as
the Glee Club Property Room, is put
by students, some of whom do not
belong to the Glee Club Executive or
even take part in their productions.
We regret very much that there is no
room in the gymnasium which the
students can use for social purposes.
But this room is granted to the Glee
Club as a store room for their belongings and we are very much puzzled
to know what connection there can be
between the activities to which it is
put, e. g. card-playing, and glee club
stage eftects. From time to time the
D. A. A. C. has used one of the rooms
in the gymnasium, and we should have
been greatly surprised to discover their
Executive seated in the kitchen over a
game of cards.

January 20th, 1938. We were some
what astonished to firid this Property
Room occupied at 12.15 a. m., on above
date as the badminton players were
leaving the building after the McCurdy
Cup match on that evening. As the
three (or four) students showed no intention of vacating the premises at this
late (or rather early) hour, we presume
that they are prepared, if occasion
arises, to spend the night there. We
would point out to the Glee Club Exexutive that the front door of the gymnasium is always double-locked when
the Janitor or other person in charge
leaves the building and that the Property Room is not intended to be used
as an hotel for the night.

February 9th, 1938. Why were
the five students so anxious to remain
in the G. C. Property Room at 10.30
p. m., on the evening of Wednesday,
Feb. 9- The Janitor asked them

Chairman Reports To Council

three times to retire, which was followed by a similar request by Mr. Korning, the Physical Director in charge of
the building. The Glee Club had made
a previous application to Mr. Korning
for the use of the stage after the Matzenauer concert, which was refused,
and the record of the refusal is in Mr.
Korning’s office. At 10 or 10.15 p. m.
on Wednesday evening last, after the
concert, a further application was made
to Mr. Korning for the use of the stage
for a rehearsal, which was also refused.
So a small party—we believe there were
three men and two women—decided to
remain, aftr having been told by Mr.
Korning that the door would be locked
on them and they could not get out.
(What was Mr. Korning to do—phone
for the police to come and eject them?
Why were students in the Property
Room at that hour, who did not even
belong to the Executive of the Glee
Club? Again we ask, is this room a
property room or a lounge? If this
seems a frivolous question, we would
ask the Glee Club to define clearly the
uses for which they require the room
(and if card-playing is one of those uses
let them say so.)

Close the Property Room. It was
my intention at the next meeting of
the Senate Gymnasium Committee to
propose that the key of the so-called
Property Room be left with the Physical
Director (or the Janitor), who would
let the Glee Club Executive in and out
as the exigencies of the case require.
Perhaps on the afternoon of a show the
room might be left open. Complaints
have been received from outside the
college about students—women and
men—spending much of their free time
in the Glee Club Property Room.

(More next week)

 

 

—

D.A.A.C. Hanaaet

The D. A. A. C. are at last bringing
to Dalhousie an important function
that should rank with the highest of
college functions. We refer to the
Letter Banquet which will be held at
the Halifax Hotel on March Tth at
seven o’clock in the evening. This
will be under the auspices of the Dalhousie Alumni Association and is a
gesture of their appreciation to all
present day Gold and Black athletes.

The guests will include all male stuthe various athletic teams,
and managers and coaches will be invited to attend as well. Others present will be prominent Dalhousie Alumni and a number of University officials. All in all, it should prove to
be a very large gathering.

dents on

Before the banquet, the annual
D. A. A. C. meeting will be held in the
same hotel at 6 o'clock. All members
of the D. A. A. C. are urged by the officials to attend this, and those present
at the meeting who have not invitations to the dinner may purchase a
ticket for the sum of $1.00, as may any
student or alumnus who desires to do
so.

The D. A. A. C. intends to present
honorary Gold D’s to Mr. James McG.
Stewart, chairman of the Board of
Governors, and to Major Logan, classics professor, for the great interest
they have taken in Dalhousie athletics. In addition, at the Banquet
there will be a general sing-song of Dal
songs and it is hoped that moving pictures will be shown.

eee

Pd

%e

Bearcats Van

IGERS DEFEAT BEARGATS IN PLAYOFF TUSSLE

quished In First

Game Of Hockey Playdowns

Medical Sbcel
Guards Interests

AN EDITORIAL

The old dictum that ‘‘As Medicine goes, so goes Dalhousie’’ was
lived up to at last night’s special
Students’ Council meeting. Obviously nervous of a medical split
in the Council early
next month, a powerful one-man
faction bitterly contested the proposed nomination of George Murphy, third year medical student,
for the presidency of next year’s
Council. (At this point we wish
to make clear that by ‘‘a one-man
faction’’ we do not refer to President Tag Day, who conducted the
meeting with utmost impartiality). With Gordon ‘“‘Bud’’ MacKenzie, also of third year medicine,
nominated for the position at
last Sunday’s meeting, apparently
it was deemed advisable by our
medical representatives to oppose
the nomination of Mr. Murphy.
It is easily seen that two men from
THE faculty would disrupt the
best laid plans of the political
machine which for so long has
controlled campus governments.

The trouble seeps back to Sunday’s Council meeting. At that
time when George Murphy’s name
was proposed it was stated by a
councillor that he would not run
for the position, and the matter
was dropped. Further investigation by the Gazette revealed that
Mr. Murphy had not been approached, though he was quite
willing to offer. Discontent among
councillors occasioned a meeting
last night at which Mr. Murphy’s
name was brought up again and
dropped after heated discussion.
Observers believe that if the misthe previous
meeting had not occurred, the
name of George Murphy would
have been on the presidential
ballot. :

Unfortunate as this occurrence
may seem, it is the result of a
constitution which allows a select
group of individuals with their
interests at heart to strike
out from consideration any names
which oppose personal desires.
This incident brings to light the
apparent inadequacies of our present nominating system. Campus
democracy should not be a mere
term.

elections

understanding at

own

i — if een hha

Name Candidates

The D. A. A. C. has announced its
nominations for next year’s slate of officers. Those put up for President are
Tom Sheehan and Byron Hatfield,
while the Vice-Presidency will be contested by Charlie Roberts and George
Hagen. Walter Lawson and Don MacKenzie will battle it our for the position of Secretary.

From the Students’ Council comes
word that the Presidential nominees
are Bud MacKenzie and Peter Nicholson. The post of Vice-President of
this august body will be filled by either
Dick Murphy or George Corston.
Doug MacKean was appointed representative for the Class of 1942.

Dalhousie Tigers Hockey Team showed an amazing reversal of form against
Truro Bearcats on Tuesday night and
handed the Bearcats a 6-3 trimming.
For the first time this season the Tigers
clicked in the offensive and defensive
departments of the game. Their forwards skated hard all night and broke
up many Truro attacks by sheer speed
as well as showing great polish around
the nets. On the other hand the Macdonald-Beer defence was like a stone

wall and handed out many hearty
thumps. The only man they could
not control was Burgess, Truro’s

tricky left winger who accounted for
all the Truro goals.

The rival goalies both had to be good
to kick out the many sizzling drives
hurled at them from all angles.

Both teams iked the very fast ice and
kept up a blistering pace throughout.
After thirteen minutes of play Buckley
who once more stole the show with his
dazzling play, went through alone to
open the scoring. Fifteen seconds
later Corston and Dewolfe teamed up
to make the score 2-0

The Tigers went further out in front
soon after the second period began
when Collins scored on a pass from
Mont. At the half-way mark, Burgess
notched the first of his three scores on a
fast wing shot. The Collegians came
right back to make it 5-1 on goals by
Conn from Mont and Buckley unassisted, before Truro again counted,
Burgess scoring on Biswanger’s pass.

Early in the third period Burgess
again scored to reduce Dal’s margin
to two points and then the Truro gang
slowed up. There was no more scoring
until four minutes from the end when
Buckley went through once more to
beat Mumford for his third marker of
the game. After that Koretsky proved
his worth, kicking out many hard drives
and robbed Burgess, Beswanger, and
Taylor of sure goals with lovely saves.

Settle Problem

At a meeting of the Medical Faculty
last Friday night the student's views
were aired to the gathering and the following decisions were reached,
gards the third year—

As re
(1) The examination in Psychiatry
to the third year will be deferred until
next year.

2) The practical examination in
Laboratory Diagnosis will take place
before the close of the term.

(3) Preventive Medicine will be
given on Friday. April 15th.

(4) The practical examination in
Pathology will, as usual, take place
before the end of the term,

(6) The orals in Hygiene and Pathology will be held April
18th and 28th.

The changes in the Fourth year programme are as follows—

between

(1, Medical Jurisprudence and Toxicology may be written before the time
of the regular examinations.

(2) There is no change in thetime
of writing Psychiatry.

This announcement will undoubtedly
be greeted with great approval by Dalhousie Medical Students and there is
no doubt whatsoever that they deeply
appreciate the friendly attitude taken
toward their problem by the Medical
Faculty.

 

 

 

 
  
   

Founded.1869. “The Oldest College Paper in America”,

 

GAZETTE STAFF.

Editors-in-Chief.

     
  
  
  
   
    
  
 
   
   
  

ec A. B, MACKENZIE. E. F, MERCHANT.
ce Baste. B-0254,
.ii > . Associates.
ese T. Babbitt Parlee, B. A. Walter Murphy. Roland Hurst.
aed’, Leonard Kitz. John F. Finlay, B. A. Peggy Merkel.
Byron Hatfield Lloyd Dalton Barbara Murray
James Curry, M. A.
sNews Editor. Sports Editor.
RICHARD MURPHY. JOHN DICKEY, B. A.
; B-2427, B-5545.*
Asst. News Editor Business Manager. Proof Editor

eee MARJORIE McLEAN. R.L. ARMSTRONG, B. A. MALCOLM MacLEOD.
io. .* J B-5700.

 

 

THE STUDENTS’ EMPLOYMENT BUREAU.

Now that the end of another college year is approaching the
thouzhts of all prospective graduates are turning seriously to their
future. To this end, and to aid those who have no immediate
plans, the Stwdents’Employment Bureau was established last year

on this Campus. This body has gone to great trouble in placing
be . men with various concerns throughout Canada, and for the fine
ve work done and the great strides taken in a single year are they
te worthy of the highest commendation. ;

ya This bureau is of the greatest value and assistance to all stu
dents who are leaving college with no immediate prospects.
Tarowzh its various connections, it is able to place men in positions
suited to their educational qualifications, positions which are open
‘to advancement. Great good-will has been necessarily established
and it is here that the gradisates themselves can be of inestimable
valde to their Alma Mater and raise Dalhousie in the eyes of the
world. You will be judged by the quality of the work you perform
and at the same time your superiors will be gaining an estimate of
3 this University. Through your own qualifications will all future
-- Dalhousians be judged and by your own success will be measured
the opportunities of those who graduate in the years to come. |
| Loyalty, first of all to your own college, is an ancient tradition
upheld for countless years by many students. Dalhousie degrees
~ are looked on with favour by all business men, but so are those of
‘many other Universities and accordingly it is difficult to fill a posi___ tion by the sole reason of your parchment. Those students who
have been materially aided by the Employment Bureau can show
their gratitude and loyalty to Dalhousie by informing those in
charge of the organization of any vacancies in their business.
_-‘Their efforts would be appreciated particularly when they find it
necessary to leave their own position, if they would only inform
ose in charge and let another Dalhousie man fill the post. This
slight gesture would enormously lighten the load of the Bureau and
- inthis manner would they be able to keep in touch with their organizations. The simplest way to show your gratitude isto ensure
the fact that a Dalhousie graduate will get a job.

ORDERS ARE ORDERS.

~~. Students at Dalhousie, in common with students in other universities, have always had their own minor troubles on the campus.

_ And these troubles have usually culminated in a satisfactory man
ner. There is nothing that draws a student body closer together

than a disagreement with faculty authority. Delta Gamma is a

recent proof of that.

* So far this year most of our campus differences have been
settled successfully. The most recent disagreement between students and University authority is the aftair last week between the
Physical Director and members of the Players’ Guild. Mr. Korning carried the matter to the Senate Gymnasium Committee which
promptly drafted a letter warning the chief offender in the incident
that a further occurrence by him of refusal to recognize the Physical
Director’s authority would result in a temporary suspension from
the gymnasium. Last Sunday the incident was aired before a
meeting of the Students’ Council and a committee from the Council

Pe was appointed to sit with the Senate Gymnasium Committee and

| the Students Gymnasium Committee to inquire into that matter
- and any disagreements in the future concerning the gymnasium.

| That one incident appears to be closed asfd as the Senate

Gymnasium Committee is concerned. But it has left dissatisfaction among many students toward the Physical Director. We
are not supporting either side, but we would like to point out that
obviously Mr. Korning is merely carrying out orders in his policies
in the gymnasium. We see fallacies in these policies, yet we be
___ lieve the fallacies are not wholly Mr. Korning’s. And then again,

_ if the students are not satisfied with the way the gymnasium is

being run there are always Courts of Appeal in both the Student

Gymnasium Committee and the Senate Gymnasium Committee.

EXCHANGE SCHOLARSHIPS

_ Probably the most important result of the recent National
_ Conference of Canadian University Students was the idea of unity
which it ingrained in the minds of delegates from coast to coast.
All Canadians realize the danger of sectionalism in this so-sparsely
LA populated Dominion. The National Conference helped to su bmerge
__ it in.a spirit of “seeing the other fellow’s side of the problem.”
| ee On a smaller scale, but with greater thoroughness, the Nationa]
Federation of Canadian University Students has been endeavouring to foster by the exchanging of students from one university to
another, the same idea for the past eight years. A condition attached to an exchange scholarship is that the student must return
__ to his original university to complete his course. In this way he or
she is enabled to pass on to fellow-students the theories and ideas
of other students in other sections of the Dominion. Under the
plan the universities are divided into four groups—the University
of British Columbia, the universities of the Prairie Provinces the
universities of Ontario and Quebec and the universities of the
_ Maritimes. By ruling that a student cannot exchange within a
group, the N. F.C. U.S. furthers the unity plan.
The Federation's representative on this campus is Mr. Henry

a we lead
F

 

: B. Ross and prospective candidates can obtain full details from
meas him. Scholarships will not necessarily be awarded to candidates

__with the highest examination marks,

but rather, to candid Wi
the highest “all round” be Pennidates with

qualifications.

 

. =

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

February, 18th, 1988

 

Fantasy - - Fancy
and Fact

Man Marries Woman

“I do,” said 59-year-old Defense
Minister Blomberg of Germany. ‘‘I
do” murmured 28-year-old Elli Gruhn,
his blonde secretary. Thus like thousands of other couples the pair entered
wedlock. But unlike thousands of
other unions Adolf Hitler was present
at the ceremony. To the BlombergGruhn nuptial his presence had great
significance. It meant that the head
of the German state was condoning a
marriage that would have been impossible for any other military ofticer
in the country.

**In this Corner we have the Army”’

Says factual reliable Time Magazine
‘Not many foreigners realize that when
a Nazi youth is called up for military
service the Army sergeants at whose
mercy he finds himself commonly tells
him to Forget everything the Party
taught you and remember that you are
a son of a swine like the rest of the raw
recruits.”’

Before a German officer can marry
he must obtain the consent-of the War
Office. The social and financial background of the financeé are then examined. In Miss Gruhn’s case her mother
was a masseuse, her father a carpenter.
But her prospective husband was the
head of the War Office itself.

‘And in this Corner we have the
Party.

Headed by the son of Mr. Hitler who
held a petty position in the Austrian
Civil Service, which is composed, toa
large extent, of sons of similar fathers,
the party has long looked askance at
the superior attitude of the ranking
Army officers.

Action

Nineteen generals demanded the
resignation of Blomberg who refused
to obey the rules he was supposed to
enforce. But the issue had now passed
beyond the relatively trivial matter
of a follower of Ponce de Leon spousing
a young blonde. Like an angry housewife who starts to protest the freshness
of the eggs and branches out to question many other items of provender the
Army heads doubtlessly attacked other

ernment policy. They dislike the
snubbing of powerful Great Britain;
they view with extreme distaste the attempt to displace Christianity with
Nazi doctrines of neopaganism; and
fearing a repetition of the 1915 turnabout they oppose the present tie up
with Italy.

Results

The conservative stately Foreign
Minister von Neurath was replaced by
the bumptious and bold von Ribbentrop. Von Papen and the minister
in Italy were recalled for conference
which was likely a discussion of the
course of future strategy in troubled
Central Europe.

matters.
It has long been known the Army
Corps holds many objections to goy
Thirty-five leading officers were retired or shifted. Hitler himself took
over control of the War Office.

The Winner?

Nobody appears to know which
side came off better. Blomberg is out
but the left wing of the Nazi party appears to be in stronger control of external policy. But as Newsweek observes, ‘‘The Army had actually called
a showdown and might do it again
since the only penalty was a long overdue reorganization no more drastic than
Hore Belisha's current rejuvenation of
the British Army.”

The unrest caused by these series cf
events was reflected in the pertinent
fact that the trial of Rev. Martin
Niemoeller, Lutheran pastor charged
with criticism of the government religious programme which was scheduled for open hearing, has been changed
to secret trial.

Back Home

In democratic countries where we
lack 96% vote to one party we somehow also omit the frequent violent
purges, overnight executive changes
of the high strung dictator states,

 

Obiter

According to great authorities on the
future, such as H. G. Wells, and other
prophets of the modern age, we have
three years to go before the powers cry
havoc. It has occurred to me that we
should be putting our houses in order
for that great occasion. We should be
making peace with our fellow man.
Three years is not a long time, and
when it’s over, gosh, but won’t the fellows be sorry for the way they have
treated Sven? They will look back
then and see that the poor fellow was
doing what he was told, and that they
chased the wrong dog. Not that Mr.
Korning is a dog. I speak figuratively.
Even though faculty powers appear to
think he’sa Great Dane. I know some
people of intelligence who can’t imagine
a communist who doesn’t believe in

anarchy. But there is the occasional
communist who believes in the constitutional method of approach. But

“Anti-communist’’ doesn’t know it,
nor does his step-brother ‘‘Anti-fascist."’ Of course they are not communists, so perhaps it is expecting too
much,

The Freedom of the Press

There are, I think, three reasons for
suppression of the public press. The
first is that the press has been misbehaving. The press does misbehave, as
you know. Look at the press not ten
leagues from where you stand. (To
use a rather hackneyed expression.)
This state of affairs is very unfortunate, but the correction lies in the press
itself. Then a second one is that someone doesn’t want somebody to know
about something. This is a most disgraceful and invalid reason. Thirdly
and most common, the censor had a
big night last night with attendant
consequences. Then, of course, you
can always fire the censor. But ask
him where he got the stuff first. We
have a censored press in Canada, in
Alberta (where they take their politics
lightly), Of course, Mr. Aberhart is
probably not a university man. (I
hope). In other places too, well
known, itissuppressed. Hitleris nota
university man noris Benito. But the
local press is run by university men.
(I hope not), If it is censored it will
come under reason number one. The
Gazette should be on the look-out. It
doesn't take much to incite these locals into quite a frenzy, Then what is
meant for campus consumption is in
danger of receiving red ink and two
inch print. Such radical treatment is
not good for dear old Dal. If pop and
mom get to thinking that sonny is
drinking such awful stuff and fighting
with his professors all the time then
sonny will be sent to the nearest monastery, Think of that. Would you
like to be sent to a nice cold monastery?
Do you think next year’s freshman class
would? Awful, isn't it?

Gleeful Glee Club.

The show was very, very good last
week, didn’t you think? Or did you?
Such consummate acting has rarely
been seen on the stage, here or anywhere else. For which anywhere else
is probably thankful. But the first
play wasn’t really bad. The touches
of local colour, judiciously inserted bya
discriminating playwright, made it
quite acceptable. Will ‘‘C. L.” like
it particularly, because ofthat, I wonder?

—_—————( -—--—.

Correction

The Gazette wishes to correct an
error in the heading of Colwell
Brothers Ltd., advertisement in the
February 11th issue.

The streamline hat advertised
was the “‘Kensington’”’ not Kingston.

 

 

25 Yearsa

STUDENTS’ BARBER

Patronized by Doctors and
Professors

LADIES HAIR BOBBING
RAZOR HONING

JACK MITCHELL, Prop.
41 SPRING GARDEN RD.

 
 

 

“As long as my money and her Sweet Caps hold out!”

SWEET CAPORAL CIGARETTES ah

“The purest form in which tobacco can be smoked.” \}

When You Need
DRUGS

“How long is your wife going to stay down South ?”

MEDICINES

 

 

    
  

 

PRESCRIPTIONS

or any other Drug Store Merchandise

You get better

at

BEFORE BUYING

and VALUE

SERVICE

KINLEY’S DRUG STORES

 

 

 
 

 

LUGGAGE or LEATHER GOODS
OF ANY KIND SEE

AELLYS LTD.

118 GRANVILLE ST.

CHALLENGER
WATCH TIME

Rapidly becoming Canada’s
slogan when referring to
watches, these three words

represent unceasing vigil by
Birks, lest quality or sound
value deviate the least bit
from Birks high standard.

Are you wearing a Challenger?

_——

Henry Birks & Sons

Limited
Diamond Merchants
Halifax

 

EATON’S

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

TO-DAY
awh
BUCCANEER”

CAPITOL

 

 

 

Men’s ““Renown’’

FUR FELT HATS

 

*T. EA

T

Outstanding Value,
Each

3.50

“¢ s
Renown’’—A line of hats

that’s exceptionally popular
with Halifax Men .... Men
and young men can always
find styles to suit them in
this moderately priced range.
They’re of good quality fur
felts in greys and browns
and new snap and welt brim

models.

EATON’S Men's Hai

ment.

Depari
Main Floor.

QN.C

iM LIMITED

 

 

 

 

 
ne " a
e- ‘i : eae
epee: ate Al
ano a. C Sil
+ ve a Ta a2
vat Fe : =
3 : + sb yt
t. r hy
7 in.
i :
iy : = Ne
y
si hd *

te ee ;

HM A ad.
_ eS, . A 4
nae E : s,
é Ta :
Bay as 7 :
a ag ; se

ae. Te ors,

  
  
  
   
   
  
   
  
   
 
   
   
    
  
  
   
   
  
  
 
 
   
  
    
  
  
 
  
 
  
   
  
  
  
  
   
 
 
  
  
  
   
  
  
   
 
 
  
   
   
  
   
   
  
 
   
 
  
   
   
   
   
 
 
  
 
 
 
   
   

3 0 the: ate ae
_ Dalhousie Gazette,
a usie University, f
x, N.S ; ‘

alho

se

IN FRANK, OPEN LETTER.”

ea

ou *
mee
ees

ae

\

still be without them?”

Mr. I. Roy Gold.

to look after its financial welfare.

| ." ~ the same,

above seems to be lacking.
-same leaders is ‘‘Why advertising fees
ue have not been paid into the student
ry?” All advertising fees color the 1936-37 Year Book, have

y Rankin, are available for in
of the student body. The amount of
- money due the Council, from space in
the Year Book is ONE HUNDRED
"AND SEVENTY-FIVE DOLLARS
" ($175.00). —ONE HUNDRED AND
~ TWENTY-NINE DOLLARS ($129.00)
ry of which is owed by student organiza‘ tions and by prominent campus leaders both past and present. Up until
the time of the council meeting on

Sunday, Feb. 13th, this fact was not
i. made known to the council in general,
_ This despite the fact that certain memes. bers of that august body, who have to
do with the paying of such bills have
_~been approached continuously since
October to pay the same. Only when
asked directly’ whether or not they
were approached as to paying their bill
did they admit their own lack of cooperation. I have guaranteed the
council to collect the remaining accounts, by the next council meeting,
On their promise to lend support in
_ ‘their respective organizations. I take
this opportunity of asking every person
in the University, who has anything
to do with paying of the said accounts,
to lend his or her support in this mat
—

The third question is supplied not
by ex-leaders but rather from certain
_ soap-box politicians on the campus, who
unless they change their present poli
tical policies, will be swaniped in their
- own suds. ‘Why is it that students
- who signed up for Year Books didn’t
’ receive their copies?” The answer
5 to this is quite simple. Quoting Mr.
Gold the book was “‘available for stuee dent sale on April 8th of last year.”
___ In addition to this I would like to say
that on April 8th signs were posted to
= the effect that the Year Books were on
sale at the Gymnasium, or procurable
_ from any member of the staff. Therefore, any person or persons who signed
a year book and did not receive it
‘into one of the following two clas
) Those who were not in the Uniy at the time of, or since, the

2 excuse. )
Those who, when the book was
shed, would not take the trouble

go to the Gymnasium in order to

Rebuts Letter

7 As a
ets, Business Manager of the 1937
Year Book I would like to reply, in
om oderation, to the letter appearing in
the Jan. 29th edition of the Dalhousie
Gazette, under the caption ‘“DISSATISFIED, EX LEADERS AIR VIEWS

__ The first question in connection with
_ the Year Book, arising out of the letter,
is why “students who had willingly
_ paid for their copies in advance shoula
a It has been
brought to my attention that one student who had paid for a Year Book haa
a not received the same. On _ looking
farther into the situation 1 found that
the said student is a fellow interne of
the DISSATISFIED EX-LEADER—
the editor of the “FOND REMEM__BRANCE OF OUR LITTLE COL_ LEGE FOR YEARS TO COME”—

- On assuming the positions of editor
and business manager of the 1986-37
Year Book, it was understood that Mr.
- Gold was to be the editor while I was
As
regards the circulaticn beth editcr ana
‘business manager were to work together with the members of the staff ana
the members of the Students’ Council
With this idea of co-operation in view,
receipt books were given to every member of the staff and council in order that.
they would be able to receive money
for Year Books, and give a receipt for
In other words a word in
‘the right direction would have produced
__—_—_— greater results than two columns in the
_  Gazette—co-operation in this case cited

The second question asked by the

vic ‘into the Students’ Council, | —— |

r the same, signed by Mr}

ion at any time by any member

2 *

 

| Book Business Manager
of Gold and Roy

Feb, 14, oe Lawson Feted At

Gym Party

  
  
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
   
   

week in the Big Gym.

attending Dalhousie University to pur
with it).

Mr. Lawson looked charming and refreshing in his gay costume of chocolate-brown suit, egg-speckled vest,
gravy studded tie, and squeaking shoes.
Some four hundred guests were in attendance along with some people who
just happened to be there. (NOTE—
this piece is to inform them just what
all the racket was about.)

Mr. Lawson is known on the campus
as one of the Iccal Saint John boys who
made and then stayed good. Immediately following the party Mr. Lawson
wes interviewed by the Gazelie’s inquiring—or perspiring—reporter as to
what he thought of the tesimonial
demonstration. He was heard to say
YAW, FFDDLESTICKS....<... 3s Sea
9 Bite Mists , (deleted, deleted and deijeted
for three paragraphs). ‘There was
four hundred of them there and I didn't
even get a lollypop. What kind of a
joint is this?” He agreed with the re
counted on a birthday, but the present.”

highlight of the evening. He reviewed the tremendous changes through
which the world had passed since his
birth, and closed his remarks (hearty
cheers from the crowd), by saying
that in his opinion “everything is Oh,
Kay and this year is my first step up
the stairs to fame,” A disastrous ending terminated the evening when, on
his way home, Mr. Lawson tripped
over his beard and fell three flights of
‘Stairs. He assured evervone that he
was not hurt as he wasa Kay-ve Man.”

 

 

procure their book, but rather chose
to join the long ranks of Dalhousie men
and women, who like themselves would
father see authority left ‘holding the
bag” instead of lifting a helping hand
for the student welfare.

My final answer concerns the statement, “Sure ‘tis much easier to point
to last year’s financial failure, IGNORANT of its cause,”’ by our ex-leadefs
Messrs. I. Roy Gold and Wallace M.
Roy. I ask the question of the students of Dalhousie: How many know
that the combined deficit of the 193536, 36-37 Year Books, of which I had
the honor of being Business Manager,
was over TWO HUNDRED DOLLARS ($200.00) LESS THAN the
DEFICIT of ONE edition of previous
Year Books at Dalhousie? This represents a SAVING of some SIX HUNDRED TOSEVEN HUNDRED DOCLLARS PER YEAR. Incase more students than the editor of last year's year
book, are ignorant as to why only 150
Year books were sold, apart from the
reasons given above, I offer this excuse.
[f a book of editorial equality to other
years had been published then no matter how poor the circulation campaign
had been, the financial record would
have heen greatly improved by virtue
of increased sales,

I suggest to our ex-leaders that more
financial failures of this type would
greatly benefit our student organizations.

This letter will in all probability
cause a fluctuation in the “Gold Standard,’’ or any other standards left in
Dalhousie. If such is the case it is my
firm hope that said standards be raised
by concise constructive criticism in
lieu of a destructive windsterm.

In closing I wish to thank the editors
for kindly alloting to me the space for
this letter. Also I would like to urge
them to initiate a strong campaign on
behalf of the 1988 Year Book. Thanking you in advance for the space needed
inrebuttals, I remain,

Yours very truly,

; Henry C. Reardon,

Business Manager 35-36, 86-37 Year
| Books.

Ly ‘
.
if ee
Seek
Cy] a Sts ¥ » | ‘ I 4
a ' - , 1 |
~~ y fe 7 = ‘2 ty ei ; me » .
a. ear. te i 4 Pike 5 trae . A
RSE Ee EN ck ae =
es ge art 6 i am? 3 iy
weer) ot” ™ An aor ee ee a ee oS
f ke 4 Oay a a a ee en ee
a ly 4 A i i 2 , al I ry aad
tie a rhe et eS a eee el ht. er

 

A charming and delightful little
party was held on Friday night of last
Host for the
evening was Mr. W. R. ‘‘Butch”’ Lawson, prominent and distinguished student from Saint John, N. B., who is

sue his course in Engineering (the bets
are five to one that he will catch up

porter that “it was not the past that

A speech by Mr. Lawson was the

- DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

 
  
    
    
   
  
   

Final Report On
- Commission

The Editors,
Dear Sirs:— i

week, and for that reason | am only

what took place. The most important
thing that hs taken place which called
for a special session was the rude and
unjustifiable way in which some male
‘and female students were purposely
locked in the Gym. I| think that the
authorities need a new watch.

The various committees got
gether during the week and held this
final meeting in the Arts Building cn
Monday night. The first question put
before the entire group for censiaeration was put by a member of Committee Ten. The question was ‘‘Mr.
Chairman, why the special meeting of
Committee Eleven in the Gym last
Thursday?”

Prof. Mercer answered, ‘That meeting was called to confer with ofiicials
of the D. A. A. C. and also to consider
the schedule cf the Glee Club for the
remainder of the

“But,’’ cried some one, “‘l thought
it was to look after one of the authorities. You know that half-past ten
racket.”

“Don't be a fool, you fool,”’ spoke up
Maxwell. ““‘That was only taken up
after the regular business.”

“That deliberate insubordination, treating it like that,’’ said a
member of committee Ten.

“We should put kim out of the Gym"
said the Chairman, ‘‘you know, just to
show that smart alec who is the fellow

to
season.”

Was

wearing the pants.”
“Whom you blabbed a
member of the Blank committee stupi
do mean’’
fied, ‘“‘the instructor?”

“Not logicai,”’ said Herbie, “because
he must do what he is told to do and he
is from the Continent. You know as
well as 1 do what system of Governinent prevails over there.”

“Well, we only wrote the student a
etter and did not take his privileges
away from him..” “But only because it was past your dinner tinie”’
interjected Anti-Communist.

‘You say that the meeting was callea
to plan the Clee Club’s programme for
the rest of the seasca,’’ said a Dramatic
Critic. ‘That seems absurd because

what they do will not take much plan
ning, Or at least it seems that way.”

“Oh, but they have been revivec
langhed the Cynic. ‘‘Dia you-nct see
the last plav?”’

By this time every one was petting
tired and was anxious’ to go home.
‘Is there anything else wrong arounc
here to to?” wearily
groaned the Chairman.

“What about the C. 0, T, C.’
up a firey member, “‘Why only tonight
the few measley members were running
around here like lest children.”’

“But they have a leader,”
the Chairman.

“Ves, | know, but no orders were
posted for the parade. And besides
the Bulletin said that the time had been
changed,’ came back an ardent devotee
ofthe C.O0'L.C,

“Well, I would like
pays any attention to that reg”’
a Law Prof. “It is becoming a nuisance, public at that.”

“Tt isin your jurisdicticn,’’ answered
the Chairman, ‘‘we do not have to look
after that.”

‘Well for that matter the C. CG. T, €.
isalso out of our field. It isa Government institution and the college has
nothing to do with it”’ said the Chairman. ‘‘And I believe that would also
explain the reason for it being handled
so loasely.”’

By this time it became apparent
to all interésted members that there
was too much work for one Comimission to do. And the opinion of many
was to adjourn the whole thing.

“But what have we accomplished’
asked a member of committee Ten.

“Nothing,” answered a member of
the Blank Committee.

Nevertheless, I do not think that is
so. We have the whole Commission
goingeon recerd as being very glad to
see that there is going to be a year
book. Also to see that we are going
to have a bigger and better Clee Club,
as Doc Roy is taking over the reins for
Munro Day. This I think should
please every student. And as far as
the Gym trouble is concerned that is
taken careof. I do not think that such
a case of false imprisonment will happen again. The reason for that is
that no parents want to hear of their
littles being locked in the Gym with

be attended

" pipea

replied

to know who

said

The Commission had a very- busy

able to give you, Sirs, a brief resumé of

    
 
  
  
  
 
 
   
   
 
 
   
 
 
  
   
  
  
  
   
    
    
  

valued paper.

 

Co-eds Entertain

Last Saturday evening the much
talked of Shirrefi Hall Open House
took place. It started at nine and
there was both dancing and bridge as
predicted, The dancing was accompanied by ‘MacGregor’s Orchestra’
and about 40 couples were present.
The atmosphere wes quiet as suited the
surroundings, but all declared that it
Was a very good party and one of the
best ideas that had hit Dal for some
time. Refreshments were served about
11.30 consisting of coffee and doughnuts, the last being highly appreciated
by the male contingent. One thing
that seemed to impress everyone favourably was that it was a truly Dalhousi€é party—no cutsicers being presant at all. ‘Ihis naturally leads to a
iriendlier and more united feeling at
this college. It seems also that it was
net fully understocd that any male
student of the University can take any
female student to these At Homes and
that boys do nct have to be asked by
Shirrefl Hallers before attending. The
first Open House was-so successful and
exclamaticns ‘marvellous time,”
‘lovely party’, etc., being heard on all
sides that it warrants its continuation
throughout the term.

of

Pine Hill Notes

If you see a smile on the faces of Hillers in general these days, its because
of Doc Wright. The other night he
arrived about 1.30 a. m. at the door of
Wallie

sleep with him.

wanted to

He

Sellars

reom and
‘Tsk-tsk).
locked out of his own room.

Sellars’

Was

calmly suggested he go back and wake
up his room mate or break down the

d--ndoor. (Thishadn't occurred tothe

Doc.) A blow by blow description of
the next few minutes follows: Knock
“Jim’’ (settle vecé)—Knock—'‘Jim”’ fas

before)— Kneck, Then a helluva noise
as Harty Watts, a somewhat less timid
soul, noisily arrived fora belated rescue.

< WANTED

Informaticn leading to the acquisition of a microscope of sufficient
strength to enable those interested to
see Hank Paliem’s moustache.

Name and room number of the bugler
who roused the third floor annex the
other night with a coronet. And also
the dog outside who sang the duet with
him,

A Pine Hiller who was not named on
the committees of the At Home.

Someone to show us what Gordon
Whidden that we haven't got.
Hew can he produce so many girls for
stags at the At Home?

has

Why hasn’t the vigilantes committee
stopped those hilarious souls on the
second floor annex from making so
much And what Peter
Nicholsen doing, panting and rather
wet, on the third floor the same night
as the flood on the second?

noise- was

At Home to-night
Dont give up hope until 8.30.

Remember the

girls,

S. C. M. Meets

The Canadian S. C. M. attempts to
unite in its fellowship all university
students, regardless of race or religion
who are willing to study the life of
Jesus and test his teachings in their
lives.

To enable students to study the life
of Jesus, groups meet each Sunday
at the home of Dr. H. L. Bronson.

The Dalhousie branch of the movement meetseach Wednesday evening
in the Murray Homestead to discuss
personal and social issues and to hear
a capable speaker.

 

big bad men, when their coming to College is to be educated in an academic
manner, only. The matter of the
peor handling of the O. T. C. is a
questicn fer Federal Government.

Therefcre, Sirs, I ccme to the last
page in the Repert cf this mcst wonderful Commissicn. At times the work
was very trying, but rememter | did
have fun,

Thanking you for spacein your most
I remain
Respectfully yours,

Secretary-General,

 

 

a7

Page Three

 

 

choice of

 

     

\

aT, :*

‘DON |

OLATE A

  

Cc jqunganteUenenthnazgs
oe ith JERSEY, MILE comme
cavesnaeaae wasnt ences <a ess or

CASINO

Starting Saturday
February 19th.

   
   
 
   
   
  
 

DRUGS

 

 

CHOCOLATES The Year’s Fun Festival!

“THRILL OF A
LIFETIME”

with

The Yacht Club Boys

JUDY CANOVA
BEN BLUE

ELEANORE WHITNEY
JOHNNY DOWNS
DOROTHY LAMOUR

FC UNTAIN

 

MacLeod, Balcom

Limited

 
 

Not
Subscribe?

THE

DALHOUSIE REVIEW

Annual Subscription $2.00

Foreign Subscription Postage Extra

REVIEW PUBLISIHNG CO. LTD.,
HALIFAX, N. S.

= x +
ee St ee

 

i ee Fa
  

4

oh Pr,

ee ates,

oo 47. C1 x

r "er%.
_ Pa

  
  
  

cy
ay.
See
a =
ae

he
aa

ai
Be
pee

   
    
 
 
 
   
    
  
   
  
   
   

» e

. a

   

ies ‘

  
 
 
   
   
 
   
   
  
   
 
   

stad
nie ‘=

ore
oe
cy, 1

3 e Miller 4, Kagel.

he

te

  

  

 
 

&,
i
en °

° e;

   
 
 
 

as

og
5

ee

dongs
bs ‘

c
cI ne a a
—— ~~ dj] = “
6. ¥ 7 f ne

~ a
ae

i : Mount A 3 32,

cee weakened and the Mounties
| — :
a

_ that disheartened the Tigers.

‘ play was rough and ragged in spots.

a _ They were capable of turning the pow
ce oe they clicked to perfection

lay-up into the basket. A beautiful
- counter by Laidlaw and two penalties
gave Mount Allison the better end of a
10-8 ‘score at half time.

in holding the Mount Allison boys to

_ ing in two more baskets for Da].

accurate shooting by Mount A proved
too much for the disorganized Tigers.

ball team went down to defeat at the
_ hands of a powerful aggregation from

a in fight, however, and from the opening
eg whistle to the end of the final canto
ter opponents knew they had been

and this. was by reason of the tricky

f ~ found difficult, Outside of this, their

e
bt anal :
hi, aa

sa
*

 
  
 

 

—— Soe
oh Mths

/ vd :
= ae ek,
wir lh * ¥ 1
'

maa Ait 1 Basha
¥ Hea ys A. ct es

      
    

ro

—

2 ia 39 ’ ae
x ings 43 Cubs 22
| Acadia 32 Cubs 22,
| At 26 Y.W.C.S. 14
4 A tie Girls 26 — Dal 11

At Hands Of College Foes

oes Dal 25—Mt. A, 32 a play was good and we were
In a rough and exciting exhibition | particularly struck by Shainhouse’s
B igan at the Dal gym, a fast- breaking | floor-work. They were able to work

_ team from Mount Allison eked out a|the ball around in a manner that at
me a over the Dal Seniors by a score of
‘ ces last Saturday night.
ig very close throughout mot of the

times approached the brilliant. and
could do everything but put the ball
in the basket.

Dal opened the scoring and ran in
three points before Acadia found the
hoop. With the score at 6-5 for the
home team MacKimmie rang the bell
with three successive long shots that
started the Garnet and Blue on their
victory march. The visitors replied
with a couple of two-pointers, but Acadia was able to stretch out their lead
until the score stood at 22-9 as the halftime whistle blew.

After the breather the Tigers added
three more points to their total, but
their efforts were more than matched
by the Osborne-men, who repeatedly
gauged the basket to chalk up an overwhelming number of counters. Dalhousie fought back gamely, however,
and managed to add a few more points
before they were finally forced to ac._|cept defeat. Martin swished a few
“letting. it sip, The Mount a5 through the ring and he was ably asd were very accurate in their sited by Miller, but their attempts to
and eset in this de-| tie it up were of no avail,

The Dalhousians showed a marked
improvement over the Mt. A. game.
The listless attitude that lost them that
match was gone, but unfortunately
they were stacked up against a much
better team and there is no doubt that
the best squad won, The League isn’t
over yet, though, and, in the past,
many Dalhousie teams. have come
back from the brink of defeat to cop
all honours. If they could only get
the support of the students they could
do it. Watch them go.

Cubs Defeated

In a fast and rough game at the gym
Thursday night, the King's Intermediates downed a much improved Cub
squad 48-34. The black and white
team resorted to their usual baskethanging tactics and rung in most of
their points on long passes. The
Tigers scored most of their baskets on
combination plays but weak shooting
spoiled many of their scoring chances.
Making speedy break-aways, the King's
boys broke up the defense tactics of
the Tigers while they closely guarded
their own basket. Rough play, the
bugbear of most Intermediate games,
marred the fixture which apart from
this was very interesting.

At the outset of the contest, the Cubs
showed good ball control and battled
on even terms with Kings.In a short
time Kings went into a scoring spree
which they maintained throughout the
entire half. The Cubs took many
shots in the first half but netted only
11 points. The double biue squad
just couldn’t miss the hoop and counted
up 31 points in the first canto.

The play
game but in the last ten minutes, the

came through with a shower of baskets
Both
sides displayed good basketball but the

_ The Tiger’s chief fault appeared to be a
tendency to take things too easily.
- Some people call it sheer laziness.

er on when it was needed, but instead of
| keeping” it up and winning the game
they descended into a lackadaisical attitude that cost them the victory.
Another thing that was striking was
the fact that the few times when plays

ey were attempted sO seldom that
ee the onlookers that Dal had

an H 4

Isc uintet opened
a lovely overhead
‘ ch was aol by a long one
Miller of Del. Ideson soon after
pped i ina looper for the Tigers while |

 

sh ots. | ‘Martin curled in a spectacur one hander and Shainhouse lifted a

oh

 

The smooth
working Dal defense was a big feature

10 points.

ce Dal went ona scoring spree early in
- the second session and built up a lead
Which was short lived. Encouraged
oe Ideson’s long shot, the home boys
got going with Miller and Martin ringAt
this point the defense weakened and
the Mounties threw enough leather to
put them way into the lead, Ideson
kept up the hopes of the Dal team by
dropping in four more baskets but the

_ Dalhousie—Martin 6, Ideson 138,
- Shainhouse 2, Hatfield, Winter, Stech,

DAL 22—ACADIA 39
A definitely outclassed Tiger basket
cadia on Tusday night. The Gold
and Black basketeers were not lacking

in a hard game,
Dalhousie’s chief cause of defeat
seemed to be their trouble in shooting

The Dal-Kings Co-ed Debate
Monday at 7.30 at Kings.

- ‘Re.
solved Canada Should Boycott
Japanese Goods.’’

back-boards that have always been

 

 
  
 

  

_ MEYERS STUDIOS

MARITIMES LIMITED
RTRAITS OF QUALITY
iar ee ae RAPID FILM SERVICE

Canada’ 's Largest Photographic Organization—

INGTON Fe;
"HALIFAX, N.S. :

 
 
  
 

 

Phone
B-7066

  

A ‘ ’ ;
‘> aa AS at i = a
i IK b im me aS amie po oT Fs oa a
ie plete ft ag mS brag
SM eh ery
ee ee ee ee ey alte) tH Yc.
peas see) Se kgs) Ce eee A) Rt ol oe Pie sh

Dal vs New Glasgow, Forum, Wed. or Thur.

é D al Rate Pair Of Defeats |Dal Girls Win One

a

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

SS Se

Lose Other

Displaying colourful basketball, the
Co-ed hoopsters gave a_ creditable
showing in their initial “appearance
before the student body by defeating a
strong quintet from the Y. W. C. A.
at the Gym last Saturday night by a
score of 26-14. The game was somewhat one-sided but lacked nothing in
interest. Using good detensive and offensive tactics, the Dal girls were able
to disorganize the Association squad |
and keep them in the lower end of the
scoring throughout the game. The
Y. W. C. A. girls seemed unaccustomed to the big Dal floor and did not get
going till the second half.

The Co-eds took control of the play
in the first half and sunk shots from all

angles to build up a wide lead. The

speedy forward line of Hall, Anderson

and Sullivan made openings in the Y’s
defence and their accurate shooting

proved the big feature in Dal’s win.
The Y. W. C. A. girls had the advantage of height but the Campus team

overcame this diiculty by fast passing

and good ball control.

Trying hard to overcome a twelve
point lead, the girls from the Y settled
down and played improved basketball
in the final session. With a tightened
defence, the Association team were
able to keep the Dal forwards in check
and to score several baskets themselves.
During the last few minutes of play,
however, the Co-ed team rellied and
curled in a couple of lovely shots to
give them the game by a wide margin.

ACADIA 26 — DAL 11

The Acadia Girls Basketball team
defeated the visiting Dal Co-eds 26 to
11 in the Acadia Gym at Wolfville on
Saturday afternoon. It was the first
match of the season for the teams and
wild passing and shooting was featured on both sides.

The home team forged ahead from
the opening tip-off and had complete
control of the play right through a
disappointing first half. They scored
repeatedly while the Dal girls only
notched two points to end the half on
the short end of a 13-2 score.

Dal showed a big improvement in
the second period of play. They
came out with a spirited rally and began to overtake the leaders who were
forced to tighten their defence to protect their lead. Before they got into
trouble however, their own plays commenced to click and they forged ahead
again to finish comfortably out
front 26 to 11.

in

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

 

  

 

     

Interfaculty

Law smashed their way to victory
in the Interfaculty Basketball league
this week by virtue of two: convincing wins over their finalist rivals from
Arts & Science. On Tuesday they
swamped the Studley men 40 to 16 in
a game which was one big scoring
splurge for the high powered Law machine. The game featured shining defensive and effective offensive play on
the part of the Lawyers. Yesterday
in what proved to be the final game a
tense ding-dong battle was staged with
the legal men proving themselves just
strong enough to fight off an A & 5S
threat which almost necessitated a
third game. The teams battled on almost even terms through a torrid first
half with the desperate Studleyites having a very slight edge in the play.
Only two points separated the teams
at half time but after the interval Dal
forged ahead and never again relinquished the lead although it was twice
cut down toa single point. Inspiteofa
determined A & 5 rally in the closing
minutes the Lawyers took control of
the game and had built a comfortable
lead to win 81 to 26.

On Monday the Interfaculty
Hockey League the Meds skated
through a floundering Frosh team to
win 7-3 in a listless engagement which
lacked the fire of the close hard fought
matches usually featured in this league.
More in character was the blistering
battle staged on Wednesday evening
when the Engineers downed Law 1 to
0. The Engineers flashed a_ rugged
brand of hockey to overcome the threat
from Law and had the game well in
hand most of the way.

in

SE ee

The National Conference
Commission will speak Sunday
evening at 8.15 P. M. in the
Murray Homestead on ‘Expose
of Dal Politics.’’

 

Glee Club Howler

(Continued from page 1)

the four scenes together was not heavy
enough. The result was the play fell
through. The string was the last
scene. With a set well done they hada
good start, but the ridiculous way the
whole thing was handled induced
laughter rather than interest.

All in all it was a better show than
the last one. But we are still waiting
for a show that will merit the award.
The above two were spotty, the former
because it was too forced and the latter
because of weak producing,

 

 

Your Future Is

IMPORTANT

'T here is room in the life insurance profession for
intelligent, well-educated men, to sell *‘Security’’ to

Canadians for their families and themselves.
considering such humanitarian work

If

as a career

you would do well to choose The Mutual Life of Canada.

Our nearest Branch Manager or the Head Office will
be glad to give you particulars regarding the Company,

its history and policies.

UTU

 

WATERLOO, ONT.

 

JA AL
HOME OFFICE — Established 1869

INSURANCE IN FORCE OVER $540,000,000

 

  
  
  
  

  
     
   
   
   
 
 
   
    
 
 
   
  

Senior’s Game

In a closely fought Basketball match
in the Gym Thursday night the Senior
Tigers nearly took over the second
spot from the Dal Grads but their
plays weren't quite enough to pierce
the strong defence thrown up by the
ex-collegians.

The Tigers drew first blood when
Kagel dropped in a long one, but from
then on the winners opened up a big
lead which, at one time, stood at 18-5,
A powerful offensive drive in the closing minutes of the period netted Da!
many points and at half time they were

one basket down at 19-17.

On resumption of play the Grads
tossed in a few which the Gold and
Black weren’t quite able to make up.

DALHOUSIE 2—BEARCATS 4

In the second semi-final game of the
hockey series the Dalhousie Tigers
lost by a 4-2 score at the hands of the
Truro Bearcats, but by virtue of their
previous 3 goal victory they were able
to take the round 8-1.

The game was a bitter scrap from beginning to end, and it was only by their
stellar defensive play that the Tigers
were able to cop the series.. They will
meet New Glasgow in the Pictou
County centre on Monday in the first
of the final championship games.

BillScott, Tigers basketball manager, wishes to
express sincere thanks to
fraternities on this campus

for their co-operation in
providing sleeping facilities for the visiting Mount
Allison hoop team last Saturday evening.

 

____ February, 19th, 1938

DIA VICTORIOUS IN H IN HOOP GAMES

 

  

SCHEDULE

BASKE1 BALL
Thurs. Feb. 25th.
Dal vs. Dal Grads
9 P.M.

LATE RESULTS

   
  
   
  
     

Dal 2 Truro 4
Dal 29 Grads 33
Cubs 34 Kings 48

  

 

Cubs Take Loss

In Memorial Gymnasium at Wolfville
the invading Dalhousie Cubs received
a set back at the hands of the Acadia
Intermediates 83-22 in an exhibition
battle Tuesday night. The game was
fast, rough in spots and_ exciting.
Lively Acadia backboards bafiled the
shooting attempts of the bewildered
Bengals, but the Red and Black team
had no difficulty in dropping in shots
from seemingly impossible angles, The
Acadia boys made use of their superior
height both in shooting and in blocking Dal’s offensive plays.

The game opened with both teams
playing on even terms but after a few
minutes the fast breaking Acadia forwards got going and showed in a string
of baskets. The Cubs were unused to
the strarige floor and did not make much
progress. The tight Wolfville defence
mnaging to keep the Dal team to five
points in this session while their squad
curled in enough leather for 19.

The play improved after the interval
but was roughter than that of the first
canto. It was here that “Triple
Threat” Colwell received his second
great bouncing of the season at the
hands of the aggressive Axemen. Captain Lyall got his keen eye working and
inspired the Cubs with several lovely
shots.

The Tigers played hard and peppered
the Acadia basket with well-aimed shots
which due to the lively backboards
bounced everywhere but into the basket

In the dying moments of the game
the Cubs got wise to the grid iron tactics of the Axemen and were slowly
cutting down the lead when the whistle
blew. The game was refereed by
Jim Steele of Halifax.

Dal team—Colwell 4, Lyall 11, MacKenzie 2, Cameron, Lipton, Hart 5,
Baycroft, Hutton, Mercer.

 

Student’s Patronage Appreciated

SHAVES HAIRCUTS
SHOE SHINES

—Good Service—

LORD NELSON HOTEL
BARBER SHOP

A. PUBLICOVER, Prop.

 

Going To Town?

If so make the Green
Lantern your headquarers. Specially good
meals, obliging waitresses and clerks, and

a comiortable lounge.

The Green Lantern

407-409 BARRINGTON ST.

 

The latest Popular Music.

The latest Victor Records.

All Popular Magazines.

All Musical Instruments.

Radios in best makes.

Lending Library of latest
Fiction.

Framed views in Nova Scotia

by McAskill and Graham.

McDonald MusicCo.

40 SPRING GARDEN ROAD.

——E[=~E“"""“==F]==S==

Blakeleys—

For LUNCH

DINNERS and
CONFECTIONERY

Join your Classmates
Visit

BLAKELEY’S

43 Spring Garden Rd.

 

 

 

 

B-7555

B-9727

Che Wade Bros. Taxi

5 and 7 Passenger Cars
UNIFORMED CHAUFFEURS

|
TO AND FROM DANCES TAKE WADE BROS. |
|

ai
es

 
