 

7
pte Be
alata

A

   
   

   
   
 

F By

be
a
-"

     

’

isa

©
re
>

ie os
ee
BS

—_
o Nga
=

—.

   

4
$
~~
bt ve
4 <
|

Mian
rie
cs

1a:
Fane:

 
 

,

 
   

  

 
 

  

mS

~—

(oo eng

“= to il be
7 <<

alts

     
   

a

i
*
ray
7
i.
:

- Se the: >
; es? - a“

'

“
7

7 aT >

~
4

+

™
—

*

+7

~

*)

ir *
2a -1

— - - .

   
 
    
 
      
   
  
  
   
  
  
  
 
   
 
  
  

~o

» = 5,
A 4
a - 
ie et

. : "telephoning the Gazette office,
. , 1 0894, from 7.30 p. m. on.

y . | to the Gazette office and results

rm)

r +
2 ms

" granted to the Council of Students the
second Tuesday in March each year
for the celebration of Munro Day.
This i is to be a University holiday and
on March 8 this year the Dalhousie
ie dacdiaen will again be
- where all true Dalhousians will con
__-gregate to honour the memory of the

_ first and greatest of our benefactors—
epee George | Munro.

their athletic powers and again battle
e | for the coveted Munro Day Shield
, now resting in the Halls of Forrest.
‘The Tea Dance, so popular in former
years, will be one of the highlights and
Jerry Naugier will provide the rhythm.

Bay musical show of all time—a large cast
oftour most beautiful co-eds with “Doc”’
Roy and Joe Connolly directing—dancing after the show until 1 a. m.

arian and friend
- Come and see your new student gov2 _ernment, and hear your new Council

| BES

bg

of the coveted Smith Shield emblem_ atic of supremacy at the bar of the Su
the winners over

gts
ni

he

On Tuesday March 8, At Gym

2

   
   
    
 
   
  
   
   

~The» Senate of the University sas

the scene

Studley and Forrest will display

The Glee Club promises the best

‘Students’ Council ticket admits
(opposite sex).

e ent. Se and stag ae

2
—

- Parleos toda ers
Win baw Shield

Messrs. Babbitt Parlee and Benson Rodgers will be this

preme Moot Court of Dalhousie. On
Friday evening last they were adjudged
Messrs Ian Mac_ Keigan and Albert Hanway
_ jmportant trial of the year.

The Honourable Mr. Justice Doull Legislation;

of the Supreme Court of Nova Scotia,
the Honourable J. H. MacQuarrie,
Es C:, Attorney-General for Nova
Scutia, and the Honourable J. A.
Walker, K. C., President of the Nova
Scotia acs incre’ Society, honoured
our Law Society by presiding on the
bench at the final Moot Court of the
Winter Assize.

Mr. Justice Doull announced with a

smile that the appeal was from the

_ Appellate Division of the Supreme
Court of Alberta.

Mr. Parlee, in a@ crowded court
room then touuncared his appeal,
arguing that the hospital which he
represented should not have been held
liable for the injuries sustained by a
_ patient while under the professional
treatment of a doctor and a nurse.
‘He contended that a hospital, being
operated for humanitarian purposes,

ai not be hampered by the same
s ee as
businesses which are operated solely

imposed upon private
for profit.

Mr. Rogers continued the argument,
attacking the application of the doc
=n (Continued on Page 4)

      
   
 
 

  

Early election results Tuesday night may be obtained by

  

   
   

The
editors have arranged to have a
direct line from the presiding
| “officer at the Forrest Building

    
       
  

  

      
       
 

will he peeeiee poll by poll.

       

 
      
         
          
   
     
   
 
    
 
 
 

Labour Conference;
Addresses of welccme;
Presentation of Draft Convention concerning the creation of machinery for
guaranteeing workers the right of collective bargaining; 12.30 P. M.—Noon
recess,
year’s holders | Voting on Draft Convention,
ing—Entertainment

     
      
  
  

  
 
  

inion-Provincial Relations.
—Moved by Nova Scotia, seconded by
Saskatchewan, that the B. N.
inthe most | be amended to give the Dominion
Government full control over Labour

2.30 P. M.

at 11 o'clock.

League To Meet

The 1988 sessions of the Medel

League Assembly of the League of Nations will be held in Fredericton with
the students of the University of New
Brunswick hosts to delegates from six
sister universities of the Maritimes.

The sessions will take three different

forms—an International Labour Conference, a Conference on
Provincial Relations and a Model
League Assembly.
the meetings will provide most interesting and informative discussions, and it
is hoped that Dalhousie as usual, will
send a strong delegation to the League.

Dominion

It is expected that

Those interested in going to Fred
ericton to the Assembly will do Sodales
a great kindness by consulting Jim
Milner, chairman of Sodales Model
League Committee (or other members
of Sodales executive) as soon as possible to arrange a pre-Assembly programme for Dalhousie.

For the information of the readers of

the Gazette we are printing in this issue
the agenda which Sodales executive
has recently received from the Model.

esemably eeaeoetes,

Fredericton.

e a ae

mt AGENDA >

iiscch 22 Model International
10.00 A. M.,—
11.00 A. M.—

— Debate and
Evento be arranged,

March 23—Conference on Dom9.00 A. M.

z2.30 P. M.

A. Act

10.00 A. M.—Debate and
12.30 P. M.—Noon recess;

—Debate on recommendation of Model Rowell Commission
to the effect that the B. N. Ay Act be
amended so as to materially increase
the powers of the Dominion Government (Specific test to be forwarded)
Voting; Evening—Entertainment to
be arranged.

March 24—Meeting of Model
League Assembly; 9.00 A. M.—Moved by Gret Britain, seconded by France
that, Article 16 of the League Covenant
be rescinded; Debate and _ voting;
12.30 P. M.—Luncheon at which a
distinguished speaker will be heard;
4.0 P. M—Open forum of Model
League; Evening—Formal Dance in
the Memorial Hall at 9.00 P. M.

Hall Open House

Delta Gamma is sponsoring the
Open House plan at Shirreff Hall each
Saturday night. So far three successful evenings have been held. The first
was a bang-up affair with Bob Marsh's
orchestra to start things off—the second was equally as much a party to
entertain the visiting Mount Allison
basketball team. But last Saturday
was just open house. Some of the girls
entertained at cards—some just entertained—some dropped in after the
show. A radio, kindly lent by some
of the Hall girls, supplied music for
dancing. Refreshments were served
It was a very pleasant
and informal way of spending an evening.

voting;

 

(Continued on Page 4)

of Students during the present college

   

   

Gordon MacKenzie

Gordon “Bud’’ MacKenzie, third
year Medical student. Mr. MacKenzie’s pre-medical course was taken
at Studley. Familiar with student
government at Dalhousie, he has been

a medical representative on the Council

year. Was manager of the senior
rugby team last Autumn, Quiet and
unassuming, his judgment is respected.

fight for what he believes to be right,

Glee Club
Show

To-Night

Gymnasium

 

 

       

Peter Nicholson
Peter Nicholson, Commerce '40,
Mr. Nicholson is the present Commerce
representative on the Council of Students. Has also been a member of
both the Gate and Book Store committees. A valuable member of the
Students’ Council, he is ever ready to

and since entering Dalhousie has been
one of the strongest men in the Commerce faculty.

 

 

Sodales Active

With Monday night’s hard won victory of Dal’s team of Doug MacKean
and George Hagen over the Kings
team added to the impressive series of
Dalhousie debating wins this season,
Sodales will send more teams to the
wars in the next three weeks. As a result of recent trials, Neil McLeod and
Jim Milner will meet the visiting St.
Francis Xavier team next Monday,
February 28 to oppose the resolution
“that Science has increased the happiness of mankind.”

On Friday, March 8, Laurie Mushkat and Carleton Smith will meet
Mount Allison debaters and argue
the negative side of the resolution
“That every man should have a
Trade.” And on Monday, March 14,
in the gymnasium, Sodales proudly
presents the big debate of the year,
the debate everyone has been waiting
with eagerness and impatience, the
debate with the University of West
Virginia on the rearmament question.
In addition to these ranking intercollegiate debates, next Tuesday noon in
room 8 of the Arts Building, the juniors
and Seniors will fight it out in the last
debate of the Bennett Shield interclass series for the championship of the
Studley Campus. ~

Debate Is Held

At the regular meeting of the Newfoundland Club, Sunday afternoon in
the Arts Building a debate of much interest took place. The subject ‘Resolved that the Commission Government in Newfoundland should be
abolished,’ being of vital interest to
Newfoundlanders at the present time,
as well as many distinguished visitors.
President Morgan deserves much praise
for it was through his efforts that this
debate was made possible. It was
thoroughly enjoyed by all.

The speakers supporting the affirmative were: Mr. Lloyd Baggs,

(Continuéd on Page 4)

 

McGill Cancels
Tim Buck Speech

Montreal, Que. (By Gerald Clark)
—(Special to C. U. P.)—As climax to a
week of tensed activity at McGill,
was announced here tonight that the
Social Problems Club of the University has cancelled the proposed meeting of Tim Buck, Communist Leader
“in the interests of unity on the campus.’ This move was made, executives
explained, to unify the two camps
split at a meeting of the Students’ Society Monday, in order to more effectively combat the Quebec ‘Padlock
Law.”’ At the same time, Everett F
Crutchlow, President of the Students’
Society, indicated the controversy,
started Monday, has not yet ended
when he summoned a special meeting
of the Society for next Wednesday
to reconsider the motion passed by a
majority of five hundred students allowing Buck use of the McGill Union.

Meanwhile, an independent petition
has been circulated on the campus by
opponents of Monday’s resolution demanding that ‘The Students’ Executive Council, Acting for the Students’
Society of McGill University, - refuse
to make available any of the facilities
over which it has jurisdiction for unlawful purposes.”’

In presenting its statement tonight,
the Social Problems Club reiterated
the stand of McGill students “that we
abhor the tenets of the Padlock Law,”
and further declared, ‘““We must not
waste our energy against those forces
in Quebec which are attempting to
suppress the rights of this University
and the country. Our plea to all
McGill Students is unity in the fight
for free speech and Democracy.”

Is To Meet Sunday

A Student Assembly will be
held at the Murray Homestead

Sunday evening at 6.45 o’clock.
Campus politics will be discussed.

 

   

No. 18

JN DAY APPROACHES

iCandidates Are Introduced To
Electors At Student’s Forum

Interest in Tuesday’s elections rose
to a high pitch yesterday when candidates for the various positions were
introduced to an open forum of almost
three hundred students. The majority of the candidates pledged themselves to further the cause of unity
between Forrest and Studley in their
“Tf I’m elected ...’’ addresses. Both
nominees for the presidency of the
Students’ Council, Peter Nicholson
and Bud MacKenzie spoke on this
theme and were greeted with loud
cheers.

Dick Murphy,
Vice President, who is re-offering for
the position after a successful year
and George Corston, popular President of the Arts and Science Society,
also made short speeches promising
to put forward their best efforts in
the interests of the student body and
the university if elected.

Highlights of the enthusiastic meeting were Henry Reardon, nominee
for the presidency of the Glee Club,
handing aroung cigars, “‘like’’, he said,
“that political baby, Edward Barnhill’; Messrs, Rolly Hurst of Commerce
and Law, Clary Gosse of Medicine,
Jim Milner of Law, and others endeavouring to get over some subtle campaigning for nominees Nicholson and
MacKenzie; Johnny Morrison, presidential candidate for the Glee Club
asking for greater co-operation —between the Senate Gymnasium Committee and the Glee Club. All three
candidates for the Glee Club presidency, Bud MacDougall, Reardon
and Morrison promised great things
if elected with more musical shows—
the lack of which has been the students’
great complaint this year.

Miss Gene Morison, B. A., brought
in the old cry of “no graduate society
representative on the Students’ Council” and received the promise of Council President Tag Day, that the
matter would be taken up at the
last meeting of the Council this year.
President Day pointed out that the
constitution would have to be amended
to admit a Graduate Society representative on the Council.

The Candidates

Since many of the candidates are
known only on their own campuses,
here are some facts concerning each
nominee. Those running for President
of the D. A. A. C. are Tom Sheehan,
Law and Byron Hatfield, Studley.
Sheehan is well-known at Forrest and
Studley. He is the present Law
representative on the D. A. A. C, and
has been manager of the Tigers’ '37
hockey team. He is editor of the
current Year Book. Hatfield is
popular Studleyite, and at present
holds the position of Secretary-Treasurer of the D. A. A.C. He is a member of the senior basketball squad.

Nominees for Vice President of the
D. A. A. C. are Charlie Roberts and
George Hagen. Last year Roberts
was the Arts and Science representative on the D. A. A. C. Hagen is a
newcomer this year and is President
of the Freshman class. Two Freshmen are battling for the position of
Secretary-treasurer of the Athletic
Association. They are Walter
*‘Butch’’ Lawson and Donald MacKeigan. Neither has had a chance
to hold office but both appear stalwart
men for the post. MacKeigan is
treasurer of the Freshman class.

Three candidates are running for
the Presidency of the Glee Club—
Henry Reardon, Medicine; Johnny
Morrison, Medicine, and Graham

retiring Council

a

“Bud’’ MacDougall, Law. Reardon is a well-known figure on both
campuses. He was Business Manager
of the Year Book last year and held
the position of Tennis Manager for
two years. For two years he was a
member of the stage crew of the
Glee Club. He has also been Manager
of the Medical Book Bureau and a
member of the Band. Morrison is
also well-known to Dal students.
He has taken a very active part in

organizing the band and has realized

results. He has

great produced a
Munro Day musical show entitled
“Anita”. MacDougall, one-time Pres
ident of Class 40, is an active member
of the Little Theatre Movement in
Pictou. He has taken an active
part in the Glee Club shows on the

past and will be remembered for his
handling of the male lead in “Cinderella”. The Vice Presidency will be

filled by either Marjorie MacLean
or Ruth MacQuarrie.

Bill Stevens and Randolph “‘Gus’’
Day are candidates for the Business
Managership of the Glee Club. Both
are well-known and popular students
and both are noted for their singing
voices,

To-night the various candidates will
again be presented to the electors

between plays at the Glee Club show.
— -—o

Discuss Report

 

It is felt that the students should
be made acquainted with the fact that
the report by Prof. C. H. Mercer,
ed on Page 3 of to-day’s Gazette was
discussed fully at a Students Council
meeting Sunday, February 18, and
satisfactory rebuttals were presented.
The matter is officially closed.

A committee of three was appointed
from the Council to act jointly with
the Glee Club Executive to meet the
Senate Gym Committee and raise the
regulations governing the use of the
Gymnasium. This committee was received by the Senate G. C. on Friday,
February 18, and the matter of “student defiance”’ dealt
with.

The problems of gymnasium use were
pointed out to the Student Committee
and they were asked to consider that
the Gymnasium was much used
building making more co-operatio
necessary. Later the Glee Club Executive were asked to present the uses
they felt that for the
Property Room. This was done along
with the demands of the D. A. A. C.
at a very satisfactory meeting Monday,
Feb. 21. A completely new set of
regulations is now being drafted.

print
was satisfactorily

a

are necessary

oes 2s.
Labour Nominee

Fredericton, Feb. 283—C. U. P.—
Professor McPherson of English and
Modern History at the University of
New Brunswick, has been selected as
Labour candidate in the next House of
Commons election for the constituency
of Midlothian and Peebles, Northern
Scotland, it has been announced from
Edinburgh. He accompanied the U.
N. B. Delegation to the National Conference in Winnipeg last December and
acted as Chairman of a commission on
foreign policy for Canada. Since there
is no indication of an early élection,
and the present parliament may last
until 1940, Prof. McPherson will remain at U. N. B

 

 

 
    
 
   
 
   
    
   
 
    
   
   

F ounded 1869. “The Oldest College Paper in America”.

 

 

GAZETTE STAFF.

Editors-in-Chief.
E, F. MERCHANT.

_B. MACKENZIE.
A. B. MA i

B-3824.

| Associates.
T. Babbitt Parlee, B. A. Walter Murphy. Roland Hurst.
Leonard Kitz. John F. inlay, B. A. Peesy —
Hatfield Lloyd Dalton arbara Murray
eee James Curry, M. A.

News Editor. Sports Editor.
RICHARD MURPHY. JOHN DICKEY, B. A.
B-2427, B-55465.

Asst. News Editor Business Manager. Proof Editor

MARJORIE McLEAN. R.L. ARMSTRONG, B. A. MALCOLM MacLEOD.
| B-5700.
—EE  _____________ EEE

A BETTER DALHOUSIE

We were walking across the campus the other day when suddenly we were accosted by a fellow-student. “Look here,” he
4 of said, ‘I’ve been seeing a lot in The Gazette lately as to “What's
| wrong with Dalhousie,’ and not only that, there has been a lot of
: talk on the same subject. Let me tell you what is wrong—there is
ey. too much criticism.”

That little conversation made us stop and think. He was
absolutely right and we agreed with him. While we admit that
we have criticized to a certain extent this year, yet we also feel
e that such criticism was deserving. Nor have we failed to applaud
when something worthwhile has been accomplished. There is a
great deal going on around Dalhousie that has earned a pat on the
back. It has been a long time since there was such an interest in
music on the campus. The formation of the Choral Society, the
De Symphony Orchestra and the Band are movements worthy of
a enthusiastic support by every student. These organizations are
yet in their infancy, but they will improve given the chance. Consider the strides taken by the Band since last fall. At the first
“ football game it was an excruciating experience to listen to them,
| but they knew they were bad and also they knew that the students
wanted a band, so they practised industriously and they were the
-_—+hhit of the past Glee Club show.

The hockey team is another sterling example. Not given a
chance at the beginning of the season they have battled grimly
through every game and are now in the finals for the league chamiS pionship. They have not only succeeded in showing the fighting
-_ spirit that is a tradition of every Dalhousie team, but in their games
throughout the province they have established such a feeling of
goodwill towards this university that it will last for years.

o q
a ae
“
o

We want to tell you that we do not think Dalis such a bad
place after all. She has her troubles just like any other University
and we do not doubt that she gets over them much easier than
many. She has a great tradition behind her that can only be
maintained by thegreatest co-operation. Let us make of her a
bigger and better Dalhousie by a concerted effort.

OUR HIGHEST AWARD

2 ees OO = - .
eae Ae Sat Le cee

As the end of another college year approaches we commence to
wonder which of our graduating students will win the coveted
Malcolm Honour Award. To those newcomers to Dalhousie
who are unaware of the significance of this award we wish to say
that it is the highest prize at the disposal of those in attendance at

this university.

_ The Malcolm Honour Award is given annually by the Stu| dents’ Council to the men and women at Dalhousie who have
r rendered best all round service to their college, and is presented in
| . the student’s graduating year. This is the greatest honour avail| able to a Dalhousie student and for that reason should be awarded
with the greatest of discretion. To this end there is a committee,
appointed by the Council, and consisting of five members, two of
which are of the Faculty and the remainder from the student
body. The student members must have had previous experience
in one or more forms of student body activity and must not be
graduating. Thus a wise and experienced group is appointed,
and this must needs be so, for in their hands lies the disposal of
something which might almost be called sacred.

 

Therefore we feel that merely best all round service is not
sufficient. It must be a service which is unselfish both to students
and student organizations, one which tosses aside all unworthy

¥ personal inclinations and reaches out only to that which is best for
this university. Such a man was Jimmy Malcolm, and his spirit
must be exemplified in the recipients of this honour.

To keep this, the highest and most coveted student award,
respected, the standard must not be lowered and Jimmy Malcolm’s spirit must live on year after year in those who are chosen.

EXERCISE YOUR FRANCHISE

It is interesting to note the different attitudes being taken totoward the elections on Tuesday. In the three professional schools
at Forrest interest is high and speculation rife; all realize it CAN
be the closest presidential election ever run at Dalhousie. In the
| graduate schools, composed of men and women who have spent
= several years in college, there will be almost a one-hundred percent
poll. The story is shockingly different at Studley. What does
Sam Soph or Jimmy Junior care who will spend his money for him
* next year? Up to the time the Gazette appears at Studley this
Bh week we would wager not 50% of the undergraduates remember
| there is an election four days off. Yet the ignorant half will undoubtedly be the ones who will how! their heads off next year if
campus activities are not directed to their liking.

e =e And so we appeal to YOU, especially you at Studley, to exer_ ~~ cise your franchise on Tuesday and to exercise it intelligently.

 
  
   
 
 
    
 
  
  
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
  
    
 
   
  
  

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

February, 25th , 198g

 

Fantasy - - Fancy
and Fact

**Mobilize’’

Events were moving at a speedy
pace in Europe early this week. The
Austrian-German Conferences seemed
to have been the starting point for a
series of dire situations. The March of
Time radio programme last week alleged that just before Hitler went into
conference with Schussnig, several
Army Corps of German troops prepared to mobilize on the Austrian
border. (Our local newspapers are
severely reticent or uninformed of a
move that, to say the least, is rather
significant.)

‘“‘Iron and Steel’’

A proud Bismarck built up a mighty
war machine in the closing years of the
last century. ‘Our Germany must be
forged,’ maintained the forceful General, “out of ‘Bloodand Iron.” A
half century has elapsed. A new Nationalist strides onto the German scene.
He calls for the vigour of the German
Army’s “Iron and Steel.” A Rip Van
Winkle awaking after a slumber through
the intervening years would find little
difference. It is likely to be the same
fifty years hence,

‘*Halifax in for Eden’’

The unsophisticated visionist, Anthony Eden, isgone. It is a pity to
morals of the world at large and to
England in particular. It is an ample
demonstration of the theory that the
public will forget anything if given
the time. When Sir Samuel Hoare
pronounced a deal with Italy during
the Ethiopian conflict he was swept
from the scenes by the broom of an
outraged public opinion, But with

“To morrow and tomorrow and tomorrow’,
out go the thoughts of yesterday,
and with them go the illusions of a
former, earlier conscience. Men of
broad appreciation of the tides of
opinion sensed the end of Mr. Anthony
Eden, glorious idealist, foolish statesman, Many months ago.

This haste, this quick forgetting of
the bitter recrimination of Italy and
England leaves us with the thought
in mind of the well-worn but understanding lines of a tent maker of the
East,

“Come, fill the cup, and in the fire of
spring,

Your winter garment of repentance

fling,
The bird of time has but a little while
to flutter,

And lo! the bird is on the wing.”

Mr Chamberlain and Mussolini are
drinking together tonight. It is difficult, pulled by the picture of a fait
accompli on one hand, and the admission of a defeated policy on the other,
to decide whether the British leader has
acted wisely or no. It is certain in
the eyes of a large faction, the British
leader, to use the phrase of sport followers, is ‘‘selling out.”’

Snow White

In Quebec, since a disastrous fire a
number of years ago, no children be‘low sixteen are admitted unaccompanied to _ theatres. In _ glancing
through the Halifax Mail the other day
it was noted that in England the
censors there had decided that Snow

White and the Seven Dwarfs should!

not be shown to children under sixteen
in that country as certain parts might
frighten them. The Montreal Gazette a fortnight ago said, on the other
hand that it was a pity that children
in Montreal might be deprived from
seeing the lovely film,

Verily, rising from the wilds of Quebee is a race fearless and brave, undeterred by cartoons coloured withal.
In Merrie England alas, the menacing

__ Obiter

There is a doctrine in our law which
runs Ignorantia legis non Excusat, or
sometimes Jgnorantia juris haud excusal. This has been loosely interpreted to mean that ignorance of the
law is no excusel The maxim does not
say what the excuse is for, but we may
take it that it means any breach of our
laws. It looks very learned doesn’t
it? Things in Latin always do, I
think. The basis for this doctrine is
that every man is presumed to know
the law. (ha ha.) Ask any law student
or any law professor. Law must be a
frightfully easy course, if every man
can be presumed to know it. Of course,
you must look out for that word ‘‘presumed,”’ If you ever see a lawyer
(in an American movie) who isn’t saying “irrelevant, incompetent and immaterial” he will be saying ‘‘presumption.”’ They are men of few words,
these lawyers. What this doctrine is
really based on is that if you mind
your Own business, and run to a lawyer before you get into troubles, you
will be all right.
because |
gradurte.

Medicine Has Gone

Now it is up to Dalhousie to decide
whether it will go along with her. Or
him. It would seem that there has
been a slip up, some terrible mistake.
A Studley man suggested for president
of the Council? Surely not? Studley
should remember that the lives of great
men all remind us. I forget what they
remind us of, but remember, divided
we fall and united we stand. Or, if
you are more patriotic, “Trust in God
and keep your powder dry.’’ ‘That is
not the one on American coins either.
But somehow it doesn’t seem right
that the largest unit on the Campus,
Studley, should have the president
chosen from its ranks. At least that
has been history. In fact, why should
Studley have any representation at allWhat has it done? Is it great like the
Law school- They have no representative. And there are seventy-five students down there. There are only
twice as many at Studley as in the
Medical school? And after all, what
is a representative majority of one
hundred per cent? What does it
amount to? (Or should I say, to
what does it amount? Take your
choice.) We had better vote for Medicine. After four years in medicine,
having practically no class work, such a
student must have acquainted himself
with every major field of student activity. Can he call you by your first
name? That isthe test of a good politician.

I only mention it

can't advertise after |

Plagiarism

I always like to give credit where
credit is due. You may have noticed
that I quoted Punch a while back
You did? Gosh. Consequently, I
want to give credit for a sentence appearing this column last week,
“Even though Faculty powers appear to
think he’s a Great Dane.’ This clever
line isnot by me. In fact I didn't know
about it until the Gazette was published.
These little surprises are the spice of
life. I mention this because the
sense was sOmewhat changed (if any).
I have distinct leanings toward the
faculty and constitutional behaviour
on this point,

hceeearen eg

“It is forbidden to kill; therefore all
murderers are punished unless they
mill in large numbers and to the
sound of trumpets.’’—Voltaire.

in

finger of temerity is pointed scornfully
Maybe it all lies in the fact that there
is a steady usage of French brandy in
Quebec, and as the boisterous Dr.
Samuel Johnson once observed ‘‘Claret
is for boys, port for men and brandy
for heroes.”

 

eee
On page 1 of this issue appear the biographies of the nominees for
the posts of President and Vice-President of the Council and
President of the D. A. A. C. Read these biographies and act according to your judgment. Great mistakes have been made in the
past at Dalhousie—men have been chosen to fill important positions merely because they are well known, merely because their
names are on the lips of everybody as the result of some service
rendered to the University in another field. We would point out
that men should be chosen for these positions on their merits as

Soran for the work of the Council requires administrative
ability.

Last year students flocked to the

polls to register the largest
number of votes in several years.

This year the total should be

larger. And again we exhort you to elect your Council with discretion. If you know only one of two nominees find out about the
other. Forget friendships, faculties, fraternities, sororities and

vote intelligently. VOTE FOR THE MAN ‘
REARS N, NOT FOR HIS

“The purest form
in which tobacco
can be smoked.”

When You Need

DRUGS MEDICINES PRESCRIPTIONS

or any other Drug Store Merchandise

SERVICE

 

VALUE

KINLEY’S DRUG STORES

You get better and

at

BEFORE BUYING

LUGGAGE or LEATHER GOODS
OF ANY KIND SEE

AELLYS LTD.

118 GRANVILLE ST.

 

CHALLENGER
WATCH TIME

CASINO

6 Days Starting Saturday
February 26th.

 

Rapidly becoming Canada’s
slogan when referring to
watches, these three words
represent unceasing vigil by
Birks, lest quality or sound
value deviate the least bit
from Birks high standard.

Are you wearing a Challenger?

 

Greatest Show
On The Screen!

“HOLLYWOOD
HOTEL”

20—STARS— 20
2—BANDS—2

Henry Birks & Sons

Limited
Diamond Merchants
Halifax

 

 

 

YOU'RE THERE

when you

TELEPHONE!

There’s something so satisfying about a telephone chat with friends and relatives living far
away, that it just can’t be described!

Voices sound so natural and clear that it’s
hard to believe they’re miles away. Such a call

has all the genuine friendliness and sincerity of a
visit in person.

If you’re a little worried about someone— if
you'd like to hear a voice that means much to you—
pick up your telephone. Out-of-town calls were
never cheaper. So why not take advantage of the
reduced Long Distance rates after 7 o’clock at
night and all day every Sunday?

Maritime Telegraph & Telephone

| Company, Limited
ce atten kd in AR ae aad

 

 
    
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
   
   
  
 
  
  
     
  
  
   
   
     
     
   
   
  
   
 
 

2
e
A
)

A

7+
ea

os

 

“Sa

 
    

+
5

  

a

   
 

          

4
we “Sas

iw = :
ee
ia

ee

as

telephone question again.

glitters, and all that is Gold isnot bright.

2 ae
a
= «
oS in ep
ae ~

which we bet Prof. MzcNeil couldn't

Bt.

  

e

 

a . i
a. :

show is gathering, it looks as though
“all is forgiven—return at once!

 

Nominations for the job of President
of the august D. A. A. C. seem to be
slightly less welcome than roses in

December. Of course, we wouldn't

compare it with the president of the
Soviet Union, but?

The King’s student council seems
to be running afoul of the old familiar
Why don’t
they hang up a nickel with a string on
it?

The Gym, controversy apperently
has been settled, at least for the present. When Dalhousie authorities
come to realize their shiny horseless
carriages and protruding waistcoats
alike are dependent on fees paid by
athletically-inclined students, it’ll be a
great day for the commons.

Which calls to mind the squash court
question. When the gymn*sium was
erected, it seems that in their quaint
way the donors of the glittery which
made possible its erection intended it
primarily for student use. In this, as
well as every other matter on this
campus, it should be realized the students are entitled to, and pay for,
primary consideration.

Those censors of the Gazette, who were
good enough to edify the student body
with their opinions in a late issue,
seemed to have let the mention of beer
take their mind off such minor things
as time. As we remember it, the beerparlor fiasco was two years ago.

The evil tongue of runour has it that
seven sparrows were found dead outside Walter Murphy's door after he
left his home Monday. Some _ necktie!

Mention of clean politics would go
as well in Russia as here, but with the
elections of the D. A. A. C. officers

- coming up, a little honest thought

won't be amiss—Better be safe than
sorry.

~ Theorem’ 123: All is not gold that

There’s a curve out on Elm Street

plot. If he can, he’s a better man
than McAvity.

Mathematical note:

Add one pint to one quart and what
do you get? Answer:—The guys in
the next three rooms.

The Student Union building seems
to be shelved with the League of Nations and the Harbour bridge—At
least it’s in good company.

And. another thing—when is some
public-spirited philanthropist going to
buy gags for Cameron MacNeil and
Red Payne?

They tell us the kids next door are
allowed to play on the street again,
what with ‘Mother's car” laid up and
all

A College Poem

Copp and Davison, Jones and O’Brien
Sat at a table in one lone line;

A library table and one well used
Where many a great man often mused.

 

A blonde went out the door,

Old Copp could stand no more;
Three guys left in the line,
Davison, Jones and O’Brien.

A brunette leaves,
Davison grieves:
Leaves in the line
Jones and O’Brien.

Girls go

And so
O'Brien groans
Leaves Jones.

Jones
Moans;
Damns
Exams;
_Scrams.

, Nothing left but a library table

Where once sat four guys, strong and
_ able,
When the girls left they couldn't stop

_~ Davison, Jones, O’Brien and Copp.

ae 3

—McGill ‘‘Daily.”’

- Town Crier

From the tributes the last Glee Club

T. Y. M.

Its not often that a meeting accomplishes its purpose so thoroughly
as did the N.F.C.U.S. Symposium on
“An Exposé of Campus Politics.’’
Asa matter of fact the occasion was a
perfect example of just those politics
for it resolved itself into a discussion
of methods of frustrating the traditional ‘as med goes so goes Dalhousie.”
Among other absurd accusations Mr.
Hurst contended that Medicine with
its mere three members out of 14 was
hoodwinking the student council and
that only 10 to 15 Dalhousians at
Forest were interested in Student affairs (Imagine that when Forrest also
harbours the Law school.) Let the
number of votes cast in next week's
elections speak for the number of
Meds interested in Dalhousie aflairs.

Now that the February issue of the
Med Journal is out and distributed,
work has begun on the April issue.
The editors request us to announce
that all articles must be in before
March the twelfth. In honour of next
summer’s Reunion, the 11ext issue will
be devoted largely to the history of our
School, its Medical Society, graduating
class and fraternities.

Heard in the Pharmacology Lab:
“Begg, when will you cease to be the
Peter Pan of the Medical faculty?”

Our agent at the V. G. informs us
that Chester Stewart has returned
fully recovered from his tonsilectomy
and subsequent vacation.

It seems that there was a deal of
anxiety last Wednesday evening at
the ®AE formal over the disappearance of Jerry (Duke) Lebewitz.

(Continued on Page 4)

 

The Woman Pays

During this past week at Acadia the
co-eds are teking over all the social
activities On their own shoulders for a
change. All the usual duties and conventions that are accepted as part of the
role of the well versed young man
around the campus are being monopolized by the females. They ask the
men for dates, to dances, hold open
doors, pass cigarettes, profer chairs,
etc, etc., and, incidentally, pay all the
bills. This system is very popular
with the male contingent and. the
benefits to all are naturally many. To
point out a few, in the first place the
girls can pay back all they ove to their
men friends during the past term.
They have all the ideas and entertain
them as they think best. they even do
the tagging at dances. Secondly,
they can probably teach them a lot of
courtesies that are often overlooked by
the all powerful male—show him the
right technique at shows, restaurants,
en and off street cars and so forth.
They can even send corsages (we're not
just sure who profits in this case) amd
what male doesn't love candy at times?
And thirdly but certainly not the last,
a week of providing these amenities
for a companion no matter how engrossing, will show any belle that they
cost hard cash. Often girls (not these
at Acadia in particular) but girls in
general vill grow accustomed to the
services and courtesies (if they get
them: of their escorts and take taxies,
movies, dances and flowers all for
granted. A week of this reverse treatment would soon bring such hard facts
home to the most scatter-brained co-ed
clearly and distinctly. (Maybe at
the end of the week she will sit home
by the fire with a good book!) But in
any case, fair exchange is no robbery.
““Meanwhile,”’ as one bright person was
heard to remark, “the males escorted
by their lady friends will probably
look more unnecessary than ever!"

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

-Chairman’s Report to Council

This is the second instalment of

Prof. Mercer’s report to the Students’ Council on the Gymnasium
problem.
Once more, we regret that there is no
other social room in the gymnasium, and
would ask you to believe that nobody
has tried harder than the Chairman of
the Senate Gymnasium Committee to
provide such accommodation—in addition to the Arts Common Room—
for students who want to meet together
in pleasant company. But—I am the
Chairman of the S. G. C. and as such I
object very emphatically to a room
nominally intended for stage purposes
being used by all and sundry, Glee
Club Executive and others, as a students’ common room, i. e., common to
men and women students. Mr. Korning agrees with me and for that reason
he requested these three men and two
women to go home last Wednesday
night. One of the young ladies was
not on the Glee Club Executive, was
not in any of the plays last Friday night
—why should she have refused to do as
she was requested?

Discipline. [| hate the word. Still
less do I like the suggestion in the two
letters printed in Friday’s Gazetie that
Mr. Korning, is a Fascist dictator.
He did his duty, namely to tell a party
of students, some of whom had no business to be in the Property Room at all,
to go home. I shall be told that the
students thought the building was open
until 11 p. m., even on evenings occupied by concerts. Granted that they
did think the Physical Director thought
differently, and asked them to leave,
as the janitor certainly was under the
impression that he was entitled to go
home as soon as the building was vacated by the public. If Mr. Korning
was mistaken—and the Senate Gymnasium Committee is of the opinion
that he was right—the proper remedy
is not to defy his orders but to obey
them and then, if the students felt
they had a grievance, to appeal to the
Students Council, or the Senate Gymnasium Committee, or the Senate,
or even the Board of Governors and
the President. If individual students
are to interpret regulations as they
think fit, then law and order is at an
end, and | for one do not wish to carry
on any longer as Chairman of the Senate Gymnasium Committee.

Property Room. There is really
no problem as to discipline: the students were requested to leave the building because the Physical Director did
not feel that they had any reason to be
there after 10.30 on the evening of the
Matzenauer concert. I have already
stated, in my letter to the Gazette that
if I had had my own way these students

Pine Hill Story

“Rejoined by Love,” the Pine Hill
melodrama, played before a_ select
audience composed of the guests at the
At Home, proved a very entertaining
farce. Allen Barret made an excellent
villain, and Bill Howse takes the bouquets for his dual portrayal of the village bankclerk and clergyman detective from the Protective Agency. In
an impartial account one is bound to
add that Bill interpolated a bit that
would scarcely have found its way into
a minister’s Conversation. One should
also add that Jim Beveridge’s wig fell
off, but if it was noticed, such a polite

 

audience said nothing. The savoir
faire with which he replaced it is
equally creditable. (Now if it had

been Jimmy Cross). Bill Howse chased
himself around a pole in centre stage,
which had us guessing until it became
evident that it was a prop for a lighthouse. It is regrettable that when
Bill (not in the script) he tore his Sunday-go-meeting pants. John King and
Jim Beveridge made nice ladies, having to raise their voices considerably.
Doc Wright also made a little old lady.

(Continued on Page 4)

 

   
       
     

 

Bly 91.0.5 tc!

HERBERT

 

   

TAREYTON

 
   

SMOKING MIXTURE

or at least their spokesman, would
have been deprived of their gymnasium
privileges temporarily, say for four
weeks. If similar insubordination oc
curs, the Senate Gymnasium Committee will feel compelled to impose
the penalty to which I have referred—
suspension from the gymnasium privileges. We do not want to act in the
capacity of policemen and judges, and
I trust that this frank statement of ours,
or at least my position, will prevent the
repetition of such unfortunate misunderstandings between the Physical
Director and the students.

This does not solve the problem of
the Property Room, in fact, I have no
final solution to offer you this afternoon. That is our main reason for
being here; namely to obtain your advice. We frankly do not like this
property room being used for purposes
such as I have described—card playing
and general social recreation. At the
same time we do not wish to behave
like grandmothers or elderly women
who would deprive younger people of
pleasant social enjoyments.
ask the Council therefore to ask the
Glee Club to draw up some rules and
regulations for the use of the Property
Room. We suggest the following:

(1) The Property Room shall be
used by members of the Glee Club
Executive only.

2. The Physical Director shall be
entitled to a key.

3. When occupied by aforesaid
members of the Glee Club Executive
the door shall remain unlocked.

4. The property room shall not be
used for card-playing.

5. There shall be no smoking in the
Property Room.

6. Students shall vacate the property room, at night, when the building
is closed, i. e., they shall not remain
there all night.

When I suggested to Professor Theakston that the Glee Club should not be
allowed to use this room any longer, he
replied that there would be a loud protest from the students. Let the Glee
Club therefore draw up some such rules
for the use of the property room, have
them endorsed by the Students’ Council, so that the Senate Gymnasium
Committee may be spared the reproach
of trying to act in a dictatorial manner.
In conclusion, all the members of the
Senate Gymnasium Committee and
the Physical Directcr want to do their
best for the University and the students using the gymnasium.

C. H. Mercer,
12;

February 1938.

 

 

 

We would!

 

 

/

WHY NOT ENJOY
ONE EVERY DAY 2 .

 

 

WILLIAM POWELL
and ANNABELLA
in the Comedy

“The Baroness and
the Butler”

DRUGS

CHOCOLATES

FOUNTAIN

 

 

MacLeod, Balcom

Limited

 

 

 

 

Insist on getting

Donovan’s Beverages
including

Dublin Dry Ginger Ale

Donovan’s Orange Juice 3 |

‘ Ste 15—different flavours—15 :
NOW at the

W. H. DONOVAN
CAPITOL

45 Granville St. B-682,

 

Social Note

Tip Top Tailors announce the wed
ding of their beautiful British fabrics—

Fox, Harris, Kynock, etc.—to the new

and brilliant Spring and Summer

Styles.

The ceremony will be per
formed by Tip Top’s ace hand-cutters

and talented tailors who will mold the

happy twosome in an impressive bit of

tailoring skill. All friends of the man
agement are invited—but run, don’t

$24.95

walk!

‘THAND-CUT AND TAILORED TO YOUR

TTU238

INDIVIDUAL MEASUREMENTS

TIP TOP TAILORS

LIMITED

422 BARRINGTON ST.

 
   

New Elander? :

ca ool Dealig
rage eae —"
?

     

‘a Dal 4
F: New ( Glasgow 9 Dal7
Pee cy

TF BASKETBALL s

 

- Grads 39 Dal 30

pew =) "Dalhousie Tigers were put out of
Biter the senior hockey running Wednesday
night when they were defeated by

‘
ee
~

Ps,
hae he New Glasgow for the second straight
time 9-7, The Seven Up's demonstrated
conclusively that they were the superior

team. Foster Dickson, who rattled
six goals past Koretsky and Kink MacDonald consistently outskated the
_ whole Dal team and combined to make
life miserable for the Tigers’ netminder.
Despite the fact that they scored
nine times, New Glasgow did not look
_ Sapecially impressive as their usually
smooth passing attack went haywire
_ on numerous occasions, but they were
2 i deadly accurate when they did break
; _ through. The Tigers looked very good
most of the time and the majority of
their markers were the result of beautifully executed passing bouts, but every
so often they suffered lapses when they

Tao

Te
sit 
a
7: = J

 

 
   
   
 
 
  
 
 
  

; ie

Eos Spiydowns By 7 7 Up’s

 

‘Drop Opener 7-4

Playing smart hockey throughout the
whole game New Glasgow Seven Up’s
defeated the Dalhousie hockey squad
by a score of 7-4 in the first game of the
Nova Scotia Hockey League finals.
The Tigers had earned the right to
meet the Steel town team by squeezing
out a close victory over Truro in the
semi-finals and were determined to
hand the undefeated New Glasgow team
their first setback of the year. However, Foster Dickson and company had
different ideas on the matter and in the
wide open game they managed to
keep their record , intact.

Paced by Dickson, the Seven Up’s
kept the game pretty well under control all the way and always managed
to break through for scores whenever

Favour Lectures

In spite of all the criticism levelled
against it, Dalhousie students after
hearing the resolution ‘Resolved that
the lecture period should be abolished” debated, decided that the system
had its merits and so the Junior class
was triumphant in the semi-finals of
the Bennett Shield Debate held on
Tuesday.

The only untoward event of the occasion was the non-appearance of the
three professor—judges and _ consequently precedent was established when
the chairman, Davy MacKeen, Secretary of Sodales, named the audience
judges of the debate.

Walter Lawson of the Freshman class
claimed that through the lecture system retards originality and _ initiative.
In place of the lectures he advocated
the tutorial and seminar system as at
Oxford, where the mass production
idea was significantby its absence.

The leader of the Junior team, George

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

T. Y. M.

(Continued from Page 3)

In our opinion the fourth year class
is not being fair. In return for ccrtain concessions they promised complete attendance and look what happens. To say the least their conduct
is hardly decent to the classes to come.

By far the deepest interest during
the nine o'clock clinic is shown by
Phil Brokow—interest in a daily letter
by a definitely feminine hand.

Its a treat to watch Crossman Young
taking his daily sun bath and vitamin
capsules—What no vitamin E!

We'll see you all at the Med Banquet
on Saturday night so watch your step.

acai ap i ns ace

Debate Is Held

(Continued from Page 1)

B. Sc., (Leader), Miss Betty

Mr. Bill Crummey; the negative was

upheld by Mr. Reg. Ash, B.S. C.,,

(leader), Miss Margaret Barron, Mr.
Mac Mercer, B. A.

Mr. Allan Barrett and Mr.

Sandal,

Morgan

 

  
 
         
 
    
  
    
   

   

  

| Parlee, Rodgers Win

(Continued from Page 1)

trine of res ipsa loquiiur to the case.
He maintained that it had not been
proven that his clients had the control
|of-the causes of the accident. It was
not shewn, he said further, that the
nurse was not a radiologist.

Mr. MacKeigan, opening the case
for the argued that the
nurse was negligent while acting within
authority and in the
duty, and he claimed the
appellants were under a
i duty give the respondent
treatment without injury.

Mr.

friends

respondents,

the scope of her
course of her

 

contractual
to proper
his learned
of sentences
amounting to half-truths. As he reachprove his contention
Justice Doull remarked that very

Hanway accused

of citing parts

'ed for a volume to
Mr.
little use had been made of the long
books. Counsel replied that
that was because the appellants had
been afraid to use them.
the

row of

He sought to

justify application of res ipsa

February, 25th, 1938

 
 

SCHEDULE

BASKETBALL

  
 
    
    
  

Dal vs. Acadia
INTERFACULTY
Softball

 

Hall Open House

(Continued from page 1)

The idea is to bring the students together. Dalhousie has no students’
union building so here is a ¢hance for
Dalhousians to get together once a
week. Although it is impossible for
Delta Gamma to invite the university
at large if every Gamma co-ed entertained of the male students it
would certainly bring a crowd together.
It is admitted a crowd ot that size has

one

not yet turned up and it is hoped it will
not for the Hall could not acconrmodate

it. But come if you can, to the Delta

Gamma Girls at Home Saturday nights

until midnight.

adjourned and the judges retired.
Upon their return Mr. Justice Doull
declared that they had had some difhculty taken time
reaching their decisions, the
sentation by every had been
very good and the matter of high order

antl had some in

as pre
member

 

 
 

Ses couldn’t do anything right and the the Tigers threatened to become dang- Piercey, believed that the lecture} congratulated Mr. ‘“Ike’’ Mercer, LL. | foquitur and argued thet the hospital|‘‘as jis not unusual in Dalhousie,”
Rico speedy visitors raced through for goals. erous. The newly formed Dal line system fulfilled the main purpose of | B., on his admission to the Bar of Nova | was negligent in not supplying a ae He announced that Messrs. Parlee and

‘% Both defences were wide open all of Buckley, DeWolfe and Corston | education: that of learning to live an|Scotia. Both speakers spoke highly | logist and that the doctor was negligent | Rodgers had produced the best arguPra the time with the Dal rearguard look- | #8#!" starred for the Collegians and] jntelligent, unbiased life. The time]of Mr. Mercer as a student, of Ph controlling the apparatus without| ments but that the appeal was dis
 

were responsible for all four goals. table of a lecture system, he said, waSa|housie and also as founder and past}the necessary knowledge. missed, Mr. Justice Walker dissenting

ing especially futile whenever Dickson
and MacDonald came down the ice.
_ The rival goalies turned in amazing
performances. Koretsky stopped all
the hard ones but was fooled with two
soft shots. Sonny Macdonald, in the
are New Glasgow cage was so nonchalant
| at he nearly picked in many goals

ona had. the Dal
Hetbrace of goals apiece
ee ae and Buckley

  
    
  
     
 
 
 
 

wil

      
   
   
 
   
   
   
  
  
   
 
     
  
 
 
 
 

le oe weve: the ee of the Dal tean.
po Be t a dinner ¢ given in appreciation of the
_ fe way in which the Tig sers have been

received on their visits to the Steel
eae p tepe ‘The Dalhousie team wish the
ae “even Up's every success in their pura ~* suit cf the Nova ‘Scctia Hockey title.

Re Dal line-up—Goal, Koretsky; De_ tence, Macdonald, MacGregor, Car_ oll; Forwards, Buckley, Corston, De_~ Welfe, Mont, Collins, Conn.

 

Pine Hill Story
ee (Continued from Page 3)

 _ Cliff Stewart as author, Pat Macdonald as director, and John MacLean
as prop boy, are as much responsible
for the success of the productien as are
the actors. Wilfréd!Boothroyd and
John MacLean added to the cause with
musical moments on the piano between
scenes.

-, The story is “tad of how Frank
_ Phinney applied to the play committee

___ for the role of Satan, which he was in_ formed was outstanding, Probably
Frank figured such a role would require very little preparation and easily

_ adaptable to his special ability.

THOMAS WALLAGE

‘SONS and DAUGHTERS 
 

 

 

 

SIGHT SPECIALISTS

 

Halifax, N. Ss.

OAK HALL BUILDING
Sydney, N. S.

rif You Want to See Well See
Wallace"

— [Sa — it
: e "

=i ae

eS

b :
mel, Fag tt

   
  

AA

TRANSLATIONS

We Can supgiy Any English Translation Published for All Languages
ee" vik _ ORDER OR WRITE FOR PRICES ON YOUR NEEDS

THE BOOK EXCHANGE REG’D.
_ Specialists i in New and Used Text Books

New Glasgow took a two-goal lead
in the early part of the first period
when Dickson and Cox beat Koretsky.
Dalhousie evened it up when Corston
soloed through to score, and Buckley
notched another on DeWolfe’s nice
pass. New Glasgow then slammed in
four goals before the Tigers again found
net. This time the marksmen were

Buckley from Corston and DeWolfe

on Buckley's pass. Dickscn added his
fourth goal between these two Dal
scores and the game ended with New
Glasgow on top 7-4.

 

Grads Win Game

The battling Tigers were tossed for a
loop by a band of sharp-shooting excollegians at the University gym last
night. Poor play in the opening
canto was the reason for their bad show
ing and when this was coupled with
their obvious stupidity in dribbling instead of passing no other result could
be expected,

The Grads rang in two baskets and a
toul before Shainhouse connected with
the hoop with a nice one-handed effort.
Hart sank a free throw to make the
score 5-3, when the Old Boys went ona
netting rampage and ran out the score
to 23-10 at half time, deadly shots by
Goudey and Parker mainly contributing to the high total.

After the breather, the rejuvenated
Tigers returned to go on a scoring spree
of their own. Baskets by Miller and
Martin started the Dalhousians on a
prolonged spurt to gain the lead and
at one time they were within five points
of taking it over. The Grads, however,
fought back gamely and were able to
nurse their margin to a_ successful
finish. Sparkling long shots by Doug
Crease and Bauld were the chief means
of keeping the Grads’ heads above
water, and the game ended at 39-30.

The entire match was featured by
many fouls and poor shooting under the
basket on the part of both teams, but
the wide open play pleased the few fans
that were in attendance.

Orchids to Alec Hart playing his
first game in senior company, and to
Cy Miller for his usual heady play.

TORONTO, ONT.

a

the Le eh aa

  
 
   
     
   
  

wonderful training in routine work.} president of the Club.

 

 

After the appellants’ reply court was

 

iin the dismissal.

 
