a ee
Pad ¥

oe

7

* *,

 

self in his three act effort.
ke aside the axiom that a play is as strong

 

‘Lord Pal
9.00 P. M.

 

 

VOL, LXVIII.

- POOR SUPPORT AT STUDLEY DEFEATS CANDIDATE


 

 

_ Shield Won By Players Guild;

Critic Scores

By the Gazette Drama atic}

Its not again but still. To be quite
frank, its becoming increasingly tiresome deriding and tearing apart poor
individuals who have no business appearing on a stage. The show on last
Friday night was no better than the
other two.

It was interesting in that an original
effort by a Dalhousie student was staged and produced by himself. His producing in the one act effort was not
completely devoid of sense nor was his
staging, but the playwrighting should
have been left in school where it belongs. His dialogue in the first effort
Was appropriate, his theme trite,
however, it showed possibilities but the
plot was obviously ‘‘the offspring of a
Divinity Hall”.

The acting was satisfactory, what
there was of it, for the action depended
mainly on the musical talent of a group
of Flunkeys. Fortunately this was
good.

The author in part, redeemed himLeaving

as its second act, it was sound. Capturing a certain mood, the players
~ handled it with a spirit of foolishness
and earnestness which jibed successfully and carried the whole tying
through.

Allan Barrett topped the performance as the perfect villain, while John
King as Ivy, and Bill House as the
hero followed close on his heels.

The set for the last scene was ingenious, meeting the approval of both
the audience and your humble chronicler. It showed imagination and just
the proper touch of banality.

Note—We received a note from a
Pine Hiller praising the above plays.
We believe you are definitely biased
but thanks anyhow for your opinions,
Sorry we couldn’t print it due to lack
of space.

Radio Hour Off

The Dalhousie Trans-Canada Radio
Programme has been indefinitely postponed accordingly to word received
from the University authorities on
Tuesday afternoon. No clear cut reasons were given for this decision, but
it is generally felt that the submitted
programme did not measure up to the
qualifications necessary to a college
holding Dalhousie’s position. It was
stated that it might possibly be held
a year from now but nothing definite
except its postponen.ent was announced.

It is felt that the standard of the
various numbers was not sufficiently
high, but whether this was due to the
somnolent attitude of the students
participating or whether insufficient
time was allowed for rounding out the
programme is not known. In any
case Dalhousie’s greatest opportunity
in years has been “indefinitely postponed”’ and whether or not a similar
occasion will arise again is not known.

 

?

Applications will be received
by Murray Rankine, 51 Larch
St., up to Sunday, March 13,
for the following positions—
Editor — Bus. Man—Gazette

Editor, Adv. Man. — Sales Man.
—Year Book.
Editor—Handbook.

Property Man.—Glee Club.

 

Hill Attempt

D.A.A.C. Head

 

TOM SHEEHAN

 

Letter Banquet

At last Dalhousie Athletes are to
receive a recognition worthy of their
services—a “‘Letter’’ Banquet is to be
held for all male athletes of the College on Monday, Mar. 7th at 7 p. m.,
Halifax Hotel. Prior to the Banquet
the annual D. A. A. C. meeting will be
held in the Hotel at 6 p. m.

Through the untiring efforts of Pres.
Gordon Thompson, the D. A. A. C.
has succeeded in providing this Banquet which is being sponsored by the
Alumni. This Banquet will be similar to “Letter Banquets’ held by other
Universities, every athlete, along with
Managers and coaches, under the
jurisdiction of the D. A. A. C. will be
invited. Tickets will be provided for
the other members of the D. A. A. C.
(all male students) at a cost of $1.00
per person.

This Banquet is the reaiization of a
dream held by many Dalhousians, both
past and present, and if this Banquet
receives the support of the students it
should develop into an annual affair.
Lets see all the male students out on
Monday night to honour their athletes.

NEWMAN CLUB

Communion Breakfast

Sunday, Mar. 6, 10 A. M.

 

Prom Tonight

The day ef days has arrived. Ciass
’39’s big compliment to the graduates
is scheduled for tonight. The last big
event of the college social whirl is being
lavishly prepared for at the Lord Nelson Hotel and al! the studes and their
women are straining at the leash, waiting for the witching hour of 9 o'clock
to swing around.

Jerry Naugler and his Swing-hi
Rhythm isin charge of the musical
arrangements and this assures everyone of a wild and glorious evening.
Supper will be served at the usual time.

The President and Mrs. Stanley
have gracious!y consented to act as
chaperones together with Prof. and Mrs.

| Escott Reid and Prof. and Mrs. Nicolls.

HALIFAX, N.S., MARCH, 4th, 1938

  

Personnel of Socicties

   

 

Ceunci! President
Gerdon “»ud’’ MacKenzie

Freshman Representative
Douglas MacKean

Medicine
Art Ormiston
Ralph Plummer

Vice-President
George Corston

Law
Don Storey

Commerce Dentistry
Doug Cameron Phil Christie
Engineering Class ’

Zilpha Linkletter
Bye-eiection for other

Clase *
Gecrge Hagen

Walter Lawson
post.

Class ’40
Bob Walters
Shirley Kirkpatrick

D: A. A.C.
President
‘Tom Sheehan

GLEE CLUB
President
Johnny Morrison

Vice-President
Ruth MacQuarrie

Business Manager
Bye-election

Vice-President
George Hagen

Secretary-Treasurer
Walter Lawson

ELECTIONS
STUDENTS’ COUNCILS
Law Comm Eng. Arts Dents. Med. Total
Pres ScP. :

MacKenzie. . 11 1 5 106 28 182 333

Nicholson... 64 13 | 2 184 17 16 296
Vice-Pres. :

Murphy..... 24 2 5 90 13 125 259

Corston..... 50 18 | 2 193 26 60 344

GLEE CLUB
President :

Reardon..... 3 4 3 108 6 7 198

Morrison. ... 17 5. 0 93 37 111 263

Macedougall.. 54 5 4 81 2 11 157
Vice-Pres. :

MacLean.... 49 9 6 144 16 43 267
MacQuarrie.. . . 24 6 1 129 123 140 323
Business Man.

Stevens..... 38 6 4 178 28 148 402

DAW hese ee: 35 9 3 102 14 35 198

Dp; A. Al ¢€
President

Sheehan..... 66 4 2 89 29 144 334

Hatfield. .... 6 10 5 106 15 44 186
Vice-Pres. :

Roberts. .... 35 8 1 105 16 69 234

Hagen...... 33 6 6 89 26 119 279
Secretary :

Lawson..... é 28 10 4 105 14 112 273

MacKeigan .. 44 4 1 91 26 66 23

 

 

AN ENGINEERING FEAT

An Editorial

Well may Studley’s Society of Graduate Students now cry for representation on the Students’ Council after the farce the Engineers
made of their Council representative election. The man who will represent the Engineering Society on the governing body next year will
represent SEVEN men. Or, at least, so Tuesday’s election returns show.
The total vote cast for the two Engineering nominees was SEVEN and
this out of a registration of more than SIXTY in the faculty. If only
one-sixth of the Engineering Society voted on their nominees then they
are not worthy of separate representation on the Council. On the other
hand, if, as rumour tells us, the great majority cast their votes on class
candidates who are Engineers anyway, and by this method increased
the Engineering representation on the Council, then they should be
disfranchised in either Arts and Science or in Engineering.

We ask the present Students’ Council to take action and prevent
an occurrence next year. We might also add for the edification of the
governing body that, allegedly, only one-third of the Engineering Society had a constitutional right to vote as they pleased, That is, either
as Sciencemen or as Engineers.

      
 

Basketball
Dal vs.
Acadia

Thur. Mar. 19
9.00 P. M.
Dal Gym.

 

 

No. 19

 

 

MacKenzie Heads Council

With Corston Chief Aide

 

 

Council Prexy

BUD MacKENZIE

 

Election Asides

Elections for 1938 are all over and
whether you are satisfied or not depends on _ yourself. Personally, we
have nothing to say with regard to the
results themselves. Evidently the best
men got in and we stand by the opinion
of the students. But the way things
were run on Tuesday up at Studley
was enough to make strong men shudder. All the candidates seemed to
realize that the Studley vote was the
big one, for they were all there at one
time or another. Most of them had
their ward-heelers in tow and what
didn’t go on would rattle around in a
pea-nut shell. There was a recurring
refrain, too. First you would hear an
under-cover whisper, ‘‘Want any help?’
followed by a louder, ‘‘Who the h—are you?”

The Freshmen took the worst panning. Most of them didn’t know what
it was all about and as soon as a particularly green-looking one showed his
face in the door, he was deluged with
a chorus of ‘Let me help you's.’ One
Freshette was heard to say, ‘‘Who’s
votin’ anyway, you or me’?’ Another
one shreiked from a dark corner, the
north-west, if you’re interested, ‘‘Who’s
voting, me or you three guys?”

It had its funny side as well, we're
glad to say. The little light-haired
boy with his pockets full of cigars,
Someone saying, ‘How much to vote
for Walters?’ and the answer coming
back, ‘‘Well, the cigars are the same
price anyhow.’ A _ co-ed’s question,
“How are you voting’ and the pert
reply coming right back ‘For Nick,
the rest don’t count.’”” An interview
with Clary Gosse—‘‘This is the most
evenly crooked election I’ve ever seen.”
Archie MacKenzie and Doug Lyall
over in the corner tossing to see who
would’ win their badminton match.
Councillors Hurst and Gosse betting
to suck eggs on the Glee Club stage.
Later they weakened and reduced it
toa dollar. This one is far from funny
—the CROOKS up there doing as
filthy a job of electioneering as we've
ever seen. The Engineers coup, and
I'll bet they’re proud of it! They're
even boasting.

 

   
 
 
 
 
 
   

   
   
   

Election day
battle was on.

at Dalhousie and the
It was cloudy outside
and even more so within when all the
nefarious practices that went on are
taken into consideration.
terest had evidently

Great inbeen aroused for
it was the largest poll seen in these
parts for many a

cally all of Studley
trary to general expectations, while
the Forrest building .produced their
usual number of voters. In ev ery case
Medicine overwhelmingly backed’ the
winner, except in the contest for vicepresidency of the Council, where one of
their own was up.
the annals of

long year. Practiturned out, con
This is strange in
Dalhousie.

The day was featured by a remarkable amount of
more

ward-heeling, even
the general practice.
Tuesday will go down in history as the
crookedest election to date, and that is
covering a lot of ground. Wednesday
was spent listening to the moanings
of a few of the defeated candidates who
swore they had been double-crossed.
But then they always say that.

The big surprise of the day was the
poor showing made by the studlyites
who were expected to back their candidate to the last ditch. Their votes
went at about 14-9 despite the battle
put up by Roly Hurst in last Thursday’s Forum. Maybe the Hall girls
and Engineering can explain this.

The election
all the way.
Medicine,

than is

was closely contested
“Bud” MacKenzie,
Manager of the football
team for two years was elected Council
President by a small majority over
Peter Nicholson, Commerce. Mr.
MacKenzie served as Medical Representative on the Council this year.
He is a well known man, having many
capabilities, and belongs to Phi Rho
Sigma,

The Vice-Presidency went to George
Corston,popular Arts and Science student, President of that body’s Soc iety,
his class, and Chairman of the Students Gym Committee. He has played both senior football and hockey.

Medicine chose Ralph Plummer,
assistant manager of the football team,
a Phi Chi and Arthur Ormiston,
known for his debating
Phi Rho Sigma.

Donald Story, the ladies football
hero, was chosen by Law to represent
their interests on next year’s Council.
Coming from Mount Allison, his ability
is taken for granted.

prowess, a

“The Cigar Man’”—Doug Cameron
was returned by Commerce. He is a
member of the intermediate basketball
team and although new, great things
are expected of him. In Engineering
Walter ‘‘Butch’’ Lawson was given
the majority. “Butch” is a coming
man even though St. John is his home
port. Students in Dentistry showed
their confidence in Phil Christie, a
prominent Sigma Chi.

In Arts and Science, Class ’39 elected
Zilpha Linkletter, well-known girl
athlete and the other seat between
Harry Smith and Harold Reeves calls
for a bye-election. The 1940 class
backed Shirley Kirkpatrick and Bob

(Continued on Page 4)

 

The Newfoundland Club announces its last meeting of the
year on Sunday afternoon at
2.45 in the Arts building. Election of officers.

———— a

 

 
   
   

    
 

    

         

  

     
 
 
 

    

 

ee ea ee OO | MIN a eg ars . - —
tees Tea eee! Sy ee rt a : Cw ok wee) ae wv a > 77% ao | a re re Ew =
ae ; ; a \ oe ri hie S ‘ : aid a ae ay i : 2 A _ Seale ‘ a = be * a a 3
/ ‘ hd aes, coon i f iP , y - ; i i 3 ] fk an ‘ =
ee te ee Hr 7 ; ?
Z 2 q 7. ' sm P . a _
1 eae a! ” " *
74 A‘
o DALHOUSIE GAZETTE March, 4th, 1938

   

 
 
 

_

.o Vs
aes aye a

ys i
RPT a
Pee A

  

~ a
Ze ie

   
  
 

It wouldn't be proper to pass by a
meeting like that held in the Chem.
theatre last week without some serious
thought. There were present two
separate bodies, the performers and the
audience. The performers, who all
appeared to be enjoying themselves,
were from the professional schools,
and the audience was from that the
part of the campus where men are men

t

 
  
 
 

       
  
   


  
   
 

*

eg a4.

 
  

eo tpt

 

 

<i:

  

 
 

tea

       
 
 
 

  
  

__E. F. MERCHANT.

      
    

Se ame eee es |” B-0254. and the co-eds like vanilla. Incident= a roe Associates, fF | ally, it was a student forum. Well atay .. Walter Murphy. Roland Hurst. tended too, There must have been

   

nearly one hundred present. If they
are the only ones who vote on Tuesday
last, (this is last Sunday), the percent
   

Peggy Merkel.
Barbara Murray

‘John F. Finlay, B. A.
Lloyd Dalton
_ James Curry, M. A.

       
           
    
   

* hae mate x age of voters on the campus will be

Sie nee as % ‘ Sports Editor. even less than that of Canada. I do

AY ee oe _ JOHN DICKEY, B. A. hope next year there are more forums,

Pa ty ts B-5545. The one last Thursday was quite a

ws ; i Business Manager. 7 Proof Editor success. I don’t remember the one

LEAN. R. L. ARMSTRONG, B. A. MALCOLM MacLEOD. wer that. Maybe there was one
rs ae > though. |

  

+

   

B-5700. |

The Stage and Screen

Wasn't it fun at the Glee Club Friday? I must confess that after what
was said on the spot, there isn’t much
room left for coniment, but I have to
fill this column somehow, I though
Prof. Bennet was rather good. Personally, I should have given him the
Shield, except that he was too long fora
one act play. And those erratic appearances, with rather uneven treatment of subject matter would make a
better three act show. If we could
only get him to go on again for Munro
Day. A friend of mine suggested he
was the equal of Mr. Leacock. It
would appear that some one was getting a compliment out of that, but far be
it from me, a loyal Dalhousian, to suggest which or who. In the-same field,
but on another stage, or rather through
another medium, we are looking forward to something from the students
‘(note well, the studencs). | heard some
   

=

= E MOCK PARLIAMENT SITS.

ng ep ag Se night the latest Dalhousie

   

| Mock ca ent Wee rae
by the Students of the Law School. One of the oldest of the Untq oe Oe a coured traditions, this form of pseudo legislative
Mee rl ctivity has held sway at Dalhousie for many years and has
Pres be n hailed by outstanding graduates as being one of the most im___ portant institutions for the training of students in use at any colPetit _ lege. Conducted, as it is, with absolute conformity to the well| __ established rules of parliamentary procedure it is of inestimable

___-yalue in the education of prospective lawyers. While this will appear too late for the first sitting, there are subsequent meetings
scheduled for next Wednesday and Thursday evenings. We bring
this to the students’ attention for the benefit of any who might
wish to attend through a possible interest in a future political life.

    

    
   
 

=e ” ‘

 
        
 

      
   

     
    
   
   

  
   

   

‘

   
     
      

     
 
   

_—— *- The Mock Parliament is put on for all Dalhousie students, not
alone for those of the Law School, and it is hoped that many members of other faculties will attend following sessions. The fact
that strict parliamentary procedure is followed through the entire

- proceedings is educational in itself and should be of great value to|

___- proceedit are
oe student. There is no doubt that this is an integral part of

    
  

   
   

 
  
  

  

  
  
  

    

| Law Student’s career and it should also be of great interest |’ Aes 7
1ers who have a desire for a widened knowledge and to those thing eee * ae “ eee.
llow matters brought to the attention of the Federal Gov-|°% °v"" ,

eee ee te . : great advertising for the college. And
le te - : “is awa. | Bag
- ernn ent, for the same subjects are discussed here as at Ott Re es ene Had Fie potetrinene

should pay for it. Didn’t a graduate of
Dal run the government for some time?
It all proves that if you wait long
enough you will get your reward,
The Foreign Situation

Yes, its still here. Jn China the
Japanese are still defending themselves
from the Chinese. I suppose in her
own quiet way, too, Italy is educating
the Ethiopians. As well as perform
ad
‘+

ae
pre
4)
te» eed,

   

    
 

 

 
    

_ MIS-USED ENERGY.
way the floor in the large gymnasium can be
dancing after Glee Club shows is for the stuves. It could not be expected of the Glee
‘to do this job and in their hurry to dance the stuably take command, anyway. But why must
Dalhousians attempt to break up the thousandhrowing them ten or twelve feet against the walls?

a y= s
. tee 4
i me ree

 
 
 
  

ie
+
Bk

—
|
a

f
Base

0)

 
   
   
  
 
 
    
   

  
    
   

     
   
 
 
   

  
 
 
   

    
 

  
  

ntly hey do not. seem to realize that that is one of the|ing a purely altruistic service in Spain

ns why they do get back 100% of their caution deposit at the }for the underprivileged and downtrod
‘. f the year. _ Even though they “‘are sure they haven’t breken|den rebels. Or are they the governtay = 3 ; ment now? However, trust the Engnite it Se rain lish to fix everything up. Judging
_ It was rather a disgusting exhibition to watch as one small group | from the headlines, (which is all most

in particular piled up the chairs against the wall by throwing them
| at full strength. And still worse—a few of the chair-slingers had
never seen the inside of a Dalhousie lecture room and from all out- ward signs of mentality never would.

good commentators read), His Lordship is going to put everything on the
up and (to use a vulgar expression) the
up. That is to say, being a pacifist
he will not look to see if any more
troops, bound for Africa, get lost and
are forced down in Spain. Consequently Mr. Mussolini will like him.
Such are the caprices of mankind.
And then some people fall for Robert
Taylor. What has he got that the
Captain lacks?

        
      
 

  

)
he cea
Stans |

_ Another matter was brought to our attention early in the evening. A small group of undergraduates at the back of the gym
-_——s masium appeared to have come to the show with one purpose in
-_ mind—and that was to disturb the 400 people who wished to follow the plays. We admit the whole performance was too long,
| __ but Dalhousie audiences are anything but critical of student pre_-___ gentations, and all would have run off smoothly except for our
_ friends in the rear. Their mis-used energies were directed to making would-be smart remarks in loud voices and attempting to drown
_ the lines of the players. ,

   
      
 
 
 
 
  
   
  
   
    
   
    
  
  
 
  
 

i=
x

   
  
  

i
_
A

eA

  
 

To A Slide

Oh, magician logarithmic,
That hath never known defeat,
True comrade in adversity,
Accomplice in deceit;

Never failing inspiration,
Consolation aad salvation,
With illicit information
Surreptitiously eomplete.

 
  

Fd
loge
4 yf

ti

Rule

MUNRO DAY

-——«&#Pathousians will gather to honour the memory of Mr. George
et _ Munro, “one of the greatest benefactors that this University has
| sever known,’ on Wednesday, March 16.

7 _ Mr. Munro was a native of Pictou County, and taught for a
time in the Free Church Academy before leaving for New York
; Sa W ere he made his fortune as a publisher. He was the brother-inlaw of John Forrest, at that time President of Dalhousie, and it

oo Was through this relationship that magnificent gifts came to the

Ps, 25

Nothing daunted by expressions
Of appearance pessimistic,

Or convolutions serpentine,
Symbolic and statistic,

When I (if it’s esSential)

Solve equations differential

And conundrums exponential
By manipulations mystic.

Altogether this great philanthropist expended three hundred
and fifty thousand dollars in benefactions to Dalhousie—he endowed the chairs of Physics, History and Political Economy, Con_ stitutional and International Law, Philosophy and English Lit
erature, besides supporting tutorships in Mathematics and Clasics and supplying valuable bursaries for properly qualified stu
PMs

Thou art like an anaesthetic,
Thou dost deaden all sensation,
While dimly through the cursor
We behold the operation.

And even if thy skill

Leaves the patient feeble still,
We can make it what we will—
By discreet approximation.

 
    
  
  
  
 
   
   
 
  

%
: Ay

fen a Se 2 ~

~ Mr. Munro was a pioneer in this respect—no such sum had

_ ever been given to any Canadian college previously and it is note
A Fin hatit went towards the improvement of the staff and the

adents and not to theerection of buildings. The munificence of

2 ee A Dahoticie from financial disaster and set her

on her feet. He will be held in everlasting remembrance
st and greatest of our benefactors. |

ee

‘College By The Sea” which he saved from extinction,
me ‘should never be allowed to die. Every Dal1 part to play in making a success of this, Dalhousie’s
-e Day, and it is urged that no one shirk his or her
a, and only then, may we justly sing, “This is Dal-]

So when my day is done,

And this frame of mine laid low,
Clasp my hands around my slip-stick
As they clasped it long ago.

Then my face shall lose death’s pallor
And [ll grow again in valor

As I calculate the calor
Ific values down below.

   
 

      

 

eae 
—''The Manitoban,”

Precedent Set By
Dal Cabinet

The Dathousie world was recently
shocked to’ find, when Prime Minister
O’Brien announced the personnel of
his government, that he had been indiscreet enough to include no fewer
than six justices of the Supreme Moot
Court. The news came as a staggering
blow to the students of the University
which for years had boasted the finest
law school in Canada and which a short
while ago had received the plaudits
of the press across the continent for
inaugurating a course in public administration.

It was hardly believable
that the members of our Supreme Moot
Court would smear themselves with

“How would you like to try the Big Apple?”

mom, : ; eT ther h Sweet Cap!”
politics in this year’s Mock Parliament I'd rather, have ‘a Sweet Cap|

We had been accustomed to look with
contempt upon European nations where
governments control the courts, and we
had long believed it could not happen
here, To democratic minds such a
state of aflairs amounts to a denial of
civilization. Yet the Fascist states
only make their justices puppets of
the tribe in power. Here in Dalhosie we out-Fascist the Fascists and
do not just subordinate our judiciary
to our government but allow them to
overlap so that the same individuals
who make the laws are also able to administer them. It is a serious travesty
of the common principles of decent
administration and a flagrant violation
of the Canadian constitution. If the
six members of our judiciary wished to
brazenly enter the pay of their political
machines it was surely obligatory that
they should forsake their judicial
gowns before wallowing in the political
mire,

SWEET CAPORAL CIGARETTES

“The purest form in which tobacco can be smoked.”

 

Tasty Your College Ring
SANDWICHES
and
HOT DRINKS
at the

SNACK BAR

Look at it closely - your
friends do.

Dalhousie rings by Birks,
will stand up under any
scrutiny for they are honestly made, of ample weight
and fine finish.

A Worthwhile Memento
of Collige Days

Henry Birks & Sons

Limited

Sandwiches Delivered

It ought not to be forgotten that the
independence of our Supreme Moot
Court is most vital to our national
welfare. The errors of inferior courts
may always be corrected upon appeal
but from the Supreme Moot Court of
Dalhousie there can be no appeal. It
is the final court for the whole empire.
It alone has power to overrule the Supreme Court of Canada, the House o
Lords, and the Privy Council. The
honour of this august body is now at
stake and justice here is in jeopardy.

Faders Drug Store

29 Coburg Road

Diamond Merchants
Halifax

 

Girls and “Fellers”

It is well to relax at

times, and that is
In his recent book entitled ‘‘How to
Make Money on the Bench” Judge
B. A. Shyster has warned that “A
judge can not indulge in politics openly. He must appear honest if he wishes
to retain the respect of his public.”

where a_ suggestion
for REFRESHMENT
would be in order.

try

BIG
BROADCAST
OF 1938

CAPITOL

Six “gentlemen” have ignored that
advice but it is to be hoped our government will have the courage to take the
necessary steps to remedy this foul
situation and that they will promptly
be read out of their party.
is imperative,

The Green Lantern

407-409 BARRINGTON ST.
Oxidation

 

 

We’re Just
a Bunch
of Cut-ups...

at Tip Top Tailors. What we mean is,
that when you—or you—or even you—have
your measurements taken, your garment is
individually cut by hand with the tailor’s
shears. Whether you’ve got a tummy, or
whether you’re a bag of bones, or just plain
normal, we know how to surround you

with a suit that really stops ’em!

$24.95

HAND-CUT AND TAILORED TO YOUR INDIVIDUAL MEASUREMENTS

TIP TOP TAILORS

TTU338

422 BARRINGTON ST.

 

 

 

 
  
      
  
 

= Club Executive-elect Is"
_ Advised By Writer In Letter

etter A Tip To Men

The following conversation was heard
one Saturday afternoon over the tea
cups in a comfortable drawing room.
Three popular co-eds were sitting
around the fire after the usual walk,
discussing the plans for the evening.
All, apparently, were going to the same
fraternity party and were pondering
just what the evening would bring
forth, We were delighted to note the
overwhelming enthusiasm with which
they viewed the approaching 9 P. M,

[ suppose your going to-night?
Yes, 1 guess I'll have to drag myself
there. Honestly I’m so dead from
last night that I can barely move.

Oh, that’s alright, It'll probably be
so dead anyway. Remember the last
one?

I hope to heaven we get some food

 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
    
   
   
   
  
   
 
  
  
    
  
    
   
  
   
  
  
   
  
   
    
   
   
     
 
   
   
    
     
     
      
    
      
       
  
   
    
   
       
    
    
    
   
    
   
 
     
    
    
     
     
     
     
 
    
    
      
 
     
      
      
    
     
   
    
      
   
   
     
     
       
   
     
    
     
      
   
     
   
    
    
     
    
 
       
   
     
   
   
   
   
   
   

ae

Bt

 

letter is being written on Mony night, the eve of the elections for
varied student positions. Conse
, it must be granted that any

2 versed here is not directed to
; of you personally. Rather, it isa
fe sincere attempt on the part of
who has taken his place on the
side of the footlights at every Glee

presentation your predecessors

permitted during this year. The
er feels that he has no qualificato speak as a dramatic critic. He
ows none of the fine points of the
‘hespian arts. He is but one ina
ge audience that has seen, and I feel,

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
    
   
  
    
   
   
  
  
   
  

ater sense of the dramatic than
e inborn intuition of knowing that a
_ play or a show is either good or it is
a ‘bad. As such, I would ask that you)
- consider the following asan expression| *
of opinion from a member of a body tonight. I’m sure I lost pounds the
_ which often seemsto be overlooked in|/#st time. I had to drink some water
4 : to sustain myself.

your presentations—the audience.
There can be no advice given you Personablly I always take gum with
me.

s to what to avoid in the future more | Vtat
ffective than that expressed during} What I like is the generosity around
— fast Friday night's Glee Club Slow. | this town.
a A three-year course in any dramatic I hear they bought a whole lot of new
~ school could teach you no more in what |ecords last week. I do hope they've
to shun in a student presentation than got the Snake. Charmer as I’m so sick
~ enumeration of the boners that were of the Dypsie Doodle. \ think some
etter 2% Little |ome smashed it anyway.
a ae Ay : ; . .

need exists of a retrospective rehash Who are you going with?

_ of that presentation. However, it might } Oh, the usual stooge.

not all have been the fault of the pres You mean Charlie?
ent. executive but, because of their of-| . Who else but. He asked me a week
fice, they must accept most of the re-}4n¢ 4 half ahead, so what else could
"sponsibility for the affair. It was so [ say. I’m simply furious because
heros very long that when Farmers sent in Harry sakes me afterwards, .
_~ their contributed ice cream it was That's what makes me so mad. I'd
idiciy Iramanitarian desires’ were per-'| much rather be asked only a couple of
— aps Rot so concerned with the suff-| ¢4Y5 in advance. Then [ can always
ering Chinese as they were concerned be ready with excuses.

with the starving audience. For a Well, of course, if you get so many
Pe eice invitations—

‘Glee Club presentation to begin at
mt : Oh well, you know what [ mean, if
only some of those boys would realize

- eight-fifteen and end at eleven-thirty
F displays a Jack of either watches or

coe student welfare on the part of the pro- that we like good dancers for a change,

“ re ducers. tn recent years the decline of aincsagi of the Sane) Lowird, 2) oo) ANE

~~ the art of conversation has been|’ pume-andle, eee ;
ited by the oldsters. Had they |_ I think I i} take my knitting tonight.
ae a. ; I can count stitches for conversation.
_ 1 could always darn socks.
Are you sure that’s all.

rd writer did on FriThat's true. It seems to me I don’t

neard, as the v . eT
ight, the distinct revival of that
remember seeing you from the hours
eleven to twelve. They must have

the second scene of the second.
sure they would be gratified.
been au fully big holes.
Tut, tut, remember I’m a minister's

—!
ay
e

a

pulled on Friday night last.

me

 
 
  

 
 

  

does not require a sense of dramatic
ability to make anyone realize that
when an audience squirms in their seats,
= plays x and o’s on programmes with

 
 

  

  

their next seat neighbour, and amuse eR ater oe Fe,
_ themselves by conversation that they The ministers’ daughters and deacReb : ons sons

— By > are frankly bored by the stage pre— ‘sentation. Apparently, that fact was
Ps < nd overlooked last week. 
--_——s*‘Tn any event, all of that has little
to do with you of the new executive.
— That it will not be repeated next year
is your concern. You must, too, if
____- you are to escape criticism see to it that
_ plays do not run to six-day-bike-race
proportions; that the element of ser-_iousness be eliminated from all plays
iS out of respect to the apparent inability
' _ of students to enjoy anythin- above the
- level of dignified slapstick; and it
ye might also help if an announcement be
~~ made from the stage before each play
i < that will make it clear to everyone

that if the play is not enjoyed the
rs - atuidience has the privilege of leaving
.- ay the building. In respect to the latter,
such expressions of disapproval as evi__ denced Friday night will! be eliminated. ih ane
_ __ You might also see to it that tollowing . *

es, h Fe ge te hte Ehe Anyone have a cigarette?
Sees snow the students oe What do you think of the addition to

> opportunity of working off their rl ida Beatepniey One sear?

ee is Eamers ya} inetee : “ He’s very ideal, tell, tan and terrific.

or tossing the chairs around like medicine- Forget hic, he's otherwise engaged,

_ balls and testing the stability of the The path of true love never did run
It might also be smooth. Oh well, I suppose we're

-_ walls with them.
a) ite i i he students < :
quite in order to remind the stud lucky to be asked. Some girls never
put their noses inside any Fraternity.

 thatit is from their contributed money
~ that the chairs were bought and that fis ghey tiem eanenings
such damage as is done to them will be, Teh have thinks aa
'_ in the long run, paid for by the stu- :
} 2 Did you see a cat go out the door?
Oh well, all the fraternities are the
same. But honestly when you con
- dents. If it is not asking too much
would you also see to it that when your
sider them, they are not as bad as all
that.

" schedule for the season is made up
that it is stuck to throughout the year?
Wait ten years and then see. In
the meantime life is one sweet dream,

As matters stood this year the dates of
_ the presentations were as flexible as
are ’ ; ;

~ last summer's Endeavour III Rainbow}, pi. told,
2 They could not be de
Are the worst devils that ever run.”

This conversation is becoming involved, suppose we change it?

By the way, what are you going to
wear?

Oh, the usual old rag I trot out every
time.

You'd think that would discourage
them. But you know, you buy a new
dress and then they ask where is the
tricky marker you had last year? So
what are you to do?

Well, one of them asked me the other
day if skirts had got shorter this year
since he had seen quite a few nice legs
around the campus,

Don’t tell me theylike anything
around Dal. They’re just hypocrites
at heart.

Just the same, I think I'll go down
town on Monday and buy myself a

  

  
 
 

 
 

  

    

 
 

  

  

i

  

  

  

 
 

  

  

  

 
 

 
 

  

But after all we don't have to pay
for things and we do see the shows.

If | were boy and had to take a girl
out I think I’d take the veil.

No, if you were a male you wouldn't,
that's what corrupted the monastries

  

ended on.
~The writer quite realizes that advice is the easiest thing in the world to
give and the hardest thing to take.
_ Nevertheless, he feels sure that you
\ nt to make the Glee Club presentaions next year really worthy of the at- =

  

 

 

2

: This is written in the hope | much-discussed Glee Club from one
t might be of some aid in your} of the student body who feels he speaks
in that regard. Please accept|for the entire campus.

 

|people think that you're practically

ce and the backing of the stu-| the wishes for the best year yet for the |

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

in Henry VIII's time, Walker says. I
‘Everyone in Halifax thinks the Don t Be So Rude

fraternities are beds of iniquities anyway. + The Editor,

That’s because in their day, girls| Dalhousie Gazette.
were sweet young things, and papa's
word was law. : ;

Here the villian enters and gives an Would it be possible to forestall a
exposé of Dal’s underworld. further occurrence cf some of our camp
The whole things tripe, just because|US “wise guys” disturbing Glee Club

you're seen with a boy more than twice, shows?
Last Friday night two undergradu
ates (and they were NOT Freshmen,

Dear sir:—

engaged to him.

Oh boy! What a time I had with
Freddie the Freshman.

Gosh, look at the time.
dash, see you two tonight.
to have a dance with me.

O. K., you'll find me curled up on
the sofa with a mag. I feel I’m going
to be a simply thrilling companion this
evening—so interested in everything
and everyone.

Me too. We'll all have supper to- ; ;
gether, if we get any. Give me a The writer would like to inform these

ring tomorrow and we can go to Jean’s students that their efforts were neither
tea together. See you tonight. G'bye funny nor smart, nor were they ap
Incidently it was a very good party, preciated by the hundreds in the gymbut then of course, you must realize nasium, Although I would probably

that the female of the species never | US¢ Stronger language, | echo the words
mean a thing they say. of one of our more prominent co-eds

who, at the height of the stamping,
New Tory Head

screamed ‘Don’t be so rude:”’
If you print this letter, Sir, I hope
it will aid in preventing a further ocHouse of Commons, Mar. 3—When | SUFTEMSS of Friday's incident.
parliament assembled tonight the genial
Victor Thorpe newly-chosen leader of
the Conservative Opposition, was at

Yours sincerely,
the head of his party.
—_—— ——-OoO - —~
disturbance at the back of the gymIt’ll have to] asium during the show.

Now, far be it from me to stop and
scold our youthful collegians if their
fun is harmless, but Friday’s exhibition
was not harmless. A number of times
they stirred up the good old mob psychology by making noises which resulted in the actor’s voices being drowned
out,

Remember

 

A Dalhousian.
eerie neers

An Irishman obtained leave from
work to attend a wedding. He returned with two black eyes.

Boy puts arms around girl; girl puts} The foreman asked him what had
arms around boy. Boy looks soulfully | happened.
at girl; girl looks soulfully at boy. “When I got there,’’ replied the
Footwork immaterial. Requires mini-| Irishman, “I saw a fellow all dressed
mum space for execution, preferably a] up like a peacock. An’ who are you?
corner. Called the “Johnnie and|saysI. ‘I’m the best man, he says, an'
Anne.” begorra, he was, too!”

THE LATEST DANCE RAGE.

 

 

thank goodness) insisted on creating a }

 

   

    
    
 

(E

TTT TTS

Smooth, buttery totfee
in delicious milk —
be chocolate /

    
 

  

ee TTT TTT

2

to eat —

try it today /

THE BEST CHOCOLATE MADE

BEFORE BUYING

LUGGAGE or LEATHER GOODS
OF ANY KIND SEE

AELLY'S LTD.

118 GRANVILLE ST.

 

 

 

 
   
 
 

  
  
    

  

———— —
a eer ee a yo
a ay. oe ‘head oie lie Te
a we yu ¢ : .°
= *
t

i
_  #

 

       
   
 
   
 

 

3 “-- ‘ae
_ ie nae P: s
ST tee aeett  e

14 Ce. 4

; = A 9 as |
i> - 7 Hod
ia _ ;

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE March, 4th, 1988

 

            
   

cae _

- ie

SCHEDULE

BASKETBALL
Thurs. Mar. 10th.
Acadia at Dal

SOFTBALL

Med. v. Frosh
Final

oe rede Th
Frosh 16 \ : > | Med13
Froshi0

 

 

 

| Votes Polled In

Tigers All Set To|
Faculty Election

Repel Acadia

Dalhousie invaded by Acadia. Thus
will the signs read after next Thursday
when the Axemen take on the Tigers
in the last home basketball fixture of
the season. Whether the Axe or the
Claw is more potent remains to be seen
but they'll be in there swinging from
the opening whistle.
| | At their first meeting the Dal boys
|} went down 29-22 but it will be a dif2 ficult stay this time. Before, they were
= ‘playing with the roars of a_ hostile
ir ~ erowd in their ears and were buffloed.

by the tricky Wolfville back-board.
Now, however, they are performing
on their own ground with supporters
backing them all the way. That very
_ thing happened last year, if you will remember. Swamped at Acadia at the
. first of the season the Tigers came back
Be iett, strong here at Dal and only dropped
Mant out 43-40 in the third overtime period.
i, This is the biggest game of the year
Bs Sat to both teams. Of all their opponents

LAW—Storey, 50, Coleman 25;
es i Berghe oe ae x Se aes eee MEDICINE—Plummer 135, Ormiston,
ee Se cS — 137, Boothroyd, 71, MacKenna 36;
| oe DENTISTRY—Christie 24, Kronley
22. COMMERCE—Cameron 8, Renouf 6; ENGINEERS—Lawson 5,
Purves 2: CLASS ’39—Smith 125,
Reeves 186, MacLean 115, Linkletter
151; CLASS ’40—Stech 192, Mack 66,
151; CLASS ’40—Walters 192, Stech
66, Mack 59, Kirkpatrick 216; CLASS
741—Stubbs 76, Hagen 186.

 

 

For food that’s fine,
The place to dine

Is Blakeley’s Restaurant

     

. they would rather trim each other, so

" _. all the signs point to a good old “‘knock- Come one, come all,
ee down and drag’em out” grudge fight. = |
is Coach Steers has been whipping his And make a call

Above are shown the members of the Dalhousie Hockey team who bowed out to New Glasgow in League playdowns. Left to right they are And order what you
—Back Row—‘‘Red’’ Payne; Lyon Kaufman, manager; Jack Buckley; Ken Beer; Don MacGregor; Kent Irwin; Vince Ferguson, Coach; Tom
Sheehan. Front Row—George Corston; Doug MacDonald; Harvey Conn, Captain; ‘‘Korky’’ Koretsky; George Collins; ‘‘Pooh’’ DeWolfe. want.

ba: boys into shape. pointing towards this
|. erucial contest and a victory here will
; make the season the most successful
in ages. It doesn’t cost you a cent to

 
  
 
 
 
   
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

gain admittance to the Gym, so lets 2 Sa a pats st iti
ae ake sterybody Be gor 2 eddy to: cheer MacKenzie Heads Ring Activities is ms poor condition will be permitted BLAKELEY 5
? i) for Dal, (Continued from Page 1) Applications will be received to participate,
. a + - 4 > b B ’ ne : . - a rh ry. rT o
Walter, while next year’s Sophmore a a a ee Cea ss” According to reports from Boxing lhe squad meets Tuesday and Thurs- 43 Spring Garden Rd.

i : Coach A. Becker a fine turnout of as-| dav at 8.30 ; Y av at
Real tied vhs tiie’ 46 Genrue Hacen ; : ! it as-|day at 8.30 and. Saturday at 2.30,
g g gem+|| for the following managerial po- || pirants for pugilistic honors have re- Everybody out—watch or participate.

eee ae pioarn mia ea sitions : sponded to the call. The Marquis of
Aaa ee ave a ee isan Manager & Asst. Man.—Foot- || Queensbury, father of scientific boxing,
ball. would heartily applaud the group of

dent. Tom isa Law man, well known|] wy
‘i oe : anager & Asst. Man.—Basket~ ] | <; ry , Sais
for his interest in athletics should Bail, ie ae a, wae Pee RAE
exave to be a good President, .Georse ari Séanie | 5 ee ek mee ; eee Boxing
Hagen will assist him as Vice-Presi|} Manager—Ping Pong es a ett tet ee
dent, along with Walter Lawson as Rakisss Besthe |through a pace that is terrific at each
Sec-Treasurer. . : ; Manager—Wrestling.
One of the most interesting elections
occurred in the Glee Club where John
Morrison who has capabilities as an

 

Tigers Trim Reds

Rt Me ea Sie El
Re Climaxing a hard fought game with
~ sensational play in the last fifty seconds
___ the Tigers eked out a win over Wander‘ers by a score of 27-26. With defeat
_ staring them in the face, the College
team rallied and two lovely baskets by
Martin and Miller sealed up the game
in the nick of time. The game was
_. . ragged and rough for the most part but
some good basketball was shown. The
second half proved very exciting, the
score being close all the way. In the
dying moments of the game, Wanderers

| workout, work on the heavy bag, light
| bag, ropes, calisthenics and then boxManager—Badminton. Ling against the incomparable Anthony
| Minchiello. No definite date has as
| yet been set for the eliminations, but

ivory-tickler was given the responsible :
a s ; P M from indications of the workouts they
position of President. Miss Ruth i Oo ee un ay ;

. ar pt. £2 f
MacQuarrie an excellent actress, was FOC ApEY Aa ate

 

|. _ began to creep into the lead but the] given the Vj sai

hy ce-Pre : . :

as es tae eid by tight delenec SAVER: € Vi : sidential rod. The} On Sunday evening the Student As- @esth Becker expects to have the
4 rt a nse | position of Business Manager has yet | sembly will meet at 8.30 in the Mufray ae apace hod
eneke So peareicsew) aa ihe lecratad bye-dlee: 3 ¥Y|men who will represent Dalhousie at

: Homestead for the first session in pretions. paration for the Modei League to be

Doug MacKean, a debater par ex-| held on March 22, 23, 24th. All those
cellence. and a member of this year's interested in the Rowell Commission,

: ; ; . ; upon and worked out every night. Th V, l
Council was given the responsible}o; International Labour Organization, at DRUGS € aiue oO

position of Freshman Representative. | whether or not they plan to attend the| Therefore all those who are interested
Doug has just the right amount of

: een Model League, are invited to join the had better report immediately for the
emperance to handle next year’s in- study groups. time is growing short, and no one who SPOR ‘ S
fants. CHOCOLATES

ee ,
LITTLE RUTHIE POME.

the Intercollegiate Bouts on March 16
picked by no later than March 5, so |

 

The first five minutes of the game
were unexciting, many shots being
taken at the basket, but no scores made.
Miller opened the scoring with a lay
ox up shot. Wanderers quickly retali
ated by throwing in a counter. The
eae teams then kept on even terms scoring
basket for basket. Towards the end
of the half Dal managed to drop in a
eae couple of extra baskets to give them
4 the better end of 11-8 at half time.
| Wanderers put on the pressure at
the opening of the second canto and
tied the score at 11-11 in the first few
minutes. From then on it was anybody’s game, the score being tie practically all the way. Both teams fought | ——————|—|— —————
hard and the play began to roughen up. | score of 28-18 last evening. The Cubs
Smooth working defense work and good | took the lead early in the first period
ball control gave the Tigers the victory | and maintained it throughout the game.
which they well deserved. Every play-| The game was fast and lacked noth
that these men can be concentrated

IN COLLEGE LIFE

Mary had a little swing, B-7555 B-9727 FOUNTAIN IS FULLY

It wasn't hard to find, r
For everywhere that Mary went Che Wade Bros. Taxi RECOGNIZED

The swing was just behind.
Phe Manitoban.’ 5 and 7 Passenger Cars ‘

UNIFORMED CHAUFFEURS D
TO AND FROM DANCES TAKE WADE BROS. MacLeod, Balcom thin Setite a paoeeabautien eek

supplied by PHINNEYS is
also recognized, for they
handle only lines of proven

 

Limited

 

 

 

‘ee ; er gave a good showing. ing in interest. The Cubs gained the qualit

Or oes advantage over the Academy squad Wh Y N. iP :

ee INTERMEDIATE GAME. by fast passing plays which gave them en ou eed SPLADING

a Ty the greater number of shots at the . SLAZENGER

rip, | The Dalhousie Cubs, paced by high| basket. Both teams were weak in the DRUGS MEDICINES PRESCRIPTIONS TIONS C A S I N O SP ALOF

_—-—s- scoring Jack Hutton, defeated Halifax | shooting. Hutton was good on the : Cc. C. M.

i Wea teety 6-64; exhibition. game by a | ups. e or Bee Drug Store Merchandise s : HARDY BROS.

ee ou get etter SERVICE and VALUE Saturday March Sth. JABEZ CLIFF

et : = at KINLEY’S DR . are ihenifertirebs whose
Bae, Congratulations UG STORES SURPRISE HIT pataes are well and favorable
Pen The Gazette wishes to extend its congratulations to the newly OF THE YEAR! You will find Shale todd ‘on

sale at

___ elected members of the Students’ Council, and also to the leaders
Si of other campus organizations. All those put in office are, in our

-___ opinion, highly capable men and women and we have every sincere
ee belief that they will conduct themselves in the best interests of

asa". aaa and the society which they lead.

hi so ons Weare anticipating, with high hopes, an excellent year for thi
___-—s*University through the 1938 and 1939 season. The che Coes

“EVERYBODY
SING”

with
JUDY GARLAND

 

TRANSLATIONS

We Can Supply Any English Translation Published for All Languages

 

ORDER OR WRITE FOR PRICES ON YOUR NEEDS

THE BOOK EXCHANGE REG’D.

 

| ____‘ President, Bud MacKenzie, has all the qualifications nece A
LS i ' to the important position he occupies and will use them to tlhe ect Specialists in New and Used Text Books F ANNIE BRICE
___ of his ability. Again we congratulate those elected and extend to|| 390 BLOOR ST. W. TORONTO, ONT. BILLIE BURKE snete? BARRINGTON ST

  

Bee them best wishes for the coming term.

    

 
