    
  
  
  

ae

. eae ~ oo
. . . r
bir RS

 
 
 

| «\Sees Greater Day

se ts et Diese besghe. aus
a For University

eee oe: a

    
   
  
    
  
  
  
  
  
   
   
 
 

 
  
  
  
 

wees Meeotsly, smoking cig
rrettes: ‘ea haggling | over the editors
. am 1 hey were still at it at

Visioning the time in the near future
when Dalhousie will have her own covered ice rink and shed facilities on the
North West Arm for sculling, President
Carleton Stanley foresaw a greater day
for this University in the realm of true
sport as he addressed the D. A. A. C.
Letter Banquet at the Halifax Hotel,
Monday, March 7.

Loud ‘cheers greeted the words of
the President as he pointed out the
fine facilities for shell-racing on the Arm.
Shacks and shelves for the shells could
be built on the-seven and a half acres
owned by the University along the
shore-line, he said: He deplored the
fact that Dalhousie had not taken part
in the sport in the past with such a
stretch of water almost at the edge of
the Studley campus.

The speaker also mentioned the. aste phalt tennis courts to be constructed at
| Shirreft Hall. This alone, he hoped;
“| would interest more, students in athletics, for all should play sports. ‘‘T
want you to realize that some of us
knew the importance of a covered ice
rink,” Dr. Stanley told the assembly,

on ae the editorship
a Gusette a been filed. They
rere the successful combine of Messrs.
ern na d Graham and John Grant and

#
toy
a
ble
385
GFE
o
EE
st
eI
a

ona ald Buckley: ‘The first pair were
ckly catalogued as scholars and
*hilosophers while the second soon
yecame stigmatized as genuine repretives of the Fourth, Estate—in
hey were labelled as ‘newspaper’. For some reason, which it ill
s the writer, to mention, the
Stude its was ‘not in a mood
apermen as editors.

    
    

: it, a cuache which no quantities 4
sedatives will subdue.

“Honest” Freddy Barton, Henry '‘S.
_.. W.’ Ross and Henry ‘Just a minute
~_ gentlemen’, Reardon received. contrac' tual rights to operate the Dalhousie
, Gold Mine for the year 1938-39. The
= (Dalhousie-King’s Student Directory.
os Syd Gillies, a freshman, was awarded
Sa the business managership of the Dalhousie Gazette. He was the lone applicant.

Clarence Gosse, the man who aspires
to the role of Barnhill but who is as
yet only on the second rung of the
ladder, was named as editor of next
year's edition of Phares, the Dalhousie
Year Book. He, too, was the lone applicant.

Elect Officers

Last Tuesday the Arts and Science
Society, at the most hectic meeting
since its inception, had its election of
officers for the forthcoming year.
Douglas MacKean, Class '40 was elect~~ ~ ed President, with Irene Pentz, VicePresident and Jackie Cahan, Secretary4 Treasurer.
_  . . All the Studley blowhards were in
attendance as George Corston took the
chair and called for nominations for the
Presidency. Before anyone had a
chance to speak Roly Hurst stood up
and made the motion that this body
change its name and become a Studley
- Society with a view to having their
votes cast in one direction next year.
That statement precipitated many outcries especially from Jack Dacey and
‘Doug MacKean who stated the idea
Was not in accordance with the Student’s Council constitution, since the

 
    

and intimated that the day would come
rink.

when Dalhousie would have a

 

 

 

In conclusion the President stressed
the importance of sport for its own sake
in student life. he believed,
characteristic Dalhousie and
exemplified by the unfenced rugby field
at Studley. He decried the fact that
some Canadian universities make their
rugby teams a money-making unit,
with a winning squad essential to the
welfare of the institution.

D. A. A. C. President Gordon
Thompson in remarks from the chair
thanked Dr. Stanley for his remarks and
spoke of the interest the President has
taken in sport at the University. ‘‘I
have seen him on the bleachers at a
rugby game in the pouring rain,” he

This, was

of was

Arts and Science Society being listed | said, “‘when 90% of the students were
. _ in that document could not fold up| absent.”

The toast to “‘the athletes of Dalhousie’’ was proposed by Fred “Tag”
Day, President of the Students’ Counciland responded to by Bob Armstrong,
member of the senior rugby team for
the past two years. Other speakers
were Dr. Hugh Bell, Sam R. Balcom,
Honorary President of the D. A. A. C,
and Tom Sheehan, President-elect of
the athletic governing body. Among
others at the head table were George
Thompson, Barney Barnhill and Gord
ty without an amendment. The suggestion was thrown out.
Mr. Corston again called for nom- nations. Bill Logan was nominated
and after more uproar he was found
E to be ineligible because he was an En) gineering student not registered in
Arts and Science.
iE: The fiasco reached its climax when
_—-—s twelve people were nominated for the
_ Vice-Presidency. Most of these came
from Engineers who proved they were

by ‘eS _not so brilliant, after all. Irene Pentz|on Thompson, Presidents of,the D. A.
a? A. C. for the past four years.

| was chosen from a representa ative group.

Ae wey ye

 
  
 
 
 
 
   
 
  
  
  
 

 
  
  
 
  
   
      
     
   
 
      
     
     
 
 
 

 

IAN MacKEIGAN

This year the award was split between two outstanding students, Ian
MacKeigan, 8rd ‘year law student and
Edward Barnhill 5th year medical
student. lan has been a very wellknown figure in both Studley and Forrest campus. Heobtaineg a B. A. with
great distinction in ’84, M. A. in ’35
and then went into Law ’35. He has
taken a prominent part in student affairs being eqitor of the Gasette in 3637 and Law Representative on the
Council 37-38. He was also one of the
delegates at the National Conference
at Winnipeg this Xmas. He has been
active in sport as well playing basket
 

BY THE SE

  

 

EDWARD BARNHILL

ball ang has also high scholastic standing, winning the Carswell Prize in both
36 ang ‘37. He has held offices in
Phi Kappa Pi.

Barney came from Mount A. in ‘38
an\j obtains his M. D. degree this year.
He has been prominent in the political
world of Dalhousie and was also president of the D. A. A. C. for two years
from ’35-’37 doing outstanding work
for Dalhousie through that body. He
is an all-round student and has distinguished himself particularly in ath
letic executive positions. He was also

been president of Phi Rho Fraternity. ;

 

 

“My Tomboy Girl” Big Success

 

It's come at last. The show we've
been waiting for all year has finally
arrived. After a season that has hargqly been renowned for good shows, the
Glee Club has given us an effort worthy
of any amateur theatrical group.
What. your correspondent is trying to
say is that its about the best thing
we've seen on a Glee Club stage.
Maybe it stands out in comparison
with the rest of this year's shows, we
don’t know and moreover don’t give a
damn.

On analysis it is difficult to understand why it pleased so much, The
story was weak there was no outstanding songs, but what the hell, for not
since the last circus was in town have
we laughed, hooted and altogether
bothered an audience so much, as we
did on Wegnesday night.

There are important items, especially
in this production, that most people
are inclined to overlook; and that is the
work of those people in back of the set.
For the first time this year the lights
were used to their best a,jvantage.
We only saw one flaw, one spot where
they slipped, but in the act of getting
so excited over the way they were
handleq throughout we've forgotten
where it was. Congratulations, George.

The sets? We believe the sets spoke
for themselves. Only one that we can
remember (the masterpiece for ‘‘Hay
Fever’’) surpassed those of Wednesday
night. Another old-timer was responsible for those, we believe. A
brand new set of test-tubes to you,
Jack!

All of which brings us around to the
cast—the darlings! If one can say,
this person was outstanding and that
was outstanding, (and we doubt it) the
palm goes to Marion Geldert, Evelyn
Embree ang Lloyd Dalton. Miss Geldert hanged out a polished performance

distinguished by the comico-serious
way in which it was handled, and some
of the sweetest warbling we’ve ever
heard. Incidentally, by way of lighter
criticism, we likeq the way she sang
‘“Tears in My Heart’ but thought it
was a bit heavy It
was a grand finale to your Glee Club
days, Marion.

When bigger and better character
parts were written Evelyn Embree is
our choice to play them. Tillie Dildock in her hands, became the worst
fool we have ever seen, but she was
likeq. You may have your Fannie
Brices but we'll take Ev.

Good Heavens! For three years
Dalhousie has been housing a great
burlesque artist and not until Wegnesday night did she fing out. Lloyd
Dalton did just abour everything on
that stage except stand on his head
and the audience loved it. We still
have black and blue spots on our
caudal region from bouncing up and
own on the chair, (caused by painsin
the abdominal region through extreme
laughter.)

It’s possible to go on taking each
character and show why he or she was
good, but they know it, the college
knows it and we know it, so why bother. Gus and his fine voice, Lorna,
Shirley, Fran ang Joan who showed
that beautiful girls are not so dumb.
Ruth MacQuarrie who really can act!
Kay Faulkner and Bill Stevens, (who
in his strip-tease looked just as embarrasseq as he was supposed to) all
gave fine performances. To all the
rest of the cast we give our congratulations.

There are a few we would like to
single out for congratulation and those
are the three old standbys, Joe Connolly, Wally Roy and Jack Dacey.
To them chiefly goes the creqit.

and out of place.

 

Huzette

| housie athletics.

 

Mt. A.
vs
Acadia

Dal Gym
To-Night

  

No. 20

sje

Knowledge of National Cans
Is Requisite For Instructor

2,
“.

 

  
 
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
   
   
 
  
   
   

Two hundred of Dalhousie’s students
raised their voices in unison on Tuesday noon in the Chemistry Theatre,
in favour of a physical instructor capable of instructing athletes in the fundamentals of Canadian sporting games.
The occasion was the third and last
student forum for the session 37-38.

Gordon Thompson, President of the
D. A. A. C. stated his association's position ina clear and concise two minute
speech when he declared, ‘‘The D. A.
A. C, feels a man should be in the Gym
who can instruct students in the fundamentals of the different sports, such a
man is not there.”

President ‘““Tag’’ Day of the Student’s Council was in the chair at a
meeting which saw the active PostGraduate Society attain their énd by
having the Constitution amended to
enable them to get representation on
the Council. The idea pleased the
students, for almost a 100% of them
voted for the proposed amendment.

The meeting began to hum with interest when President Day, stated that
he had been asked to include on the
agenda an article which would enable
the students to have an open discussion on the Gym problem, He called
for opinions and after a short pause
Mr. Thompson stood up.

“A physical director is one who can
instruct students in physical training,”
he said. Mr. our present
physical director, deserves credit along
those lines. However, the D. A. A. C.
feels it unreasonable when
have

E.x-Dalhousian Is
Awarded Bursary

Recently Miss Alice Blanche Lewis,
who graduated with an M,. A. degree
from this university three years, ago
made an important addition to that
list of achievements.

Regarded by Prof. C. L. Bennet, as
‘one of the best students we have ever
had in the department’ (the English
department) her efforts in the scholastic
realm have been rewarded with a $1200
Graduate Scholarship offered by the
Canadian Federation of . University
Women for competition among post
graduate women students from all
Canadian Universities.

The award depends not only of evidence of great scholastic ability and
capacity for original research, but on
qualities. of character and personality
for advanced study abroad.

At Dalhousie University, she gave
evidence from the beginning of unusual
ability in all departments of study and
was awarded the following scholarships
and prizes during her course: Geo H.
Campbell Memorial Scholarship: Khaki
University Scholarship; William Inglis
Morse English Essay Prize, 1984; Governor-General’s Medal; William Inglis
Morse English Prize, 1985; Eddy Travelling Fellowship for Women, 1936.

Are Awarded

Honorary “D’s”

Korning,

 

“it should
to ask men from down town to
look after the coaching of athletes.”

“In view to interesting Mr. Korning in the various sports he was given a
written invitation to come to a D. A,
A. C. meeting, but he refused Stating
he had to go to lunch.”

Mr. Thompson went on to say that
we have a man who can only look after
r. other sports. He said it
was in the interest of the student body
to push the thing to its logical conclusion. Either get someone to look
after the sports or have Mr. Korning
“vanish thin air.’ This
greeted by stamping and cheers.

President Day then called any
Freshman to give his views on the merits
of Freshmen P. T. George Hagen,
Prexy of Class ’41, stated that it was
all elementary that they were still
doing things started last October,

A heckler from the rear asked Mr.
Thompson how Mr. Korning had been
appointed. The answer was that neither
“the D.A.A.C. nor the Senate Gym
Committee were approached about the
appointment of the Physical Director.”

The Chairman then called for a
resolution and it was stated as follows:
“that this meeting go record
stating that a capable physical instructor be employed to look after the
Gym, instruct the students in Canadian
games and physical training.”

With the exception of one man and
two girls the resolution received unanimous support.

Two of Dalhousie’s loyalist alumni,
J. MacGregor Stewart and Dr. J. W.
“Lucky” Logan, have been awarded
honorary Gold D’s by the D. A. A. C.,
it was’ announced at the Letter Banquet of that body on March 7. The
announcement was made by Dr. Hugh
Bell, who paid high tribute to both men
for the fine work done by them in DalMembers of the rugby team during their student days at
the University, Dr. Bell told of the
great interest each has taken in Dalhousie teams since graduation. Mr.
Stewart was a member of the athletic
Management committee in 1911, the
speaker said, and had always run things
‘“quietly and well.”

T.—no

into was

Munro Day |

Munro Day is over, whether
or not the sparkling Glee Club
Performance was responsible
for the words of hundreds who
said ‘‘Best Munro Day ever. .”’
is not for the Gazette to judge,
but let it be said that the
whole programme was well up
and perhaps over the usual
high standard.

If anything marred an oth
on as

erwise perfect day, it was too

insignificant to notice. The
whole schedule was carried
out fairly well, “‘My Tomboy
Girl’ was excellent, the sports
were entertaining and the
music for dancing was good.
To all those who worked for
the success of the 1938 Munro
Day and especially to Clary
Gosse and Maurice Lipton,
co-chairman in charge, we
extend our heartiest congratulations and sincere thanks.

Wish Best Of Luck

Bernard Graham of Halifax
and John Grant of Pictou
have been appointed editors
in-chief of the Gazette for the
the year 1938-39. The present editors wish their successors the best of luck in their
new responsibility.

 

 
maar al |

 
  
   
       
  
   
     
  

   

ao
i.

. 1869. “The Oldest College Paper in America”.

a

 

 

ees, Scie, 2” ak
TE STAFF.
J ; Ne ss & io .
at iwi r , - ; — he — * < 2
1. oe a

7 E. F, MERCHANT.
sy J | yr | 7 : iy 3 wd B-0254.
oD ee ms _ Associates,
A, ——- Walter Murphy.
~- John F, Finlay, B. A.
pose at Dalton
James Curry, M, A.

Roland Hurst.
Peggy Merkel.
Barbara Murray

ray g Sports Editor.

  
 
 
    
      
   
  
   
  
 
   
  
   
        
   

JOHN DICKEY, B. A.
eae ; B-5545.
> “Asst. News Editor a Business Manager. Proof Editor

   

IE McLEAN. R.L. ARMSTRONG, B. A. MALCOLM MacLEOD.
fon hs ru . B-5700.

   

tid he
iv? iL ,

‘THE STUDENT BODY HAS SPOKEN
| —s en Korning the Man is popular. Sven Korning the Physical
| ier ‘ ee cpu. This was proved at a crowded Students’
Bete Forum held in the Chemistry Theatre Tuesday, when a resolution
| —- that “This meeting go on record as stating that a capable Physical

Instructor be employed to look after the Gymnasium, and to in-_ gtruct the students in Canadian games and Physical Training
was passed by an overwhelming majority. The phrase Canadian
games" is significant. Through no fault of his own Mr. Korning
ig unable to instruct or even help Dalhousie athletes in the fine
points of the great majority of our major sports. In rugby and
ot. hockey especially he is unable to assist in the coaching. ‘True,

he is well-acquainted with Danish gymnastics, and this does help

to build up the body for the other sports, but this University ap
parently cannot afford to employ a man to teach Danish gymn_ astics alone. |

0

. "

Pe

Mr. Korning ran the gymnasium well. The majority of the
‘students were satisfied on that point. But they were not satis———— fied to have a man at the head of the gymnasium who does not
-———ihave even a working knowledge of our national games. We are
forced to have this editorial go to press before the students’ resolu| ~~‘ tion is presented to the Senate Gymnasium Committee. What

Te + that committee will say is unknown to us, but we are inclined to

a _. think they can do nothing but agree with the student body. To
‘have a Physical Director next year whe has lost the confidence of

f
4
—_

the student body—for the resolution is proof of this—could only
re salesin, dliscoiterit and perhaps more serious results. The stu
_ dents work

           
  
  
 

more closely with the Physical Director than with any

 

eee aculty member. Speaking for the good of the University we can
|. ~ - only-hope for the best. ) ~

eee spy Bel: | |

| ee “ONE TWO THREE” —OUT!

 
  

  

J ad
eee

_ -_‘Next Fall we shall hear the age-old cry of “no college spirit at
_ Dalhousie.” May we,/make one suggestion before passing these
_ columns to new hands. When there is no college spirit in the Fall,
it is meant there is no concerted rooting at rugby games, even when
the students turn out en masse. We believe that if our famous
yell of “one, two, three, etc.,’’ were relegated to a less prominent
place and a more rhythmic conglomeration of words with some in
‘genuity to their construction were placed at the top of our yell
sheets, that the Dalhousie grandstands could hold their own with
_--—s amy ~university in the Maritimes. We agree with Dr. Stanley’s
address at the Letter Banquet but would like to point out that one
thing we could copy from Upper Canadian universities would be
ae their treatment of football cheering. We are firm believers in
a tradition but some things can be carried too far. It is only tradition (or, perhaps, laziness in writing another yell?) that keeps
our “one, two, three’’ in the fore.

’

aot

a,

zs.

iY
a ay

       
 

Cap ee
Peo wey
eee et et
Ob .
os. ie

Me

eas oe
i
Pie

et Pde
ta
= 2
> eee
:

23s AVE ET VALE!

The end of another Gazette year rolls around and the Editors
prepare to pass their burden on to another pair of, as yet, unbowed
shoulders. We, like all of you, are about to pick up another pen,
that of study, and now that Munro Day is a thing of the past we
are girding our loins for the long striggle that ends on Convocation Day.

Cie _In a review of the past year we find that it wasn’t such a bad
ce  - year after all. What does it matter if the football team was una successful or that the basketball team did not win the league
_ title? Those who played had a lot of fun and got the health and
exercise from it that they expected.
The Gazette staff has endeavoured to keep the lofty tradition
_ Of the oldest college paper in America as high as before. Perhaps
_--—~-_—s' we were successful and perhaps not, but any success that we have
ay had is chiefly due to the efforts of our staff who tried in every way
~~ to lessen our load. For this we thank them.
eae There have been many changes at Dalhousie since we first
(| ——_—.. took office. We saw a new physical director arrive, the departmh bs ment of -Commerce temporarily suspended, changes at Shirreff
(eel Hall and a renewed interest in elections at Studley. There will be
more changes next year, and it is our sincere hope that the Gazette
__will handle any decisions it has to make with wisdom and good
res ju gment. We are confident in the energy and ability of our suc
  

   
   

Be. ce sors and extend to them best wishes for the coming year.

i ; 2a! ¥ Bee RR a erg: ° ;

/} ~~. _ In conclusion we wish to congratulate the leaders and execume tives of the various student organizations for a very successful
et term of office. We take the liberty of pledging the support of the

offic
|| Gazette to their successors. We entrust this paper to those who
ies be - follow us with high hopes and leave the recommendation to every

| _ student that the Gazette warrants the support of all.
ern rem su meey ht Bem Se
3 eset! Paka ; ;

a i 4
By i

 *

si >,

|\Fantasy -- Fancy )

and Fact
By Leonard A. Kitz

The Dalhousie Gazette |

This is the last number of the twenty
issues published by the students of
Dalhousie. This and the preceding
nineteen will soon be filed away to
oblivion. Before parting we should
consider that the Gazetle has had a pretty good year. The Studleyites and
the mature Forrest men reach eagerly
for the publication when it appears.
Perhaps its merely the power of print.
Perhaps, sacriligious thought, it’s to
search for errors as in the Bold Bulletin.

The editorials have been fair. There
have been no writings in the column
to my left (Editorial column in case
the gentlemen move me) that sounded a
call to arms. No editorials like the
cynical ‘‘Peace—So What’’ of Nate
Green of a few years back, nor bold attacks or searching viewpoints that used
to appear when Harry Sutherland rapped his typewriter. However that is
comparing it to the best of a decade
and by and large the material has had
high standard.

Middle Europe

The thing that struck everybody last
week in the evening meal that Hitler
had to appease Germany's hunger was
the perfect timing for such a territorial
bite. England had just backed down
to Italo-Germanic attitudes and thrown
Eden from the inner chambers where
policy is formulated. Russia was having what has grown into a monthly
purge. France with a score of parties
was trying to find one group to take
over the government. Austria was
getting ready for a plebicite that was
worded in a form antagonistic to Germany. Italy, very apparently, had
been bargained with.

What Now, Little Man?

Most observers think that now Germany has gobbled up Austria she will
continue her campaign to sweep all of
Central Europe. Perhaps. But is it
also not likely that Hitler will remain
quiet for a while. The seizure of Austria, though greeted with startled headlines was considered coming as soon as
Germany found the opporunity. But
further encroachments on CzechoSlovakia will be indubitably bring
forth a war. Of that there is little
doubt. Having now made a tremendous step for the mental, and to be fair,
the economic gain of Germany, will
she not rest for a while on her laurels?

The only thing which does not fit into
this little pattern is the question, What
when and where is Italy going to be
paid of for her change of heart towards that country which is now a province of Germany, that country that for
several hundred years was the ruler of
the Holy Roman Empire, and the gay
but powerful Austria-Hungary. My
Latin is weak but I imagine even the
Austrian Nazis with that heritage of
centuries of rule greeting Hitler with a
AVE CAESARE! TE MORTUARI
SALUTAMUS!

The Bitter Parting

In the words of the old bar room song
‘Adieu, Adieu, I can no longer stay
with you.” With the kindly aid of
lenient professors I for one will leave
Dalhousie. It has been a _ pleasant
stay. But most graduates have the
feeling that,they are glad they are
through. That feeling that the halls of
a University should be left and the cold
world taken strongly in both hands and
that which we call a living begged,
squeezed, seduced or plucked from it.

So this column ends. FANTASY
there has been much. My mind has
wandered with little difficulty in
realms of FANCY. To my critics |
charge thatthe column is built on
FACT. It’s not a bad title actually;
it gives shelter for a host of ideas.
Most of it has been in jest. I bow out
in a gesture of celestial modesty, with
Shakespearian quotation.

“Tt is a tale
Told by an idiot, full of sound and fury
Signifying nothing.”

—_—-—_O—_——_

Girl at florist’s—‘‘Have you any passion poppy?”’

Old Clerk—"“Gol ding! Just you
wait till I lay down these roses.”

“The Manitoban.”

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

Obiter
By James B. Milner

Nova Scotians are all agog to-day.
If you were to inquire, the answer would
be that they have discevered innumerable “child prodigies.” When you
think of this, and what it means for
Dalhousie, the second paragraph won't
be too depressing. In about ten or
fifteen years there may be someone in
the province so brilliant that even the
professors of Dalhousie will be amazed,
That should be encouraging to the Reunion committee. They ought to include it in their prospectus. Of course,
if child prodigies are exploited the result is often misery. But can that be
harmful to Dalhousie? I gather from
so many sources that Dalhousie is such a
miserable place it wouldn’t make much
difference. The graduates, please note,
do not make such wild statements;
they may have while they were here,
but since they have been parvled they
speak very kindly of the old scheol.
(Too bad we haven’t a school tie.
That always sounds good don’t you
think?’’)

RETROSPECT

It has been a rather droopy year,
hasn’t it? First we dropped the musical production. Then we dropped the
radio broadcast. And even Munro
Day has been kicked around as though
it were not entitled to any respect whatsoever. [I am not sure even yet that
it will come on the promised day. It
is too bad we lost that hour on the air.
It’s not as if we hadn’t had plenty of
warning. There are rumours that some
people on the cmpus knew about it before Christmas. It was shortly after
that that Pinafore was dropped. Perhaps the disease was catching, but took
a month or two to incubate. Munro
Day appears to have had only a light
attack. In fact many of the Glee Club
shows had about the same misfortune.
At Studley even the voters seemed to
have had a somewhat droopy day.
In the field of athletics we seem to have
done fairly well, considering the local
wars carried on against discipline and
dictatorship. One thing you can say
about the Gazetie is that the Drama
Critic was critical. (Not I). Of course
there is always next year. Before the
Christmas exams, its ‘‘next vear’’ and
now that we are through with that, it
still seems to be “next year.” Cheer
up, that is one thing we can say, we
don’t lack dreaming ability.

Au Revoir but not Goodbye

It was all in fun. That sounds like
the name of a song, but what doesn’t
nowadays. If anyone can compose a
sentence of not less than four words
and not more than five and not say the
title of a popular song, then surely the
students council will give that one a
“D.”" I hope no one has taken this
column too seriously. After all, no
college could be as bad as Dalhousians,
in their efforts to improve, think this
oneis. (I have run out of appropriate
Latin tags, but I think English will do.
In fact I personally think it is better
than either Latin or Greek.) As
Shakespeare says:

“If we shadows have offended,

Think but this, and all is mended,

That you have but slumbered here
While these visions did appear.”

I can only add this, if the visions have
in your Opinion been bad dreams, you
should not have been sleeping.

 

Gazette Standing

Below is the Gazette Point Standing
not inclusive of this issue. Gold D’s
have been presented to Leonard Kitz
and Archie MacKenzie and an inscription has been awarded to Edgar
Stewart.

C. Roberts, 214; R. Gold, 22; P.S.
MacNutt, 18; J. Dickey, 223; Betty
Pearson, 9 3/4; M. Lipton, 9 3/4;
Marg. Drummie, 13; Dick Murphy,
21 1/8; R. Hurst, 12; A. Mercer,
11; J. Milner, 15;T. Beeber, 5 3/4;
I.. MacKeigan, 83; Fran Martell 7;
Peggy Merkle, 5; C. W. Burchell, 5;,
Barbara Murray, 51/8; L. Raider, 65/8
B. Parlee, 8 1/5; Marjorie MacLean,
15; B. Levin, 3 3/4; Marion Geldert,
33; Joan Blackwood, 4; I. Rubins, 3;
Margaret Hall, 4; Walter Murphy
7 3/4; G. Daley, 33; Maureen Allen,
21/4; Helen Connor, 24; P. Macdonald,
2 5/8; Marg. Schwarts, 2; Ron Wallace,
13; G. Murphy, 14; L. Freed, 34; G.
Piercey, 2; L. Dalton, 81/4; G. Corston

(Continued on Page 7)

No LL LLL

 

+3

“He's trying to make a double date for tonight...
“©.K.—but tell him-to double-up on the Sweet Caps, too!”

SWEET CAPORAL CIGARETTES

“The purest form in which tobacco can be smoked.”

 

FOOT COMFORT

Of course you can dress
smartly and enjoy foot
comfort, too. Every pair
of shoes in this store
is built to conform to
the shape of the foot...

CASINO

Saturday March 19th.

“RADIO CITY

 

WITH STYLE. — Have REVELS”’

your foot carefully fit
ted. with

See our ne of aS Seal aaa ig

spring models _ price

from—-$3.95 to $8.50. Sy enact
ANN MILLER

Wallace Bros. Ltd.

Fine Footwear
Green Lantern Bldg.
415 Barrington St.

MILTON BERLE
HELEN BRODERICK
VICTOR MOORE
JANE FROMAN

 

Tasty BLAKELEY’S
SANDWICHES THE DALHOUSIE
RESTAURANT

and
HOT DRINKS
at the
SNACK BAR

express their

thanks to the students for
the patronage they have given
during the present college
year.

We have been pleased to
serve you and wish you all
the best of luck:

BLAKELEY’S

43 Spring Garden Rd.

Sandwiches Delivered

Faders Drug Store

29 Coburg Road

THE

DALHOUSIE REVIEW

This publication merits your

wholehearted support.

Subscribe Now

REVIEW PUBLISIHNG CO. LTID.,
HALIFAX, N. S.

 

 

     

 

 

 
  
   

  

The |
- With a large section of the American
_ —press 1 Northern and Southern, screaming battle, murder and sudden death
against tyranny, Naziism, and racial
persecution, it is interesting to note a
little item appearing recently on most
E _ journals of Canada and the States.
The gist of this bashful report, reduced
in most cases to a paragraph, is that
Congress, after much heated discuset _ sion, has relegated the proposed “* Anti
_——s Lynch” bill to the remote background

_-___ for an undetermined period under presgure of “more important’ matters,
. aa such as rearmament. That legislation one would think to be of the very

“aus "essence of any nation venturing to deae clare itself a democracy should not
have been enacted years ago and rigidly enforced can be ascribed to the bitter
asi opposition of representatives from the
it South, expressing, apparently, the wishseg of the majority of their electorates.
Not that the gentlemen from Dixie
smile benignly upon lynching in U.S. A.
The land of justice, as is proper, would
py 3 no doubt fall ruthlessly upon the instigators or perpetrators of any such
barbaric crime, against a white man.
- Unfortunately, in their ignorance, the
_ sponsors of this regrettable anti-Lynch
bill have classified both white and negro
under the common denomination of

humans. These misguided persons
would actually have drastic penalties
imposed upon savage, bloodthirsty
mobs which tear negroes from legal
confinement and string them up, with
out trial, on the nearest lamp-post.

   
   
    
   
  

i.

  
  
  

>
a

-—“‘Nestling unobtrusively, like most
of its kind, on the back pages of several
American newspapers of recent date
could be descried an informative item
of some interst. It described a jollification held one evening by a gather
‘ ing of good citizens of one of the Southern states. A coloured man, guilty of
offending the delicate susceptibilities

of his lighter-skinned neighbours, was
wrested from gaol—the warden being
Sates conveniently absent-by a troop of those
wet et enlightened Disciples of Freedom, the
Nee tee - Klu Klux Klan. He was then escorted
Ros _ toa duly prepared pyre of blazing logs

ee aun =
ee a

~

and flung alive into it. And a good

| time was had by all—always, of course,

_—s excepting the negro. But he doesn’t

i count, anyway. His offence? While

e intoxicated, this fiend in human form

had committed the heinous crime of

deliberately and violently jostling a
white woman off the sidewalk.

Tite eS Indeed, all these blacks appear to

i be possessed of a satanic streak. Only

i - Jast summer, another walked into the

--—s&kitchen of a white man’s home and de
i manded a meal, in insulting language,

from the lady of the house. Happily,

both husband and a shot-gun were up
stairs at the time. The body of the

negro. was removed shortly afterwards.

In neither of these cases, nor in the

great majority of similar instances, was

the slightest real effort made either

% to discover the identity of the princi
pals, or, when this was known, to visit

upon them any retribution whatsoever,

save perhaps, a judicial reprimand and

a small fine.
+ Over practically the entire territory
popularly regarded as the ‘‘South"”—
) |) as distinct from the South-West with

its radically different views—there hovers, in fact, an oppressive pall of civic
— and state legislation so tyrannical,
unjust, and racially-bigoted as to be
almost incredible to a Canadian or a
citizen of the Northern states. In
_ many cities, negroes are not permitted
to use the same trams as whites; negroes
are restricted to one side of the thoroughfares; negroes’ voting privileges in
civic and state elections are in a number of regions so attenuated as to be
virtually non-existent.

7

as
»

Not that the Federal authority can
itself be accused of condoning such vio_ lations of the very spirit of democracy;
by the Constitution, of course, such
ia - matters as the rights of citizens, in
reference to local affairs, fall almost
exclusively within the domain of the
particular state. Nor should the ex-__ istence of an intelligent, liberal-minded
minority in the South be disregarded.
Nevertheless, it remains a fact that
7 below the Mason-Dixon line the mass
: of the population support and even en. courage actions, measures, and legis| -—— lation as retrogressive and dictatorial—
ss in’ regard to negroes—as any created
and administered against religious,
racial or political bodies by European
governments.

 

 

GEORGE CORSTON

Here is the man who will substitute
for President-elect Bud MacKenzie. George is well-known and
really needs no introduction, but
we present his picture for the benefit of those who have never met this
quiet-mannered gentleman from

Arts.

Mock Parliament

Opens With Pomp

With traditional pageantry and ceremony, though without black horses and
gold carriages, Dalhousie’s Mock Parliament assembled last week for the
first time in two years. Mr. G. W.
Kyte, K. C., honoured the Law Society
by acting as His Excellency the Governor- General and Mr. Leonard W.
Fraser officiated as speaker.

No fewer than 6 high silk hats and
several bowlers gave an air of dignity
to the occasion while several well-decorated full dress suits provided the comic
relief.

Professor Cowan as speaker of the
Senate despatched the Gentleman Usher of the Black Rod to the Commons
inthe Munro Room. The latter knocked three times on the door of the Commons entered and bowed quite awkwardly three times, nervously proclaimed that the Governor-General desired
the attendance of the members in the
Senate Chamber, repeated the awkward bows, and clumsily backed out.
Members then went into the Senate
Chamber and His Excellency read the
speech from the throne.

Ex-Conservative leader Parlee walked to and from the Senate Chamber with
one of the lady members hanging on his
arm.

Upon the return of the members to
the Commons the Speaker read telegrams from Prime Minister King and
Premier MacDonald and loud applause arose from all parties.

The Prime Minister then introduced
Bill Number One, to eliminate the roll
call and nine o’clock classes. It was
passed without debate.

The address in reply to the Speech
from the throne was moved by Ben
Karrell and seconded by Dunc Chisholm.

Mr. Thorpe, leader of the Conservative Opposition opened the debate.
The Rowell Commission became cone
of the objects of his attack and the
House rocked with laughter from all
sides when he humourously parrotted
R. B. and accused Professor MacKay
of being one of the worst partisans in
Canada. One of the most precious
moments occurred when Mr. Thorpe
reminded Labour Minister Kitz that a
gory-coloured necktie symbolized the
overthrow of governments. Mr. Kitz
waved his hand majestically at the
scarlet of the speakers gown, and grinning his inimitable grin of self-satisfaction, declared immodestly: ‘The
Speaker and I are one.” “Order,

(Continued on Page 7)

 

That Canadians can have no adequate conception of the colour-problem
confronting the people of the Southern
states may be true. That southern
negroes are at present, on the whole,
entirely unequipped to assume the
full burden of citizenship may likewise
be correct. Yet the remedy employed
by a democracy under such conditions
should surely be the education, training, and preparation of the coloured
American for his eventual reception on a
basis of equality. And such is not the
process being followed by the Land of
Dixie.

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

May Be I’m! Wrong-Who Knows

 

Time: Five minutes past the hour.

Scene: lecture room.

A low drone pervades the classroom
and all eyes are fastened on the door
with mingled expectation andfear. At
the exact instant when the witching
moment of seven minutes past the hour
arrives, some bold and daring youth
leaps to his feet with a triumphant:

—Seven minutes. Who's going?”

I rise, along with several others. I
do this invariably, day after day, although I have never yet been known to
venture as far as the door.

—"“Okay, c’mon, what are you waiting for?”

I glance around, irritably, at the wild
gestures the class is making at me.

—‘Scared, huh?”

At that opportune moment I meet
the professor's eye, blush furiously,
give him a forlorn and sickening grin,
and sit down, mumbling, ‘‘Why didn’t
someone tell me?”

Before the lecture begins there are
several preliminaries to which the lec
turer must attend. The window must
be flung wide open, at which several
of us shiver meaningly; it must then be
shut, at which several others breath
stifled breaths; it must then be cautiously raised several inches, at which
all are satisfied. The blind must then
be lowered, so that no speculations on
the delightfulness of the warm, sweet
sunshine are allowed to cause our
thoughts to wander from the course
ef the lecture. The electric lights must
then be turned on. The proper degree of discomfort having been attained, the lecturer proceeds to inform us
on what he is about to lecture. Years
of experience have taught me this is a
safe guide—he will deal with aspects
of human life and thought imaginable,
with the exception of the topic he has
mentioned.

It is now twenty minutes past the
hour, and the lecture is about to begin,
I open my notebook, remove the top
from my pen, and write the date with a
great flourish. After having caricatured the professor, the peculiarly shaped head of the person sitting in front
of me, and various other objects of
interest, I am ready to begin that
strange and mysterious process known
as “taking notes.” I sit back expectantly, and I might add, almost
breathlessly.. I am about to learn
something. The great store of my
knowledge is about to be increased.
Alas, I spoke too soon. The lecturer has by this time worked his way
around to that trite and hackneyed
subject, ‘‘What is wrong with Dalhousie?’’ Nevertheless, I breathe a
sigh of relief, close my notebook, replace the top of my fountain pen, sit
back and listen eagerly. Hackneyed
though it may be, there is no subject
which fascinates me more, being of the
opinion that there is nothing wrong
with Dalhousie except too much criticism. What strange new fault was to
be attributed to our fair college by the

The lecturer proceeds as follows:

“The real trouble with Dalhousie
is that you do not have enough real,
honest-to-goodness nonsense.”

I nod my head adimiringly, he has
the right idea after all.

“You never rise to the heights of the
sublime, so that you cannot descend
to the depths of the ridiculous.” This
is getting above me. I wish he would
tell us what kind of fun he recommends.

‘There is entirely too much dancing.”’
(Deep groan), ‘Far too small a number of you enioy the winter sports, or
take time off to appreciate the beautiful scenery for which Halifax is noted.
How many of you, for instance, have
been to Mount Misery?”

A solitary hand is raised. I myself
had been there once, but something
fine and noble inside me, prevented me
from raising my hand. I had not gone
there becuase I appreciate the finer
things in life. I had been forcibly
dragged there by some friends, and, as
could be expected, it rained when we
got there. I have never felt more
wretched or stupid in the whole of my
existence than when, cold and shivering, I stood on the mountain, and
mumbled oaths at the gorgeous panorama lying before me. My mind wanders. I think of the last gym dance.
How divinely beautiful did we waltz
to “‘Dalhousie Dream Girl.” During
that dance I felt much nearer the sublime than when I stood on the heights
of Mount Misery and swore. Poor
professors From the bottom of my
heart, from the depths of my scul do I
sympathize with them. They are such
remote people. How little theyunderstand human nature

I awake with a start. Again I remove the top from my pen, again
open my notebook, and await something worthy the honour of entrance
into my notebook. The bell rings.
This is the signa! for the lecturer to
recall what was supposed to have been
the topic for the lecture. He then proceeds to make several remarks about
the subject, which would rival the
greatest names in English literature,
or it may have been something else,
but I’m not sure, for their clearness
and insight. Everyone else writes
furiously, but 1am adamant. It is absolutely against my principles to take
notes after the bell has rung. I fidget
for several moments in order to make
my seat creak. I look very meaningly at the professor, but he continues,
blissfully unaware of the glances cast
in his direction.

When we are all worked up to the
stage where we are considering what
desperate means to take to bring our
torture to as swift a conclusion as possible, he closes his book with a loud
bang, nods his head briefly, and there
fellows a mad rush for the door.
About me there are such remarks as
“Damn’ good,” “He sure has the right
idea.” I shrug my shoulders and hurry
down the steps. Maybe I’m wrong.

do

 

 

A Letter To

There was a very enthralling subject
discussed at Dal all last week. It was
about the lack of interest taken by
Studley studentsin campuslife. Every
body has had a great deal to say—in
fact, a great deal too much has been
said, but NO CONSTRUCTIVE SUGGESTIONS HAVE BEEN MADE.
The so-called apathy of the students
starts with their Freshman year. This
is due, mainly to the way in which new
students are received at Dalhousie.
Only a very feeble éffort, if any, is made
to introduce the Freshman to the different societies on the campus. It is all
very well to say that notices are given
by the different organizations of their
meetings and that all Freshmen are
cordially invited to attend. It takes
more spunk than most new students
possess to go barging into a meeting
to which they have not been personally
invited. If, however, each society on
the campus appointed a freshman representative whose job it was to see
that all Freshmen interested in his
organization turned up at its meetings,
I think a lot might be accomplished.
This year every new student filled out a
form given them by the Initiation
Committee and one of the questions
asked the student was what organization, whether Glee Club, Sodales,
Gazette, or what have you he was interested in. The Freshman Repre
The Editor

sentatives from the different societies
could find out from this form what
Freshmen were interested in what.
Once the Freshmen snowed an interest
in some society by coming to its meetings it would be that organization's
responsibility to see that its new members were given something to do. No
man will take an interest in any Universiy when he is not responsible for
any job, however small, and where all
the work is done for him. If the Glee
Club can’t find any work for its new
supporters, I suggest that they make
them make new shields for the gym.
The Gazette might make its helpers responsible for taking the paper down to
the twelve forsaken Meds. The D.
A. A. C. might make their gang of
Freshmen get out and do a little cheering at the games. If these organizations are not strong enough to absorb
their quota of Freshman and get them
working, well.. .. Every year the Freshman class brings to Dal a new wave of
enthusiasm, all anybody has to do is
to utilize that power

The New Enthusiast.

Editor’s Note—We quite agree with
ideas expressed in this letter, For
“The New Enthusiasts’ information,
the “twelve forsaken Meds” have been
receiving 12 copies of the Gazette for the
past month and a half.

\| MULTIPLANE
LOR }\ow.o7F

 

Page Three

 

Your Future Is

IMPORTANT

There is room in the life insurance profession for

intelligent, well-educated men, to sell **‘Security’’ to
Canadians for their families and themselves. If
considering such humanitarian work as a career
you would do well to choose The Mutual Life of Canada.

Our nearest Branch Manager or the Head Office will
be glad to give you particulars regarding the Company,

its history and policies.

, pUTU CANADA
WATERLOO, ONT.

HOME OFFICE _ Established 1869

INSURANCE IN FORCE OVER $540,000,000

 

Your

ADVERTISING
MANAGER

informs us that this is the

Coming

FRIDAY,
March 25th

A MIRACLE last opportunity we will have
OF MOTION this season to tell readers of
AND EMCTION... Disney's the GAZETTE what we have
first full-length production! to offer,

May we therefore just remind
you that we offer
**A Complete Musical
Service’”’
and
“SPORTING GOODS
of Finest Quality”’
Fair Prices
and

Prompt Service

All in marvelous

456-460 BARRINGTON ST.

 

Drink FARMERS’
CHOCOLATE MILK

The Best 5 cent Drink available

Made with full cream milk and the finest

cocoa obtainable.

 

*“Taste The Difference’’

SFarmers’ Limited

HALIFAX, N. S.

 

 
March, 18th, 1988

A Fantasy

A Gazette Short Story

   

 
 

THANKS!

me CS, es Bec Xs “The ay to. follow is from an arV , Press| ‘ticle written | by Professor G. V. Doug
| las for the Alumni news and which he A young man went striding through

 

 

  

 
 

is -st Ariat
a stages
zee |
bof the | Sudan|

n of great uni- |
to his native}
; bankruptcy, with the

orca cea in Ameri
   
 
  

 
   

— Se

  

tna he is not ikea
that you or | rE have ever met in ordinary.
_ life. ‘He is at one and the same time
ia 4 ‘an absurd fantasy and a very real
i ae S pe n. For that is how he was painted. icant himself tells us that
‘Ulysses is a composite character, fash
7:

. a after living models, plus a certain
dit a of what Rodocanachi conve ' ee to be essentially Greek spirit.
ay “The result is, as E mentioned before,
irate evable.

E oe = degree to which you believe the

e aits of | ‘Ulysses to exist in one man,
ae it Phaieve, inversely affect your likaa ing ‘of the character. The thought of
ever actually meeting such a man ina
business deal is an uncomfortable one
to. the | Anglo-Saxon mind. Ulysses
is too ruthless and single-minded ever
to. be enjoyed as a reality. But if you
consider Ulysses to be primarily unbard) “real, then you will like him. He is fas
ee just 80, long as he remains on
Ge pepen The ‘minute you think of him
terms of mutual relationships, much
of his attrac ness wanes. For inee L liked ‘Ulysses more when he

| was a bootblack in Athens or diving
o a r ties in the bay of Argostoli
ee when I thought I detected traces
a te Basil Zaharofi in his life among

  

¥
Adak

 
  
   
  
   
 
  
 
 
 
    
  
    
     
   
  
   
 
     
   
   
    
    
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
    
  
 
 
 
   
  
  
   
  
 
  
  
   
     
    
    
  
  
   
     
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  

 

rae,

 

oe Spataeannch? s_selfsite sea citeh, the Greek spirit
terprét it for the rest of the

nd-there is a subtlety of dehenticity about this story
ysses that impresses even an unSe ye server with its accurate
> hwith casual strokes which shed sudden
and “unexpected high-lights on the
re "character, of Ulysses in particular, and]
iE ae ; “of all Greeks in general. Its obvious
Peet. _ sincerity leads one ‘to believe in the
eB BS eer of this portrait. But despite this
a it is not easy to say how well or how
=F atounaeely Rodocanachi has accomplished his aim. It is easier to. say
; what he has done, and to repeat his result. For Kodocanachi (incidentally
e a Greek himself), the best Greek is a
Te nationalistic being, one who acquires a
eae large fortune abroad and who returns
home to spend it on his family, his re| ——_ fatives, his native town and Greece.
ee If he doesn’t return rich, he is a failure
fet and is reviled by all his neighbours.
Of course, even if he does return wealthy
he is still reviled, for praise comes hard
in Greece. The difference is that the
more successful he is, the more vile
ae are the epithets cast his way, because,
ee in Greece, the highest compliment is
the most unsavory term, He flatters
‘best who is most obscene. That trait
smacks of a certain saltiness only to be
- found in the air of maritime nations.
A Greek must never deny the superior_ ity of his part of Greece over all other
_._ parts and it is part of the national tradition for every Greek to assert that all
i other Greeks are doomed to an unprintable failure by reason of their
* unprintable « origin. On the other hand
pi oe he must always defend the same neighi ovine against reflections cast upon
<s ‘them by any foreigner. The Greek
Ne Bi cerns. is a perfect example of family
Pe tite played on a bigger stage.

‘hese, then, are some of the impres< Song obtained from a reading of ‘“Forever - Ulysses.” ‘Whether you believe
: spirit of the story to be true or not,
hether you admire the character of
 Yiyeoes. or not, I think you will be at-]
ted by this book, by its air of dif-}
e, and by the sense of satisfac
-_
=

 

ser it place is. ae place

. cal off bythe: side o

es =)
me MA

z ects granted permission to use in the Gaext zette for those students who did not
n |see it in its previous form.

rd gain knowledge and practice and_per
 

 

The whole picture is painted |

aia, have ‘a Barrel: chest.

 

“There are possibly three types of
men and women who come to a university. First of all, there are those
who come for a specific purpose, to

haps wisdom in some particular line of
endeavour. Secondly, there are those
who come not knowing the paths
which they ‘ultimately will wish to follow—these are searching for those
| paths which seem to them most suit‘lable and possibly profitable. Lastly
| there are those who come (or are sent)
‘to have a good time and for the pursuit
|of pleasure and who pick up a certain
amount of culture and knowledge may
make them less barbarian.

“For the first two classes the question of employment is most imperative.
The real world about us is the theatre of
action, the vision of that world, as
gleaned by the young observer from
the university portal. may differ from
reality. The binding of the ideal with
the real is the combination most likely
to yield successful results, Again the
question of employment may have
another significance. There are many
who come to the university with inadequte financial backing. Employment or non-employment may mean
the continuance or non-continuance of
their courses at college.

“For the third class the question of
employment should be thought of more
in the light of a diet advised by a
physician to allay some ailment which
may become chronic.

“Tt is to meet these needs that an
Employment Bureau was started at
Dalhousie. The Bureau is in the hands
of a Committee appointed by the Senate.

‘We do not ask for preference at the
expense of the product of other universities but we do ask that our men
and women be given equal chances.”

To date 20 applications have been
received by the Bureau asking for
varied positions. Some of these, who
so wish, will be placed on the ten man
staff of ,geographical survey going to
Newfoundland.

There are four positions open for
men who must be 28 years of age or
over. In addition there are four men
definitely wanted for summer work in
connection with a transport company.

Students were asked to register
early at the bureau. A few did so, but
not nearly as many as the committee
had hoped for. <A few did so, but not
nearly as many as the committee had
hoped for. However, there is still
time and any applicant is assured
that his or her tender will receive
every consideration.

 

Ain’t It Grand

Four years ago, I entered the University, and since then I have spent a
little short of 28 months, come this
April, within its walls. What have I
done?

Well, to begin with, I smoked 17,000
cigarettes, drank 740 cups of Tuck
Shop coffee, and 650 glasses of beer.
I bought 65 books, 40 of which I subsequently resold, and went to 460 lectures, 350 of which were not worth
listening to. I came into personal contact with 10 professors, 3 of whom were
teachers in the best sense of the word,
and 5 of whom I considered more stupid
than myself. Three of my 20 courses
I passed by learning the notes of a
friend taken more than 5 years previously. The profesors had not improved, or even changed, their lectures
by so much as a single word. Three
hundred examination questions iwere
set before me in answer to 280 of whic
I was to regurgilate a nausceous mass
of partly-digested lecture notes,

More valuable and vastly more interesting were the 100 “‘ball’’ sessions
I took part in. In the course of these,
argued for communism 50 times, for a
controlled capitalism 50 times, proved
there is no God 99 times, and made,
also, 3000 very wise remarks concerning. women.

From the library I drew 300 books,
lof which 60 were reference books, and
‘| the rest chosen with the selective care
a magpie might use in a five-and-ten]cent ‘Store. I resolved to read the

| (Continued on Page 7)

 
 
   
   
 
 
 
 
   
   

   
   
   
   
   
 

GORDON THOMPSON

 
   
 
  
 
   

“TAG” DAY

Above are shown Fred ‘‘Tag’’ Day and Gordon “‘Dictator’’ Thompson retiring Presidents, respectively, of the Council of the Students and
of the D. A. A.C. Both these gentlemen have had the good of Dalhousie

at heart, ane have worked tirelessly to further her interests.

We wish

to congratulate them for jobs well done as they hand over their staves

of office to their successors.

D.A.A.C. Meeting

The semi-annual meeting of the D.
A. A. C. was held in the Halifax Hotel
at 6 P. M. Monday, March 7th before
the Letter Banquet. About 100 members were in attendance and several
of the items on the agenda gave rise
to spirited discussion.

After the reading of the minutes,
President Thompson announced that a
motion which had been passed at the
last semi-annual meeting giving girl
students the right to attend D. A. A. C.
meetings and which appeared in the
minutes had been declared unconstitutional and ultra vires and was thus
of no effect. Mr. Thompson did not
disclose what court had delivered the
ruling. The minutes were then accepted.

Two amendments to the constitu
tion were then put before the meeting

by the Managing Committee dealing
with Tennis awards, In the discussion which followed the raquet wielders strongly opposed the proposed
changes in the system of awards on the
grounds that a player would be required to play more matches to win a
D than could be played in the short
season. The supporters of the amendment contended that it would not be
at all impossible to play the required
number of matches and that the amendment was designed to further tennis at
Dalhousie by insuring greater efforts
would be made to arrange tournaments.
The first amendment was accepted by
the meeting without change and a

(Continued on Page 5)

i a

Dalhousie

Thanks for the memory

Of library lights and noise,
And Helen Connor’s poise,

Of Walter’s giggle, Cameron’s
And moments with the boys
Thank you so much.

jiggle

Thanks for the memory

Of rainy afternoons

Of haunting Phi Delt tunes

And hockey trips and burning lips
And Bennets tests and moons
How lovely it was.

Thanks for the memory

Of dances minus me

One night you lost my key

You may have been a headache
But you had a comfy knee
How lovely it was.

Many’s the time that fack’s jested
And many’s the time that Kirks kidded.
Do you think it would last if we did it?
Twice they're having fun

And no harm’s done

How lovely it is.

Thanks for the memory of 1938

Of Elections worked by Fate?

Of Glee Club shows and
beaux

And the best year up to date

So thanks Dal so much.

penniless

——_o-——_—

Shakespearan Shades.

“2 B or not 2B?’’ murmured the

drunk as he stood before the apartment.

 

MILESTONES

RUN TOGETHER

All the milestones are as one when you

travel by Telephone.

Your voice spans the

the miles many times in a single conversation.

Yet the use of Long Distance is simplicity

itself and saves time, money and energy.

Night and Sunday rates are very inexpensive.

For convenience. economy and speed travel

by Telephone.

|
nation in the fraction of a second, flies across
'
|

Maritime Telegraph & Telephone

 

Company, Limited

the deserted streets of a small town.
It was a winter night. Overhead, the
stars, blue in the intense cold, shoneforth from the black cloak of the heave
ens, The little snow that was on tht
ground was blown this way and that
by the bitter north wind that whistled
and whined around the corners of the
streets. An overcoat was little protection against the biting force, so the
man’s body was cold as well as his
heart. His spirits might indeed be
despondent for he had no real friends;
he had no rel place in the world; he
had no talents. He only had ambition
anda longing for, and an understanding
of, the greatest things of life. In the
place from which he had just come he
aad left friends, acquaintances, but no
comrades. They would not notice
that he was gone, they did not need him
to make their evening more pleasant,
he thought bitterly. And why should
they? He was awkward, queer fellow
who could not talk freely with people
and was self-conscious through egoism
He realized this himself and it made him
more self-conscious than ever. When
he realized that, this realization made
matters worse and it sank him to the
depths of despair.

Gradually the beauty of the evening
cheered him. He loved the lamplight
on the white snow at the street corner,
the black outline of a tree against the
winter sky; the lights from the brown
wooden houses shining on the streets—
representing to his imaginative brain
births, murders, lovers, death, pain and
cosiness.

(Continued on page 7)

and
give

For your confidence
patronage, Birks
sincere thanks.

this
extend our best
for the

May we also, at
time,

wishes to all
future.

Henry Birks & Sons

Limited
Diamond Merchants
Halifax

DRUGS
CHOCOLATES

FOUNTAIN

 

MacLeod, Balcom

Limited

Are YouA
Problem Child

When Tip Top’s hand-cutters get a scissorhold on your measurements—man, oh man,
what they just can’t do for your figure!
The little fellows seem to take on added
breadth and height and the big guys have
their best points brought out. Now, you
may present no special problem, but it’s
nice to know that the men who tailor your
clothes are ready, willing and able to

make you what you’re not!

TTU438

$24.95

HAND-CUT AND TAILORED TO YOUR INDIVIDUAL MEASUREMENTS

TIP TOP TAILORS

LIMITED

422 BARRINGTON ST.

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Sex Education
From Western

 

7
*
ai

*

a
.

fe

  

A This article, I believe, is destined to
_ be the most widely-read of this series.

As it appears in print in various Uni"versity Press, eager students will grab
it and lap it up. What a comfort it
“would be to my vanity if the reason
lay in the charm of my style. But no,
. it is merely that the word ‘‘sex’’ is in
; the title, and sex is a first-class draw
ing card,

Ah, say the protagonists of sex eduPs ‘cation (especially at Queen’s. I sup>... - pose). there is the best argument for
2g sex education. The majority of stue _ dents need instruction. It is scientific

pei curiosity wich attracts them to the
magic little three-letter word. .
> ‘True, true, every word of it. The
'_-meed for sex education is very great.
a Havelock Ellis saysso. Bertrand Russell says so. A lot of people who went
to Winnipeg last Christmas said so.
os “Surely, all these people could not be
wrong, especially when the need is so
obvious.

"Where the sex education agitators
i are wrong, I believe, is in saying that
23 x ation is in our
o> | the place for sex education is
university courses. In support of this
ae, belief, they bring up the argument that
‘the main purpose of a university Is to

ry
a>

7
oe . . *. >
- fit the student for life, that sex is an

- important factor in life, and that

|

 
 

  

 

  

i

   
   
  
  
   
  
   
  
   
   
 
  
   
 
  

    
    
  
     
  
    
  

“ww

 
  

yA

ae

©  therefore....The flaw in the logic is
a that by the same argument a univer” sity would be the place for the teach"ing of children to walk and eat and talk
and perform other functions that people
b> he who have never taken psychology call
instinctive.
-- The obvious place for sex education
: is the home. However, it is easy to see
_ that unless an unlikely change takes
it place in the attitude of the average
"parent, little hope can be held for this
ideal condition, Just where it should
"be taught, I, not being an expert of
- Pray kind, cannot say, I simply wonder how people have managed all these
i centuries. The fact that the world’s
_ population has steadily increased seems
to indicate that some sort of workable
© compromise was reached.
____-[t is interesting to observe thts rising
. _ demand for sex education, That it isa
demand of the present generation is
- somehow rather typical. It is typical
of the solemn attitude that this gener
as or: ;
- ation adopts toward so many things

  
    
   
   
  
   
   
 

  
    

 

 
  
 

 

   
    
    

o

 
 
  

 
 
   

  
 
 
 

eo tity. |

| Toa man of the eighteeneth century
gt: ‘the sight of bespectacled and solemn
= young men and women peering into

Havelock Ellis and discoursing gravely

fabout D.H. Lawrence would have been
highly amusing. Petronius Arbiter,

Boccaccio, Rabelais, Voltaire, Smollett,

Thorne Smith, and even James Branch

Cabell, are gentlemen of the old school

—they realize that there are some

things that are very important, but

that their importance vanishes when

you take them too seriously. D. H.

Lawrence, on the other hand, takes the

whole matter as seriously as Calvin did.

with the same result—unhappiness.

_ There is undoubtedly a need for sex
education. The danger is, however,
a i that if the sex educationists get their
___ way we shall soon suffer solemnization
of everything else in this world that
brings joy and amusement.
ay Surely there are some things that
don’t need to be intellectualized. D.

Sod Lawrence, I realize, protested
_ against this intellectualism, but his

Sree wee . . ae acs
ee ase very revolt against intellectualism was

i

- __ im itself intellectual to an unhealthy
hes degree. His “ecstasy” was a thing of
the mind, in spite of himself, His
ay _ ideas were perhaps correct, but it is
"impossible for anyone who has the
ee. temperament to think out such ideas
‘to put them in practice.

at a

; .
—

   
 

   
 
 

 
  
 

  

  

  
 

    

 

 

    

. oie It will be interesting to see if the
a te Ae. . iG % ‘
_ sex educationists get their way, and

‘ _ what the results will be if they do.
an

  

i

 

Advertising

  

Ae =| ae

By e It’s easy to write stories for advertis«= ifg,. especially for the illustrated ones.
P: For example:

  

 
 

  

First picture: A very thin girl is
_ Quietly weeping into her lunch alone.
= is alone because she has acne, rand hair, lifeless finger-nails, tattle-tale

th, cosmetic ears, and is not fresh,

n ever having been dated. She is cry_ ing becaue everybody in the office got a
se, except her. Nobody likes her.
ey laugh when she sits down. They
she has A. A. (antidiluvian arm
  

    
 
     
      
      

  

  

 
 

 

To “D” Or Not
To she

By Prof. C. H. Mercer

The Dalhousie: badminton players
are not very good politicians: they
would have had a “D” long ago,
if they had only known how to go
about it. .

All you have to do is to get a D. A.
A. C. meeting scheduled for 12 noon,
when the football, basketball, and ice
hockey plavers are not looking. The
Chairman rises and says, “All those in
favour of badminton being made a
Major Sport please stand.’ You get
up on your legs along with two-thirds
of the other fellows (invited, persuaded,
cajoled, bullied or otherwise dragged
into the meeting for the purpose of
supporting the motion), and the trick
is done;

Is that all? What next? Next, you
enter an all student team in the City
Church Badminton League, and
play against the Anglican Church,
the Baptist Church, the Presbyterian
Church, and the United Church of
Canada.

I know what you are about to ask
me: Who was it that started the McCurdy Cup badminton games in January, 1933, and invited Clyde Sperry,
the Dalhousie law graduate and John
Dobson, the graduate in dentistry,
and Minnie Batt and Annie Longard,
graduates in Arts and Science, and
other alumni, to join the Dalhousie
McCurdy team, and thereby make it
constitutionally impossible for the D.
A. A. C. to award a ‘D” to students
who have played on this combined
Alumni—Student McCurdy badminton
team?

Who was it that told Manager “Spec”
Murray in January, 1933, that he
would rather be a doorkeeper in the
Dalhousie Gymnasium than play on an
all-night game inside a Church Hall?
Who was it that persuaded the Hon.
F. B. McCurdy to present a Trophy
for competition between the Dalhousie
Student-Alumni Badminton Club, the
Halifax Badminton Club, and _ the
Militia Officers Badminton Club?

To be sure, the McCurdy Cup series,
or as it is officially called, the Haliax
City Badminton League, has stimulated
the interest and increased the quantity
and improved the quality of play, but
at what a cost! It barred the D. A.
A. C.D,” If you have read the D. A.
A. C. charter, constitution and byelaws, you may know that to play on
the same team as an Alumnus tpso
facto disqualifies the Dalhousie student
for the coveted D. A. A. C, D-Major.

Having organized the McCurdy Badminton League with the confident
expectation that it would bring added
glory~ to Dalhousie and _ individual
benefit to the players themselves, it
grieved me very considerably to
be told by the Badminton Manager
that the Alumni members of the McCurdy team were not to appear on the
Dalhousie Badminton Team picture
in the 1938 Dalhousie Year Book;
further, that so long as we persisted
in playing a combined Student-Alumni
badminton team, it was useless to ask
the D. A. A. C. to award “D's” to the
Dalhousie students who played for the
McCurdy team in the Halifax City
Baminton League.

College Notes

She was standing by the rail
And looking deathly pale
Did she see a whale?
Not at all.
She was papa’s only daughter
Throwing bread upon the water
In a way she hadn't oughter—
That was all.
—''The Gateway.”
IF
If-you are prim and prissy and a proper
sort of egg
And shield vour eyes from obscene
sights, such as the human leg;
If you from beer and cigarettes have
guarded yourself well
And never at unguarded times let slip
a tiny “‘hell,”’
If you conduct yourself in ways that
are both nice and wise.
And avoid the machinations of profane, unholy guise;
And ponder hard at midnight over
dusty secret lore;
In order to beceme in time a sage myopic bore;
And grimly are determined to keep on
doing what you’ve done— |
Why, dammit, keep on doing it—but
you won’t have any fun.
—Argosy Weekly,”

 

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

D. A A. C. Meeting; [In This Corner |

(Continued from page 4)

member of the tennis team is now required to play four matches as a member of the team in any one season to be
eligible for a felt D. The second
amendment was to require that the
Tennis manager to earn a Gold D must
conduct a minimum of 10 tournaments.
The meeting amended this to make the
requirement 8 tournies so that the D.
could be earned in two years and.approve it in its amended form,

The trophies for Interfaculty sports
won this term were then presented.
The Basketball Cup to Law and the
Hockey Shield to Medicine. The Softball cup won by the Freshmen was not
presented.

The meeting then approved the granting of Gold D’s to the list recommended by the Managing Committee
which were to be presented later in
the evening at the Banquet.

Mr. Sam Balcom was then re-elected
Hon. President of the D. A. A. C. by
acclamation and warm tributes were
paid to him for his interest in athletics
at Dalhousie. by President Thompson
and President-Elect Sheehan.

In the light of such facts, it would
seem to the onlooker little fitting that
the Southern journals most prone to
ignore the blots on their own escutcheon
should be those most prominent in
their blatant denunciations of foreign
methods of rule. It behooves them
rather to look to themselves. ‘Cast
first the beam out of thine own eye.”

Some of the Badminton players
then laid before the meeting the material and spiritual needs of Badminton
but the meeting, anxicus to repair to
the banquet hall, could not see its way
clear to do anything about it and then
adjourned

Thoughts of the Week
Some Seniors are hoping that B. A.
doesn’t stand for Back Again.

Mellerdrammer
“Curse it Curse it.’’ hissed the villain, snatching at the girls waist.
“No, it ain’t neither,’’ she retorted.
“Tt’s a girdle.”

Modern Mother Goose

Little Jack Horner,

Sat in a corner,

Watching the dames go by

He spotted a beauty

And said, ‘‘Hello Cutie ”’

And that’s how he got his black eye

Commerce Cracks

“The girl went swimming with a
Commerce boy. The next day she
floated alone.

“You're like a promissory nete, its
an obligation but I have to meet you.”

Not qualified

“Are you a member of a college
crew?”

NO,”

“Then stop stroking me.”

Double Trouble

One Siamese twin to another—You
must have had a swell time last night.
I look a wreck to-day.

Is That So?
Burglar—Where have you _ been?
Accomplice—In a fraternity house.
Burglar—Lose anything?

Pardon Us.
Captain—Don’t give up the ship.
Passenger—I haven't eaten

one. |

  

DOUBLE
DELIGHT

finest roasted filberts
Jersey Milk Chocolate

A TREAT — ANYTIME

“iON BAR-DAILY

C.3713

eID IP ? 4

BEFORE BUYING
LUGGAGE or LEATHER GOODS

OF ANY KIND SEE

KELLY’S LTD.

118 GRANVILLE ST.

 

V 8 ro Tew

THIS TALE OF WOE

 

   
 
 
      
   
    

VV sust Founp our
OUR SORRY STATE

 

v“

 

 

  
 
  
 
   

 

ov, \/can't aFFORD
TO PAY THE DOUGH

  
 
  
  
         
     
  
      
   
     
    
 
         
     
 
      
 
       
      
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
       
       
   
       
         
     
     
      
 
   
     
        
 
   
    
 
        
    
    
 
       
      
     
     
    
       
 
   
   
  

Mee >

:
4
’
\
a

 

 

’
be
ir
!
;

 

—————— ee

fp

 

This is a direct invitation to you to attend the Dalhousie

Reunion which takes place in Halifax on August 16th, 17th and

18th of this year. It will commemorate the 120th anniversary

of eternal fame.

of the founding of the University by Lord Dalhousie, and the 100th
anniversary of actual teaching under Thomas McCullough, D. D.,

You will remember that in order to found our University,

Earl Dalhousie used monies from the Castine Fund for the pur
poses. These were funds levied by British troops during the
war of 1812-1814 when the town of Castine was in their hands.

this event.

On this occasion a monument will be unveiled commemorating
It is being presented to the University by the Government of Canada through the Historical Memorials Committee.

For this we are to a large extent indebted to Prof. D. C. Harvey,
Provincial Archivist and a member of the Class of 1910. The
unveiling ceremonies of this monument are in his very capable

hands.

We will also during the Reunion dedicate the new Medical
Library which should be built by this time.

Around these ceremonies the
will centre.
the Forrest Building to Studley.

rest of the Reunion programme

There will be a grand march of all Dalhousians from

There will also be Class dinners,

Class reunions, boat sails, golf and everything else to make the

Reunion a most enjoyable function.

Dalhousie has not had a

Reunion since 1929, so it is time that we should have a jolly

get together.

It is only by the union of past and present Dal
housians that we can create the college spirit which means so

much in an institution such as ours.
member the dates, August 16th, 17th and 18th.

I therefore, say to you reMake them

RED LETTER DAYS in this year of Grace and come and be

with us on this occasion.

Information regarding special railway farescan be obtained

by applying to the nearest railway station.

Committees have

been formed of Dalhousians in Halifax to look after housing, entertainment, transportation, parade, special guests, and a host

of other necessary things.

Halifax is a very attractive place to come to in the summer

time.
perfect summer vacation.

Add

Here may be had every attraction which goes to make a

to these this Reunion and you

will see that you should be here with us at Reunion time.

Come to Halifax in August
women other Dalhousians are.

and see what kind of men and

Further information can be ob
tained by applying to the Reunion Office in the Gymnasium

Building.

a ae

COMMITTEE LAYS PLANS _

“ _ t 4 . t _ i ‘ : &
- TO ALL DALHOUSIANS, YOUNG AND OLD, MALE AND
FEMALE:

glorious past,

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE

My privilege has been a fascinating one—to sit in the Alumni Office and
by turning the pages of the Alumni
list to watch the gencrations go by.
Each succeeding wave unfolds the
treasures of p-rsonalities once young,
gay, frivolous—just college students
as ourselves—now the moving tempo
of thought in our fair Dominion, in
act, the people who make the news.

In doing so, one cannot help but
catch a glimpse of the moving life, the
vibrating pulse, of Dalhousie. Our
our striding present.
Dalhousie, as we know, really is an in
stitution to be proud of.

This will be brought out more than
ever during the Reunion. For the reports already reaching the Reunion
Office foretell the largest gathering of
ex-students ever assembled on our
campus. On that occasion there will
be shown joyous camaraderie among
those who have built fame and fortune
for themselves and those who have
been content with a smaller lot; just
as once not so log ago they, like we now,
slapped one another on the back.

This to me is perhaps the greatest
appeal this Reunion can possibly have
for one still at Dal. From it we must
realize the living spirit to the name
Dalhousie. Perhaps then also we will
understand in some measure just what
responsibilities are ours to our Alma
Mater.

The programme should prove to one’s
desire for in it is packed everything
that the City of Halifax, the Province
of Nova Scotia and Dalhousie has to
offer in order to make it a gala occasion. Upwards of 2000 are expected

REMEMBER DALHOUSIE BY REMEMBERING THE|‘ &ttend. They are coming from near

REUNION.

. Yours sincerely,

JOHN S. ROPER,

Reunion Chairman.

 

Social Credit
Stand Is Taken

t
:

Sr

JAMES CURRY, M. A.
N.C. C. U.S. Delegate

A few days ago word came from Ot-tawa that the Sociai Credit Act of Ai-berta was unlawful. As had been expected it was declared ultra vires by
the Supreme Court of Canada. It was
a foregone conclusion that a handful
of apostles, even with far greater genius
and knowledge than the Alberta ministers, could not cleanse a system that
had been decaying for over a century.

The press around the world can be
depended upon to administer the last

‘rites to Social Credit with a great deal
of pleasure. Yet there are a few who
will view with deep regret the pitiable
end of a much-needed attempt to

remedy the lot of the army of unfortunate wretches damned by circum
stances to live and die in misery in a
land flowing with milk and honey.

Mr. Aberhart did not fulfill his promises but what Prime Minister ever did?
Have the forces of reaction achieved a

victory as glorious as they perhaps

think it is?

About eight years ago Mr. Bennett
and Mr. King were dead set against
relief but as time marches on we find
them both draughting unemployment
insurance. Relief, unemployment insurance, the dole, a national dividend,
(call it what you will), is rapidly becoming a permanent man-sized growing figure in the national budget. The
industrial Revolution still continues
and on one hand our economy demands
the reduction .of labour while on
the other it necessitates state assisance for ex-workers.

Only the Social creditors seem to
realize that it is our mechanism of distribution that has broken down. Are
there any other economists who recognize that credit (i. e. money) is the
life-blood of commerce? Whether
right or wrong in their remedy they
would appear to be the only doctors
who can even diagnose the disease.
In past ages the medicine man had a
famous remedy for all cases of sickness.
Leeches were placed on a patient's arm

| to suck up some of the ‘“‘excess” blood.

i o-day, economically, we are still in
that primitive age. Whenever we feel

 

Fine Reporter

 

 

ROLAND HURST

Above is our inimitable Roly.
We are sorry to say that he bids
us farewell after four long years of
service to Dalhousie, culminated
by that difficult job of initiating
the Freshmen into our midst.
He is a staunch supporter of this
paper, and in fact, is known across
the Dominion as ‘“‘Canada’s other
great reporter.’’

 

 

the first chill of a depression our banks
restrict the unrestrictable circulation
of the vital medium through the arteries
of trade. What an enlightened age
we live in!

How strange it is that when Social
Creditors offend the time-worn rag
called the B. N. A. Act it is a sacrilege,
but when Conservatives and Liberals
offend the same we change that constitution!

(Continued on Page 7)

and far—‘‘All loyal sons and true.”

There will be a superabundance of
entertainment for the primary purpose
of the whole affair is to reunite the Dalhousie family now 10,500 strong.
Dances, dinners, songs, sails and bonfires are the orders of the day.

The Reunion Committee have made
a specially low registration fee for students and tickets will be issued for individual items. If you are within
striking distance of Halifax, make it a
point to get in for as much of the progamme as you can.

Gordon K. Daley,
Secretary Reunion Committee

 

 

BACK TO DAL’S FIRESIDE.

Great preparations are afoot. Old
Dal is making ready for the big family
gathering in August. Plans are under
way to make the Reunion of 1938 the
finest and happiest the college has ever
had. Already we know that from far
and near many are coming and success is assured.

Those here before are coming again;
those, who have not attended a Reiunion, have heard from others the
story of the happy times had, the
princely fellowship, and the delightful
camaraderie which was everywhere.
The idea has caught on. Each succeeding Reunion bettered the one which
went before, and this year we look for
the finest of all because we will have
more old students than ever, and it is
the old boys and girls which make the
Reunion what it is.

Halifax has wakened and changes
are taking place. Old Dal has by no
means been asleep. The old red building still stands—lost today in a forest
of foliage and with fine medical buildings at its side. The Studley Campus
houses some ofthe finest buildings in
the land. Dal has kept pace with the
marching times, but while expansion
has been steady, the old traditions remain, old and new blended together
so that the oldest graduate feels at
home at once.

There will be interesting features—
the Parade, the erection of the Castine
monument; there will be very eminent

ee

When You Need
DRUGS

or any other Drug

You get better

MEDICIN

SERVICE and

at KINLEY’S DRUG STORES

    
    
    
 

ES PRESCRIPTIONS

Store Merchandise

VALUE

 

NN eee nn a

Letters From Committeemen

visitors; and there will be distinguished
personalities present froin among Dal’s
own sons and daughters. There will
be the many get-togethers. The old
and young will both be there; those who
knew Charlie and Eben and MacGregor and Archie and the choice
group of others who did so much to
make Dalhousie what she is.

We will miss dear old Dr. Forrest
and the rest who have gone on, but
those who sat under them will tell
again the story of the days when they
sat at their feet and the generation of
today will listen with bated breath to
the tales which have gone to the making of the tradition of exactness and
scholarship, which has given character
to Dalhousie.

We want every son and daughter to
come. It matters not how gray the
hair or how recent the graduate. A
royal welcome waits you, old friends
will greet you, and when vou come the
years will fall away, and we promise
you some of the happiest days you can
possibly spend. President Emeritus
MacKenzie will be there, and his successor, and from them and from all
you will get an old-time welcome the
moment your feet touch the city streets.
You will get and you will give—for
every graduate has his tales and his
memories, and above all, his friendships, the something not built into
stone and buildings, but which gives
life and color to them all.

Last Reunion one charming daughter
wrote she had six perfectly good reasons
why she could not come. Those reasons will now be pretty well grown up
and we hope this time to see her. Some
may have like or other reasons which
may stop them, but where it is at all
possible to come back to the Dal fireside, come and enjoy the happy time
yourself and add to the happiness of
others by your own genial presence.

George Farquhar
Chairman Publicity Committee.
“Alumni News.”

 

———

  
 
 

eda dia vl

PVA et)

SMOKING MIXTURE

 

 

Spruce Up!

It’s Spring!

Greet the new season in a freshly cleaned

SPRING COAT, SUIT, AND HAT.

Cousins’ Dry Cleaning restores freshness
and newness to any garment or fabric.

Colours are bright and clear again, spots

and stains are removed, shape and style is

restored.

FREE.

Minor repairs are taken care of.

SPECIAL STUDENT RATES

SUITS 65.—SPRING COATS .65.—HATS—.50.

 

COUSINS Limited

Master Cleaners and Dyers

 

Telephone Lerne 2323.

 

Only Five More Weeks To
EASTER

 

THREE EASY
WAYS TO PAY

Monthly
accounts —bills
rendered on the
25th.

20% down, balance payable

five payments,
every two weeks
Small down
payment,

ance ten weekly
payments. No

bal
service charge.
No. interest.
No extras.

 

 

Men’s SUITS

Personally selected suits in the
mew double or single breasted
models. Feature frabrics this
spring are Donegal and Herringbone Tweeds. Models and sizes
to fit young men and men who
feel young. Priced from—

$19.00 to $45.00

Men’s TOPCOATS

Step out in one of these new
spring Topcoats—Raglans, single
breasted slip-on, and smart young

men’s double-breasted fitted
coats. New fabrics are English
Loden, Scotch Tweeds, hand

woven Harris and Camel Hairs
A good coat from—

$20 00 to $50.00

Made-To-Measure Service

Our spring and summer 1938 sample swatches are here ready

for your selection.
Now down payment.

 

Spring NECKWEAR

Saxony wools in blended stripes,
checks and novelty patterns also
*“‘Shannon’’ poplins in a wide
choice of patterns. These ties
will give maximum service plus

smart appearance at
a very moderate out
laos Semel s..1) - 3 .,. $1.00

New Spring HATS

The ‘Streamline’, a new hat
for smart dressers, featuring the
snap brim with cap style brim,
skyline crown and bow to the
ee All fur felts in the new
metal grey shade. $3 95

A solid value at

a \doe Ce *

Get your new suit for Easter on order now.
For thrifty shoppers who want
the utmost in value we offer a range of suitings at ..

$24.95
Spring Shirtings

The new fabrics and style ideas
reflected in our spring shirt
range will make it a pleasure to
buy. Colwell quality will ensure
lasting service, and the values
are approved. Style note—ask
to see “Check Blends’’. ‘sky

line stripes’’ and ‘“‘The
Traveller.’’ A good

CHIT’ BO ois 6 oe ho $2. 00

?
Men’s GLOVES

No article of wearing apparel
will add so much to your finished
appearance as a new pair of gloves.
We recommend hand _ stitched

real chevrette, a velvet soft wash+ Bie leather in shades of natural,
rown or grey. $3 00

Per pair

o& 6.0) a Ba: éu4, 6 oe.

Men’s Early Spring SHOES

A smart new brogue style in medium toe, solid leather heel, med
ium sole, heather
Cor D, sizes 6}to 10}.
wear. Per pair

grain leather,

. .
F FEL 8 |S OT Se of 92. a6. E Ghiél er oe 6

: black or brown, width
An idea shoe for now Guaranteed to

a2 0 B.S GS) tre Pe. © te éie 6s 6 eu

$5.95

COLWELL BROTHERS, LTD.

“*The English Departmental Store’’
BARRINGTON ST.

HALIFAX, N. S.

 
   
   
   
    
    
 
 
  
   
 
 
  
   
  
 
  
  
  
   
   
  
   
   
   
     
 
   
  
  
  

: te ner g.4

a _Report OF College Seis

| March 10, 1938.

; 46 e Dalhousie University Store Trustees have requested that the followanienti of the Dalhousie University Stare for the fiscal year ended April

ao, 1988 Pe published.
Be mit 09%

aa 2 ‘i

Bs a 5 ‘

at

~— =

: _ Yours truly, — s
_. DALHOUSIE UNIVERSITY STORE.
per H. A. Renouf.
Auditors’ Certificate
We ge examined the books and accounts of the Dalhousie ‘University
a for the year ended April 30, 1987, and have received all the information
a ang explanations which we have requ a. A
aa aan _ In our opinion, the attached Balance Sheet is so drawn up as to exhibit a
_ true and correct view of the Store’s affairs, according to the best of our informaFe tion, the information and explanations given us, and as shown by the books
pga ie Store.
oa LLOYD & CO.,
"Halifax, N. S., Chartered Accountants.
penne 25, 1937.
. DALHOUSIE UNIVERSITY STORE

 

BALANCE SHEET
April 30, 1937
Assets
“Cash Ree i eae eons bao rwR da ei OS $ 59.04
‘Cash in Bank of Nova Scotia—Current a/c..$ 426.09
—Savingsa/c.. 178.27
—— 604.36
Inventory. «1.2.1. eee serene een eee ee ees 543 .36
Less: Res. for Deprec. of Inventory megie 54 .34
ont — 489.02
; -Investments—Bonds Ss ned dik ata MIS ic Catet adn « 500 .00
—Bond Premium, Ea arertek aisle 84 .37
. ) 584 .37
Accrued Interest Resivable cad ce Masters,» ha ote A eas 9.17
————-$ 1,745.96
- Deferred Charges:
_ Supplies on Fiano otis Pere ante sla 5 Sa ee hewis alee 608 vate 8.30
Fixed:
Equipment: s... aniye. ss BR gees Shah s week. 128 .60
Less: Res. for Depreciation on Equipment....... 27 .33
; 101.27
$ 1,855.53
Liabilities
"Current: ,
ee Accounts ee gore riatd PR iss. <i ees $ 80.38
SOME ANA BOL eg gh dais vie eiaige ole sais 20s 35 .87
$ 116.25
Sete asin at me meet ante ol sla ltaliat: G2 Fries odie Sool ee rea i 1,739 .28
$ 1,855.58
4 DALHOUSIE UNIVERSITY STORE
_ ERADIN' G & PROFIT & LOSS STATEMENT
EM te eK Year ended April 30, 1937
aa : Trading
Aas werd Cotes tie Male aed. eft LE EAR Uae eS bene $ 3,635.67
«Less: Cost of Saige of New Booka
“Inventory April 30, 1986...... ease ns $ 409.78
~ Purchases...........025. $ 3,099.04
_ Freight In & Express..... 69 .60
_ Excise SMR iene ai gionle Sos 27 .72
3,196 .36
| 3,606 .14
Less: Inventory April 30, 1987....... 548 .36
— 8,062.78
ore PGE OR MEW ROO A OE cals Oba onic ite se ete eens « $ 572.89
Sales—Second Hand Books... 2.2.0 cee le eee ee bee 351 .00
_ Less: Cost of Sales Second Hand Books—
OOM Shera iy tales Seger ales ied goes vt aye bee amas 315.25
Gross Profit on Second Hand Books.......... 2.0.2.0 eee e wees 35.75
Gitoss Trading Frofit.... 26... ee ee et ee eee eaten ees $ 608 .64
Profit & Loss
I RPMS OONEE Song Ta as ig se tarde eee oeley $ 608.64
. Less Expenses:
“oT a ate Be 2a oe a $ 125.00
eR AN SUNN cay aera | orang 2s Ly sig vie « eesb.e. 19.50
Telephone & Telegraph............. 27 .69
Stationery, Printing & Postage. ...... 35.51
General Expense. ii ee bee eee ee 3.30
UAE ORR E MIRE a es Pan h3 6d ek. de 40a 10 .00
Depreciation—Equipment........... 12 .86
—Inventory............ 32 .64
Amortization—Bond Premium....... 5.63
272213
hs Net TMM wk OPM Pan IS Ce irareis cleo wine's Vo Se oh des $ 336.51
| jy aa Interest Income........---- RECA imaee Oo Geely Aste wie hswinly meas WE BE" 30 .62
$ 367.13
8.48
358 .65
35.87

a ob. & 6 0010 6. @ 6’ ed 2.66.0 4 0a e'e © Oe 6.8 @ 0 8&8 Oo

E ae Manager’s Commission. .
A ee
Net reste transferred to Sirois ee ee we ee oe Bat he $ 322.78

DALHOUSIE UNIVERSITY STORE
Reconciliation of Surplus Account
As at April 30, 1937.

Balance April 80, 1986............0...--00cseeeeeees $ 1,547.91
Student BIDE is aii dis vn ke eK $ 50.00
ee Boats Pas «anime acs 40 .91
Wicca uz 23.00
Ot Et eE Creare 17.50
181.41
a. 7 $ 1,416.50
; Net Profit year ended April 30, 1987......... bats ick bad 822.78

$ 1,739.28

DALHOUSIE GAZETTE —

EO

oY Palos. Law Is
Explained _
By John MacDonald

C. U. P—The Quebec Padlock Law

is now almost a year old and so far
been invoked about fifty times. It isa

law which enables the Government of

Quebec to close any building or newspaper which “propogates’ communism.
The definition of Communism is not
included in the act but is left to the
discretion of the Attorney General.
(Mr. Duplessis).

The law is being used against the
political enemies of the Government
according to some points of view. In
Quebec it is evident that the Church
and the Government are very sympathetic towards one another and it is
even suggested that the Padlock Law
was passed after representations had
been made to the Government by the
ecclesiastical authorities. The Government is also using the law to fight
labour union organization in the Province,

The majority of the English-speaking people in Quebec are definitely
against the Padlock Law. It is reminiscent of the Middle Ages in England
when the Star chamber was the order
of the Day. On the other hand the
majority of French-speaking people
feel that the Government has done
something worth while, they associate
Communism with Anti-Clericalism;
and who speak or act against the Padlock Law are presumed to be in sympathy with the Communists and therefore against the Church.

Representations have been made to
Mr. Duplessis to have the Law repealed. They have been in vain. The
Quebec Government cannot back down
on its stand or it will lose political
prestige and it must not be forgotten
that there is a strong nationalist element in Quebec today which would
make political capital out of such a
repeal.

Thus there is only one other recourse | thing th

short of litigation, This is Federal

disallowance. It has been felt that
(Continued on page 8)
———9———_—

Gazette Standing |
(Continued from Page 2)

1 1/7; T. Sheehan, 14; G. Lea, 14; E.
Barnhill, 11/4; S. Pauker, 11/4; J.
Morrison, 1; J. Likely, 1; A. Nancekivell,
1; Anna Hirsch, 1 1/4; H. Veinot, 1;
H,. Reardon, 2 1/4; L. MacKay, 3/4;
R. Plummer, 5/8; L. O’Brien, 1 1/4;
Lola Harris, 1 1/8; W. Wright, 3/4; L.
MacHattie, 3/4; F. Barton, 5/6; B.
Graham, 1/2; F. Berkowitz, 1/2; Nancy
Lawson, 3/4;B. Scott, 1/4; R. Ash, 11/2
Lily Hirsch, 18/4; M. MacLeod, 4;
H. Mitchell, 3/4; G. Thompson, 1/2
C, Egan, 5/8; F. Day, 1/2; P. McLeod,;
2/3: D. Mahar, 1/8; H. Gold, 1/2;
E. Cragg, 14; R. Buckley, 21/4; J.
J. Curry, 41/4; R. Stubbs, 1/2; G
Firth, 1/2; Gene Morrison, 1/2; W.
Roy, 1 1/8; G. Collins, 5/8; Wilf.
Burchell, 4; H. Ross, 1 1/4; Marg.
Morrissey, 1/4; J. Grant, 1/4; D. Whit- |
man, 1/2; A. Becker, 1 3/4; D. MacKeen, 1/4; Jackie Cahan, 3/4; Evatt
Merchant, 214

Sats Ne re santa itd

Ain’t It Grand
(Continued from Page 4)

reference books, go to lectures, and
thereby make high marks to please my
parents 68 times,

In my spare time, which was plentiful, I attended 11 Varsity formal dances
11 of which were boring, 50 motion pictures, 3 of which were excellent, and
took out 19 different co-eds, 4 cf whom
were pleasant *companions, and 6 of
whom I wouldn’t marry to Adolph
Hitler. On 5,653 occasions I worried
about the future.

Soon I shall be Educated. Ain’t it
grand-—"‘The Cateway.”

Insist on getting
Donovan’s Beverages
including
Dublin Dry Ginger Ale
Donovan’s Orange Juice
15—different flavours—15

W.H. DONOVAN

45 Granville St. B-6821

 

a ae

    

Critic Criticized

The Editor,
Dalhousie Gazette,
Dear Sir:

T would like to commend to your attention the tone of last week's Gazette.
This I hold to be true, that a critic is
weighed by what he criticizes (‘‘Axiom Y” for further reference). If such
be so then I have a noble and weighty
task before me. Taking “axiom Y”’
as a law, I wonder if it might be determined scientifically what is the
Specific Gravity of our Drama Critic.
Without doubt his criticism of the play
of Friday, February 25, is Specific
enough and has its own peculia, gravity (but paradoxically it carries neither
wight or seriousness?) His pacificness would bring a glow of pride to a
warrior. His criticism to say the least
is helpful and constructive (byt should
be “left in school where it belongs’’)
When anyone presents before his critical genius “anything above the level
of dignified slapstick’’"—then is their
“theme trite..the offspring of a Divinity Hall’’—(Woe is me you will
drive me to theo,ogy ) His words of
reproof, to him that would profane
the sacred precincts of a playwrights
office, fall like the gentle dew from
heaven (therefore i. e., rather undiscriminatingly.) If the staging and acting
of last Friday night’s play ‘‘was satisfactory” it took coloured glasses to see
it—but our drama critic is most in
genious with such instruments. (We
only regret that he left them on when
it came to the theme and plot.)

I remain,
Yours to be criticised,
A Dalhousian.

In answer to the above letter which
contains some excellent ideas, we
would like to question the veracity of
his axiom Y which states, ‘that a critic
is weighed by what he critizes.”

Unfortunately ‘the position of Drama
Critie necessitates the criticism of every
at appears on the Glee Club
stage. If that material is poor the
critic has only one object in mind, to
destroy that with the most effective
destructive criticism in his power. If
that appears to. be harsh, as we surmise
you. do, we would suggest you consult
the works of all modern professional
critics from Shaw to Nathan including
Hunehe, Walkely, Atkinson, etc.

In defense of slapstick we would like
to point out that all notable contributions to the American Drama in the
past twenty-five years have contained
elements of slapstick. By slapstick we
gather you mean an element of vulgarity and commoness applicable to the
common citizen. Such being the case
we would ask you to consult the efforts
of Ibsen and see if perhaps a vulgar
theme may be treated in a lofty manner.

However, we would not say the effort
was above dignified slapstick but rather
much lower in that it was imbued with
a sense of maudlin sentimentality
which anyone who was in the least acquainted with the theatre would assure you was cheap, undignified and at

0 time approached a form which could

be called fanatic.

The “sacred precincts of a playwrights office’ you must remember,
dear sir, are in no way sacred. Anyone, so inclined, may critize a drama if
he feels the desire, but in fairness the
opportunity is given only to those
whose intelligence is at least equal to a
moron; tide G. J. Nathan on the subject.

Hoping we have cleared ourselves and
squelched you, we stiJl thank you for the
interest.

Drama Critic.

Spina bie ia kn
She: “Joe, give me the fly swatter.
He: ‘‘What’s the matter, there

aren’t any flies in here.”’
She: “I know it, I just wanted to

mash the potatoes.”
“The Sheaf.”

Student’s Patronage Appreciated

SHAVES HAIRCUTS
SHOE SHINES
—Good Service—

LORD NELSON HOTEL
BARBER SHOP

A. PUBLICOVER, Prop.

 

See een a

k=
ed

Mock Pestiaiient

(Continued from Page 3)

Order, Order,” rcared the Speaker as a

Page Seven —

A Fantasy
(Continued from Page 5)
The gaudy glitter of lights on a cold

big laugh revolutionized his hitherto] night always had the same effect on him.

austre countenance.

Mr. Dickey, leader of the Independents, the largest body in the house,
reproached the government for failure
to mention the abdication of the former king and the accession of George VI
in the Speech from the Throne. The
Prime Minister interrupted to remark
that it had taken place over a year
ago but Mr, Dickey informed him that
Parliament was in session for the first
time in two years.

Premier O’Brien accused the Independent Party of being like Christopher Columbus who didn’t know where
he was going and didn’t know where he
was when he got there. Mr. Milner
reminded the Prime Minister that
Columbus discovered America.

When the vote was called about
twenty Liberals gave a weak ‘‘Yea"’
while Conservative and Independent
Oppositions roared a _ thunderous
“Nay.” However, the Speaker, being a
little deaf in his left ear as a result of
prearrangement with the party leaders,
thought that the vote was carried.

Resplendent with tails and cane and a
dignity becoming his position, the Hon.
W. A. Burchell representing the Coke
Ovens, stole the show with a speech
sparkling with wit and humour.

Mr. Parlee sought information concerning the wheat trade but the Minister of Agriculture, Mr. Cohen was
equal to the occasion and bored the
opposition into silence by quoting an
abominable amount of figures.

On two occasions the Prime Minister
was guilty of speaking disrespectfully
of the Independents and attributed
their distaste for corruption to the zeal
of youth. He was reminded that there
is no fool like an old fool.

Liberals and Independents cheered
the Speaker lustily (if indecorously)
when he reprimanded some of the Conservative members “for making animal
noises.”

The second session was not the
equal of the first in brilliant repartee
but was marked by several spectacular
and drastic moments. Almost at the
opening the Prime Minister rose on a
point of order and appealed to the
Speaker about an article which had
appeared in the Gazette under the caption ‘‘Precedent Set By Dal Cabinet.”
The Speaker ruled it was a reflection
on the government, named Mr. Merchant, and demanded an apology for
the publication. The Gazette Editor,
however, refused on the ground the
article was true and declared with dignity that everything published in the
Gazette was always true. The Speaker then instructed the sergeant-atarms to remove the member fom the
house for five minutes. Mr. Baird
wrapped his huge arm around the editor
and he departed without a struggle,
Upon his return he was warmly acclaimed by Conservative and Independent members.

 

The latest Popular Music.

The latest Victor Records.

All Popular Magazines.

All Musical Instruments.

Radios in best makes.

Lending Library of latest
Fiction.

Framed views in Nova Scotia
by McAskill and Graham.

McDonald MusicCo.

40 SPRING GARDEN ROAD.

He felt himself to be a poet, a prophet
to whom the world listened with awe
and wonderment. He felt that he
could see things in the evenings, little
unnameable beauties, that could be
seen by no other living man. The intoxicating sharpness of the wind made
him feel that in God’s good time he
would be allowed to astonish the world
—the universe, with his wonderful
pictures.

He strode on through the winter
night sorry that each step took him
nearer home. He clenched his hands.
In those, he felt he had the power to
move the peoples of the earth, For a
moment he was a conqueror; not a
new Alexander, but another type of
leader. He was a man who could influence all the souls of men, and all the
souls of all the men to come.

He was home. He walked up the
path, stamping his feet on the verandah
to clean them of snow, He went
straight to his room, sure that this
time he would be able to put the
beauties that his mind had _ photographed down on paper. That he
would at least beable to make a negative of them.

He sat down at his desk to write.
Pen and paper_were at hand. He
picked up the pen and thought for a
long time. It was no use. He could
not transcribe his impressions. They
must stay locked up in his brain. He
groaned with the horror of it. All the
lovely thoughts that he, and he only,
possessed must stay locked forever in
the dark recesses of his mind. He
could not write, he could not speak, he
could not paint. He was incapable of
any form of expression. The full
meaning of his captivity dawned but
slowly on him. As it did, his brain
began to beat against his prison like a
madman against the bars of his cell.
The blood drained from his heart and
went pounding in his head. He threw
his head back and like that other
doomed man cried: “My God, my
God, why dost thou not deliver me?”’

 

Social Credit

(Continued from Page 6)

In a world that kneels so obsequiously
before Mars and Mammon we can not
be surprised that Social Creditors prove

unpopular. Their iconoclasm would
never do. The anathena of modern
capitalism must be their reward.

But let us keep one thing, in our minds,
Social Credit has not failed but, like
Christianity, has never been really
tried,

 

Eat Wisely
Eat Well

The Green Lantern

407-409 BARRINGTON ST.

 

 

 

New Clothes for Spring-
Smart suits and top-coats are arriving daily, colors
are newer and brighter, and well dressed young men
will present a gayer appearance than ever before.
Come in and look over our stock of clothing and fur
nishings.
shop.

It pays to buy at Shanes, the students’

 

Shane’s Men’s Shop

30 Spring Garden Rd.

 
 
    
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
   
  
  
  
 
  
 
  
  
  
  
   
    
  
  
  
   
  
  
   
     
     
   
  
  
  

ce, Pen Portraits |

=| Dal Hockeyists

e .

the. next! As Tiger custodian for a second yea.
© “Corky” has turned in some stellar performances this season and has been a
ie big factor in the recent drive which
*Y | carried the Bengals into the league
match | finals. eos

= : “Don MacGregor, Défence.
Gptgrce: ‘lis Don's third year of duty on the Tiger

, nts the Studley crew rear guard. A good worker and fast,
a ee: to F Forrests, he is a prolific scorer end one of the
£ arc Beet revenge for Tiger’ s most feared rushers. Showing

‘his versatility Don can turn in a fine
game at centre ‘when called upon.

Douglas MacDonald, Defence.
Doug played on four high-powered
‘St. F. X. squads before coming to
Dal this fall but this is his first year on
defensive work, A good blocker and
developing into a heavy checker he has
‘been a tower of strength behind the
blue line.

John Carroll, Defence. “Rotund”
has not played the full season this year,
his fourth for Dal, but played his usual
steady game when he did appear. A
hard checker and blocker Johnny
scored his annual goal several weeks
ago.

Ken Beer, Defence. Ken played a
wing position last year for the Tigers
but of late he has been moved back on
defence and has since been bouncing
opposing forwards, in all directions.
His speed and powerful shot combine

   
 
  

 

convincin; rx
z2 ine. a sees? hurling
no no problem ; at all the Forrest men
in r attling | loose hits into the corn
om the start and forged steadily |
ad dur ng the full 2} innings. This

ry accounted: for Forests lone 3

3

va The umndatic’ “lass ‘display folRe iit towed immediately. These boys under
a ‘the girection of Maurice Lipton gave a
very y display working on the
High: ines and— Parallel Bars. This
was: followed by some Tumbling and
the” . ‘display doer with an effective }

ete pues ni

a The: Stugley vs. “Bebest Basketball
mA match came next with Studley ekeing
a8 - out an 18-15 decision after a torrid
e - battle. ‘Play i in the first half was fast
_ andeven the lead changing hands twice.

 

nt: Bate 2

met

Day al Vadim. “Corky”? Koretaky: Goal |

This | fe

oe, Sees change over Forrest hada single
ei Et at margin but as soon as. play re
bn <a - any aes yen

    
  

    
  
  

oid eee to fight off the desperate

| tudley jumped | out in front |"

with defensive ability to make him an
all round player.

James Mont, Centre. This is
Jim’s first year with the Tigers as in
tat and. keep just far
1 e front to win. This placed
on even ern hie Forrest “act

    
  
   
  
  
  
 
   
 

juries kept him on the side’ lines last
season. Dangerous on attack and
equipped _ with a. poke check which
\ keeps. opposing forwards in a submis
..| hardest workers on the team.
; Jack Buckley, Centre. This has
| been one of the best of many seasons
|for ‘the “Little Master.” Fast, aggressive and experienced Jack has
played steady hockey all winter and
finished up the season in an extended
scoring splurge which did much to
carry the Tigers into the finals.

Guy Carleton ‘‘Pooh’’ DeWolfe.
Left Wing. ‘‘Pooh” has been holding down a left wing berth on Tiger
games for three years. Fast, hardworking and rugged ‘‘Pooh”’ has played
some stellar hockey in spite of injuries
which kept him out of action early in
the season.
|. Harvey Conn, Captain ana Right
Wing. Out of action through illness
for most of last winter. This is Harvey’s first full year in a Tiger uniform.
With experience both in right wing and
centre positions, Harv is a heady
player who knows what to do with a
scoring chance.

George Collins, Left Wing. George
came to Dal with hockey experience
at Loyola in Montreal and points west.
A hard worker with plenty of ability
George has been a big help during the
season’s toughest going. He will spare
anyone a half a minute to tell them all

  
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
        
 
  

1 Over the line
E trouble thereby

a? ta Aves with a will and
vic Big tieaty of action in both heats.
; was a no decision bout so both
ators left filleq with honour.

ay _As soon as the floor was cleared the

Jumnae and Co-ed Basketball teams
trotted out to provide ten minutes of
FAs eee: one-sided play, The Co-eds
ve — evigently in better condition and
ae -helq the Alumnae scoreless while tosse ing i ind points for themselves, A brief
* - exhibition of the manly sport of ping' me pong followed immediately as a very
_ fitting preluge to the final battle of
ithe afternoon, “

The last engagement satel to be
F iw crowning glory of the programme
oes, 4 and ‘kept the enthusiastic gallery aleral ternately on its toes anq scattering for
safety as the whirling mass of players
: and flying sticks surged into the corners
Paths ‘It was a wilg

  

it

i a

   
   
    
    
    
   
  
    
 
     
   
   
 
   
  
   
     
 
   
 
 

2 ig
=

“and against the walls. about Copper Cliff.
and even battle which went scoreless | George’ Corston, Right Wing.
until rahe last few minutes for the| After playing fine hockey for the Tigers
simple reason that the boys haq more five years ago, George nursed injuries
_ important things to attenq to than scor- |" the side lines last year. This season
Pag ‘As the end of play approached] he has come back to display more of
‘ £3 anda e decision was necessary to decide |! his previous form and play a large part
the shiel, d competition the goal tenders in this year's successes.
y ere removed and then the counters John Mullane, Right Wing.
ame q uickly. Stugley scored first Johnny has been on the Tiger squad
hid then again, this last bitterly pro- for three years and is one of those use‘testeg b y For it. In & furious attack ful utility men who can be counted on
ey made it it 2-1, buat Stugley soon add- to play good hockey at any time.
da ‘i Lx They. each: acore d again James Graham, Right Wing.
ne terme’ seconds of Hes gong which Jimmy has been a right wing star on
d the Stugleyites victors 4-2 ang Bengal teams for three years but this

   
  
 

HI} 380 BLOOR ST. W.

 

sive frame of mind, Jim is one of the |

TRANSLATIONS

“We Can Supply Any English Translation Published for All Languages
ee tay OR WRITE FOR PRICES ON YOUR NEEDS

THE BOOK EXCHANGE REG’D.
Specialists in New and Used Text Books

   

I rrest F Rivalry | Captains Of Tiger Senior Squads
Be eecuncy

BILL COOK

had the honour of skippering the
Tigers’ Rugby squad this year.
Their victories were few but they
lacked nothing of that fighting
spirit which makes teams great
even in defeat.

 

 

CY MILLER

Tiger Basketball Captain led his
team through a season marked
by some fine victories and some
heart breaking defeats, but char
acterized throughout by fine basketball.

 

I Can Be Wrong

- By Roland D. Hurst
LET’S LOOK BACK

And so another year is just about
over. Another vear which has been
just as colourful and just.as momentous
in its athletic glories and its athletic
flascos as those which preceded it.

Red Payne’s blatant and bloedcurdling cries have been hushed to a whisper.
For many of us this is a sad affair—we
realize that the soprano-like voice of
this red headed Peter Pan, this symbol
of Dalhousie athletics, has been heard
by us for the last time.

We now turn to more foreign fields.
We pause in the locker-room before
trotting out to enter the game of LIFE.

In a few years we will look back at
it all and a faint smile will originate
with a puckering of the lips. All the
issues that we strove and fought for will

seem trifling and incidental. We will
remember the countless D. A. A. C.
and Council meetings at which we

sinoked quantities of cigarettes, when,
garbed in the cloaks of ‘campus states
year only saw action in one game.
In it, however, he flashed his old time
form.

Kent Irwin, Center. Better
known for his abilities in other sports,
Kent turned in some sparkling eéxhibitions for the Tigers this year being
fireless on attack and a good defensive
forward.

Bain Munro, Sub. Goal. Bain
has filled the thankless position of subgoalie for the Tigers this year. He
only saw action in one game this season
but had the satisfaction of turning
back Tiger sharpshooters time and
again in practice scrimmages.

Vince Ferguson, Coach. A stellar
performer in the ice game himself, Vince
has been a great success as Tiger
Hockey Coach this year. Equipped
with an intimate knowledge of the game
he worked hard’ to whip the Bengals
into the form which carried them to the
league finals.

Lyon Kaufman, Manager. The
managerial worries were shouldered by
Lyon, last year understudy to Tom
Sheehan, and he carried through the
difficult task of ministering to a dozen
hockey prima-donnas with conspicuous
success, .

Red Payne, Property Manager.
Red has been the hockey equivalent
of bat-boy for the Tigers so long that
even the players are getting used to
him.

  

   
  

  
 

TORONTO, ONT.

     

manship’ we labelled one another as
the Hitler’s, the Mussolini's and the
Napoleon’s of campus life. We will
laugh out loud when we remember all
this.

But, it was great while it lasted,
We ali had fun—

And there’s no harm done.

1937-38

But to look at the year—

You know, it was a funny vear.
Dalhousie didn’t win’ much; in fact,
now that I come to think of it ‘Did
Dalhousie: win anything-—- I don’t
think so.

But what matter, think of the fun we
had.

And too—
The football team was good.
The hockey team was good—in
fact the hockey team were the scrappiest crowd that ever dented the twines
(and they dented them lots of times.)
(If someone is calling for a poet laureate—look at that last line.)

Rear nr a naan eee eccenn eee ere aan enn ee eee ee ee TS

“MUNRO DAY SPORTS

Boxing

The Mount Allison boxing squad

lifted the Maritime Intercollegiate
boxing crown from St. F, X. in the
annual Intercollegiate. championships
held in Sackville on Wednesday. A
Dalhousie team of five fighters
won third place witha total of five
points. The Sackville collegians earned
9 points to win ang N. S. Tech ang St.
F. X. each collected 6 points to tie for
secon qd.

Only one title rests with Dal this
year but all the men made good showing
in their bouts Earl MacDonald, Dal
112, earned a decision over Cusack, 110,
of St. F. X. in the Flyweight final to
become and lose title holder. In the
heavyweight Jerry Liebowitz, Dal 175,
went right to the finals only to be qdefeated by Fletcher 180, U. N. B. by a
technical knockout, Henry Ballam
135, Dal won his elimination and semifinal bouts but lost a decision to Mannon 135, Tech inthe final. Lewis and
Smith lost their elimination bouts in
the Middle Weight and Light Heavy divisions respectively.

Senior Game

Playing their final game of the season, the Dal Tigers dropped a 38-28 decision to the invading Acadia hoopsters
at the Studley gym last week. Play
was very even in the first half but the
Wolfville squad definitely outclassed
their opponents in the final session.

The basketball team despite the efforts of Asst. Coach Shainhouse, were
quite O. K., and we firmly believe

March, 18th, 1986

eae

Padlock Law

(Continued from page 7)

Ottawa has been signally negligent in
allowing the law to remain on the
statute books, It was announced by
Mr. Lapointe that the law would be
considered after the decision of the
Supreme Court had been handed down
in the case of the Alberta Legislation.
This case has now been decided and the
Federal Government is in a Dilemma.
If it disallows the Padlock law it will
be faced with an hostile electorate in
Quebec. If it fails to do this it will
antagonize certain sections of Englishspeaking Canadians, particularly in
the West.

Of course the obvious answer is to
make a test case of the issue and to
bring it before the Supreme Court.
This is difficult for two reasons, in the
first place owing to the provision of
the Quebec Code of Procedure it is
virtually impossible to take an action
against the Quebec Government without its consent, and in the second place
nobody with to fight

enough money

has been attacked under the padlock
law.

 

NOTICE

Big Dance at Shirrefl Hall
Saturday, March 26. Orchestra in attendance. Supper will be served. Charge 50c

Watch Bulletin

 

Charlie Steers will do big things next
year.

Inter-faculty sport was mighty hot
and interestin’.

The D. A..A,. C,
standard.

Every once in a while one comes upon
an individual who has the respect and
admiration of all he meets.

Such a man is the Major.

The man in the street calls him
Major Logan—students speaking of
him refer to him as ‘Lucky’—football
fans in Nova Scotia think of him as
‘the grand old man of football.’

Last week the D. A. A, C. awarded
him the coveted Gold D.

was up to its usual

If evera man deservesit, Lucky does. °

 

25 Years a

STUDENTS’ BARBER

Patronized by Doctors and
Professors

—__——_

LADIES HAIR BOBBING
RAZOR HONING

JACK MITCHELL, Prop.
41 SPRING GARDEN RD.

SS SS esses ene ea

 

Bi 0

=

 

 

Then . . . after you’ve made your
choice of fine wool or fancy patEATON’S can
capably and carefully hand-cut and
make your suit to your individual
Styled, too, in the
manner you prefer and which suits

terned suiting

measurements.

you best.

EATON

Make YOUR Choice from
Hundreds of Fine Wool

   
    
 
     
        
 

MADE TO

Suitings

Two-tone
Striped Worsteds

They’re always in favour and
at EATON’S there is a multitude
of ground shades and overtone
effects from which to choose!

Multi-check
Worsteds

Modifications of the bolder glen plaids of other
seasons. Smart shades
and blended tones.

Herringbones

Spring!

checks.

@

We have HUNDREDS of
iS suitings to show you .. .

drop in and see

them.

“T.EATON C2...

    

“ees CLOTHES

Favoured for
Reversed
herringbones with
double-tone over
   
   
  
  
  
    
   
    

More Tweeds!
Boldly patterned

with colourful
qldoks. Suitable
for either sports
or everyday business wear.

Suit or Topcoat

$94.50

Others at $29.50 and
$37.50
These clothes may be pur
chased on EATON’S
Plan if you wish, Ryden

 

 
